u2017-03-27-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 11th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Attila Gelencsér and Nándor Gúr will be notaries of my assistance. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work. Dear Parliament, Europe was again under attack. Last week, March 23, 2017, four people lost their lives in London, and more than 40 were injured by a terrorist attack. We have never let or let violence determine our daily lives. Hungary is committed to the fight against terrorism. Our goal is a Europe that can protect the lives of European citizens and our common values against all threats. The country sympathizes with relatives and the people of the United Kingdom. I ask the Honourable Parliament to express our condolences with silent standing and to pay tribute to the memory of the victims. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the victims with a silent standing.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, In 2015, the National Assembly declared the day of commemoration 27 March, II. The day of the birth of Ferenc Rákóczi, paying tribute to the prince and to all those who fought under the flags decorated with a slogan for the country and for freedom, with a view to Hungarian freedom. The child Rákóczi was ripped from his family early to make a faithful Habsburg subject, but when, as an adult, he faced the disastrous economic, social and political situation of the country, he was soon at the forefront of the independence struggle. It was an important stage in the war of freedom when 310 years ago, at the Parliament in Targu Mures, he was enlisted as the prince of Transylvania, and a few months later, at the National Assembly in Onod, the looting of the Habsburg House was announced. In the midst of complex European power games, the struggle for freedom seems to have failed in the absence of financial resources and a serious army. At the same time, a compromise was reached that was only comparable to the 1867 compromise. During the next period, the dynasty managed Hungary as a non-subordinated area, only together with the Hungarian order, taking into account Hungarian interests. ANNEX II Without Ferenc Rákóczi's struggles, our national existence and independent Hungary might have been lost forever. Ladies and gentlemen, The ideas of the Rákóczi Freedom Fight continued to live in the traditions of future generations. In 1848-49 free troops put the prince's name on their flag, and the country rang from the Rákóczi march. After the defeat of the war of freedom, Lajos Kossuth, sharing the fate of Rákóczi, was himself forced to emigrate in Turkey. A century later, on October 25, 1956, in Kossuth Square in front of the Parliament, dozens of innocent people were brutally murdered in front of the prince's memorial. Ladies and gentlemen, This space, the main square of the nation, is a spectacular symbol of the heritage of the freedom-loving Hungarian people. The statue of Rákóczi, Kossuth and the memorial site of 56 remind us of three of the greatest freedom struggles in our history and our nationhood. Let us remember, then, with respect on this day, too, II. Prince Ferenc Rákóczi and followers of his spirituality. Thank you for your attention. Dear Parliament, Today we begin our work with speeches before the agenda, followed by questions from 11:00 to 5:00 to 13:00 to 20 minutes, and from 13:20 to 14:00 to 20 minutes for immediate questions and answers. Then we will continue our work with a political debate from approximately 14.20 minutes, and we will conclude the Parliament's meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Mr Nándor Gúr, from the MSZP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address: Billions are drawn from public employment. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-27-1	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In the course of six or seven years, over 600,000 people have been chased out of this country. If their promises had been fulfilled, six to seven years ago they would have made 30 to 40 percent wage improvements, then obviously many would have stayed home because of their roots and would not have left this country. I have to say, even the people with the lowest income have been robbed. It was stolen because, as an example, people with minimum wage earned HUF 60 200 in 2010, they received this net, and in the five years that followed, they obtained less value in purchasing power. But it wasn't any different for the public. From 50 to 60 thousand public workers were made 220 to 230 thousand, the public sector was expanded, but unfortunately, this was not combined with meaningful, yield-producing activities. Many people's self-esteem has been trampled into the mud, while they have made 47,000 forints out of their net wage of 60 200 forints; in an unscrupulous manner 47,000 forints, which is 53,000 forints. If you think that the aggregate inflation rate in these seven years was about 20 percent, then today it is worth 40-42 thousand forints. In Hungarian: one third of the value of the public-employed people's wages was stolen by this two-thirds government. They see these people as statistical subjects, and that's the worst. And now, in 2017, what are they doing? Now they say we need to cut the numbers, reduce the resources. In 2017, some HUF 40 billion will be lost in the first half of the year, while the number of employees will be reduced by some 50,000. They'll use the money for training grants, they say. Training grants - we know how you do these things: by drawing suns and clouds, which in the labour market is not a great chance for those who are trained there. Parametries are being made so that people under the age of 25 can't get into public employment because they have other programs. In the last seven years, we have seen how and in what way - no way and in no way. They're doing a parametrization that's subjective. They say that anyone who is likely, I say, to be able to enter the labour market on his own should not be involved in public employment. How, how do you decide? Presumably, subjectively; whoever they want is pushed out; whom they don't. Professionals are not allowed into the public employment system. They say they can't go in for three months, which means there must be three unsuccessful broadcasts to go in at all. What are they saying? In three years, you can spend up to 12 months in public employment. Do you know the Hungarian reality, the Hungarian countryside, the small settlements, the isolated settlements, where there is no job, where there is no job today? And in the meantime, in the big cities, you set up a rental program, funded it, provided grants? They scared the hell out of me! Then how do you think these people will survive if they are excluded from everything? I have to say that the goal that you have in mind... - that recognized refugees, those with protected status, those under a fixed-term lease contract should be included in public employment, and that cultural heritage and castle renovations should have public employment - you know, in the context of private castle renovations, which is not in the public interest - or that prisoners released from the framework of prison execution should be placed in public employment, and that they should also improve public catering through public employment. [[11.10]] Over and over again, they come up with social cooperatives, those social cooperatives where 1600 billion forints were robbed from the system. You know, you know, within the framework of the program, you may also know the name of our fellow Member Flórian Farkas, but also the Lord Voldemort. I must say that what you do is done not precisely for the sake of the people, but against the people. They even want to take care of people with reduced working capacity of HUF 28 500, while producing false statistics both in terms of employment and unemployment. Only man doesn't matter to you. It's just that man doesn't matter! Of course, some people matter, mates and pereputty. Now, we are going to build a world, my fellow Members, which is about everyone, which means everyone's Hungary, one in which people will earn the basis for a decent living, and they will be able to live their lives accordingly. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-03-27-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-03-27-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You've touched on a lot of topics, let me react briefly. If less resources are needed for public employment, it also means that more and more people are finding their calculation in the market sector. Well, I'm glad that you're already accepting that public employment is a good opportunity, and you've been violently attacked before. I would also like to remind you that 700,000 more people are working in Hungary than in 2010, while unemployment has doubled under left-wing governments. You talked about the people living in less modest conditions, but you forgot that the minimum wage has risen by 15 percent and the minimum wage by 25 percent. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Gross.]] The taxes that you have not voted for have been reduced, and these have allowed wage increases. Real wages increased by 10 percent compared to January last year, and this tax reduction, and therefore wage increases, will continue. By the way, I find it a little discredited that people who chased hundreds of thousands of people into currency loans traps and doubled their overhead costs are concerned about the poor. To touch on another subject, I listened to his speech with the hope that, above all, he would clarify whether the news that Dopeman's team supported by the MSZP was attacking an activist of the liberals. We know there's a lot of fighting going on on the left, but we didn't expect you to be able to kick each other. [[Dr. László Varga: That was unreal!]] Let me ask you this: if you behave this way with your own allies, then what can voters expect from the left? [[Zoltán Grimlock: Would you like to talk about community service?]] If I'm just looking at what's been out there, it's a lot of terrible things. A campaign has recently been launched, let me refer to this, and it is clear from this that you are rethinking a drastic tax increase. Now, I'm not going to go along with the fact that the socialists' anti-middle-class campaign was born in the Rákosi era, but more importantly, those who want a tax increase, even under their government, want a tax increase. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] They were obsessed with the racquetball. I would like to remind you that László Botka, who you are proposing to be Prime Minister, voted for the registration tax, environmental charges, energy tax, the tax package of Draskovics, the VAT increase, the household fund tax, the property tax, not to mention the tuition fee, the visit fee, the 13th month pension, and the election of Ferenc Gyurcsány as Prime Minister. [[Nándor Gúr: Talk about 27 percent VAT!]] All this proves one thing very much, that nothing changes on the left, after Gyurcsány and Bajnai there is now László Botka [[Dr. László Varga: You're afraid of him, aren't you? He's about to beat Orbán!]] Who is a tax-raising and pension-reducing socialist himself, so the left would resume where he had already left off. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, [[An uproar in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] If you're so obsessed with raising taxes, let me suggest a few people to the taxpayer. If you want the rich to pay, if I understand correctly, you want to tax Ferenc Gyurcsány, who draws hundreds of millions of dollars a year. [[Anita Beringes: Meg Butcher Gunnery.]] Salute a special tax on Gábor Simon, for whom hundreds of millions have landed in his foreign account. [[Nándor Gúr: Tell us about Orbán, Lőrinc Mészáros and his friends.]] Tax László Puch or László Boldvai, who marched on the hunger march while living in a 1050 square meter villa [[There's a constant murmur in the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] or tax those who might have stolen a third of the 400 billion metro investment. [[Dr. László Varga: Doctor!]] But before you tax them, tell them their names, because there's a whole country waiting for them. Finally, tax László Botka, who did not clear himself in the Seviép scandal, and even denied that the Szeged municipality had a contract at all. Their tax revenues, which I mentioned, their tax revenues, are also necessary because, if we understand correctly, you want to distribute free money in certain regions without any work being done. If you have such an idea, first of all, we ask you not to think of the working Hungarians as those who will pay for it. If they want to bring back the aid-based society, they must have their own moneymen pay for it. I think the rich should pay, too. We wish you good luck in organizing this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-4	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, President Bernadett Szél, the LMP Group also applied for a speech before the agenda:. How prepared are the Hungarians according to the government? It's an address. You have the floor, ma'am.
u2017-03-27-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Last week, the National Election Committee rejected the LMP's five questions on the expansion of Paks and the use of nuclear power at all; it is fortunate that there are other six in there that they can think about. In any case, I would like to say that the decision did not surprise us at all. We're prepared for a long legal battle, lawyers facing lawyers on one side, because we know exactly that the government will do everything, but it will do everything in the world to cross the Paks referendum. However, I would like to point out that we are not talking at all about the end of the battle, but rather about the beginning of the fight, with regard to the decision of the NVB. When we asked the first questions, we made it very clear that if necessary, we would go to the wall, and even beyond that, not in a dark, smoky room, Viktor Orbán and Vladimir Putin would hush down the issue of Paks enlargement, but the Hungarian people should have the right to give their opinion on this issue. Those times, I hope, have been completed in this country, when state leaders have made decisions over the heads of Hungarian people that will affect even the future of our grandchildren. If you sweat out three arguments at the National Election Committee or at all kinds of institutions funded by the government, in which you try to justify why Hungarians have no right to interfere with questions concerning their own lives, then we will make 20 other arguments, which in turn proves that we have a very good right and that we must have the opportunity to express our opinion. So we expected, as I said earlier, that the first questions would be thrown back by the NVB, but we were also surprised by the insolence and transparency of the argument they made. The National Election Commission with Fidesz members was like a prominent student who rejected all the arguments of the governing parties in the explanatory memorandum on why a referendum cannot be held in this country. They might as well have written that argument at the Prime Minister's Office or even in Moscow, and it would have been the same. In addition, the NVB did not even make a secret of seeking an argument as to why it did not have to file a referendum, even though it should have worked on how a referendum could be properly supported in this country. We can see that the NVB has tried to comply with this activity with Fidesz, a majority of its members, rather than with the Hungarian voters. This coercion leads to ridiculous arguments such as the fact that a nuclear power plant that will be operational in ten years' time cannot be decided in a referendum, since the validity of the referendum is only three years. [[11.20]] I would like to say that, on this basis, a referendum could not have been held on the Budapest Olympics, since the three-year period would have expired until 2024 and, as we know, the question has passed, and why it has not been implemented is more your fault and not the will of the people. But the most outrageous - and the title of my agenda I gave - is that the NVB's argument has been repeatedly revealed that the issue of Paks enlargement is too complex and complex for the Hungarian people to decide. I would like to point out that, according to the May Other Politics, there is no question in this country that is too complicated or complex for voters to be able to form an opinion on it. And I would like to warn the pro-government representatives that governments that speak that way look down on Hungarian people, view Hungarian people as idiots; these governments tend to fail sooner or later. I deeply agree with Viktor Orbán, but with Viktor Orbán in 2007 who said in the debate before the social referendum - I quote Prime Minister - that nobody in Hungary has the power to decide what they want to vote on instead of the people. Unfortunately, however, Viktor Orbán has since turned himself out, and the whole Fidesz has also turned with him. You are acting exactly like the Socialist Government at the time. Well, we see what's become of the socialist government, and that's what's waiting for you. You can't think Hungarian people are stupid, Fidesz can't afford that! The arrogance and arrogance you allow yourself with regard to Hungarian people, I think, is a minimum knife opener. I would point out that the LMP will continue to fight in order to be able to put in place this referendum that is more important than anything else. I understand that after you have exhausted EU funding, you will have to have the corruption money to maintain your power, but the Hungarian people will not allow you to do so, because I think that there is a limit to stealing. I would also like to state that the Hungarian people can be sufficiently prepared when there is finally a social, professional and political debate in this country about what we think about nuclear energy, whether we want to live with it or not. I am pleased to see that the result of this initiative is that we cannot open a newspaper or turn on a TV without the issue of the use of nuclear energy and renewable energies. We've already managed to achieve that. You didn't even want to allow that. You wanted Viktor Orbán to ignore this question. Please make it clear that you agree with the NVB that the Hungarian people do not understand this issue. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Or do you think a referendum should take place? [[The president's ringing again.]] Make it clear that you're disdained...
u2017-03-27-6	Congresswoman, your time is up. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-27-7	... the Hungarian people in the Fidesz or not! Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2017-03-27-8	Dear Parliament, I'll ask him who he wants to answer on behalf of the government. [[Applause from the pro-government benches. György Szilágyi: One and a half million per speech!]] State Secretary Szabolcs Takács wishes to respond on behalf of the government. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-03-27-9	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Looks like we're gonna have a lot of debate on the Paks Nuclear Power Plant. You have given us guarantees that LMP intends to maintain this debate in the long term. We are, of course, ahead of this debate. You have mentioned, Congresswoman, that this agreement has been squashed in a dark room. I think this is a typical example of something that cannot be trashed in a dark room, because I find it difficult to imagine a more transparent decision than the Paks decision, because the democratically elected Hungarian Parliament gave its consent on three occasions. I believe that the Parliament represents the will of the Hungarian people, and I do not think that the woman representing it will argue with me either. May I remind you and the honourable people that, in 2009, Parliament had already taken a decision in principle, which was supported by almost all Members, so that we could begin negotiations. Then, before 2014 and after 2014, there was a law on whether or not we could continue the investment and the investment negotiations. So there is a strong mandate given by the national Parliament. I can't think of anything stronger than that. But if that wasn't enough, then there's a much stronger one for the European Commission. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] the extremely complex, comprehensive and fully transparent mechanism through which this project had to be accepted. It has passed a very difficult test by the European Commission and has the support of Commissioners who are trying to guarantee the basis for the European Union's functioning, both in terms of competition, public procurement and the environment. This project is fully supported in Europe, not only in Hungary. When Congresswoman says that the Hungarian people do not want this investment because the government has never been transparent in front of them, she has not actually told them what is behind the investment, then you are actually saying the same thing to half of Europe, because the nuclear-renewal debate you are talking about is a debate at European level. At least half of the Member States of the European Union have very strong social support for the use of nuclear energy, so this is not a Hungarian speciality. The government has always taken into account the authority given to it by the Hungarian Parliament, but above all, we have taken into account the interests of the Hungarian people. I agree with you that this investment will determine the future of Hungary in the long term, and there is no debate between us. There is a debate in the omens, because I think that everything the LMP supports would be a vision of a future where we could only obtain energy with a completely uncertain source and background and very expensive energy for the Hungarian people. If this project were not implemented, Hungary's dependence on gas would be much higher than at present after 2025-26. So it's a capacity-building project, but we've said this a lot, and we're going to say it a lot more, every time we need it. If we could not achieve Paks II, then two things would be damaged: on the one hand, Hungarian people would not have access to energy as cheaply as they do now as a result of the reduction of the rent - so either we can preserve the benefits of the reduction of the rent or we cannot preserve it - and on the other hand, not only the Hungarian population, but also the companies that are very important for the Hungarian economy would not have access to cheap energy. How does LMP intend to ensure Hungary's competitiveness if it cannot guarantee cheap energy for businesses? Thus, on the one hand, there is a reduction in costs and on the other hand economic competitiveness, i.e. the cheapness of household and industrial energy. You are constantly producing renewable energy. In Germany a few years ago, following the nuclear disaster in Japan, a decision was taken to perspectively transform the German economy from nuclear to renewable. By the way, EUR 24 billion of state aid was granted for this. What do we see now? It means that there is currently 36 forints in Hungary for a kilowatt energy and 90 forints in Germany. I'm asking how the LMP would finance the difference. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: What about German wages?]] I'm not talking about wages, Congresswoman. I'm talking about how much energy costs. In Germany to HUF 90 and in Hungary to HUF 36. How would you finance the difference? That's the question you have to ask. On the other hand, on several occasions, the European Commission has put faith in nuclear energy and has the competence of the Member States to define the energy mix. Hungary is interested in an energy mix where we will also use fossils, nuclear and renewables in a perspective manner. And one more question in closing, Madam President: I would like to ask how the LMP would meet the climate protection objectives without nuclear energy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-10	Dear Parliament, [[Nándor Gúr: Five minutes of speaking time!]] Mr. Messenger! [[Nándor Gúr: Thank you very much.]] Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, KDNP:. Worry and hope at the birthday meeting also came forward before the agenda. I give you the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2017-03-27-11	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, On 25 March, in Rome, the leaders of the Member States of the Union signed a declaration. This remembered the event 60 years ago, when a declaration was also made in Rome on 25 March 1957, which later led to the establishment of the European Economic Community. What's in this signed statement? There is, of course, the unity of the Union. True, there is also a multi-speed Union, but let us make a difference. We cannot accept two-speed; multi-speed is a complex issue, and I think this is also an opportunity for cooperation in Visegrád, for example. Of course, migration has also been mentioned, and what is welcome is a strong emphasis on the protection of external borders. It is about increasing employment, security policy, which is a big issue in Europe today, and, of course, competitiveness, which can determine Europe's economic future. [[11.30]] Let's play with the idea of what it would mean, let's say, for the next 60 years, to think back to our offspring about the age-changing events in the 2010s. Obviously, there would be two issues: the situation of the EU and the issue of migrant flows. Even in this declaration, it is important for us to protect the external borders, which gives us hope, since not only doubts but also hope can be expressed in this declaration. As I said, the situation of the Union will certainly come to light in a short time. There are two directions for us to strengthen the process of renewal or disintegration. If it is a renewal, then we must think about rapid and effective decision-making and decision-making, because the Union is not able to do so today. We need to think about protection, because the issue of security policy is a key issue today, especially after the island country has left. We need to talk about economic growth and the development of competitiveness; and I would add that the weakening or shrinking of the decadent worldview, which unfortunately concerns some of the EU's countries today, society. The second question is whether we will succeed in stopping the migrant flood in these 2010 years, saving our culture, or, when our descendants look back at this period, they will say that that is when Europe gave up its country and delivered its citizens. But if I have already mentioned the issue of migration, it is not enough to deal with, even if it seems boring to many. So far, we have dealt with the political side of self-defense rather than what self-defense means, and perhaps we have also talked about whether there is a great interest in relaxing Europe. I think, if not in a speech before the agenda, but we need to deal more with the human side, how the well-being of Europeans affects this migrant flood, the impact that African poverty has on this, and the impact that persecution in the Middle East has on it again. And if we compare these, perhaps we should make the sacrifice that the citizens of Western civilization must make, as soon as possible and as far away from our borders, so that we can serve the purpose of staying in the homeland. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Szabolcs Takács wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2017-03-27-13	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor again. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, two days ago the Heads of State or Government of the Member States of the European Union and the leaders of the EU institutions signed an important document that once again, on the anniversary of the Roman treaties signed 60 years ago, gave faith to the unity of Europe and the vision of a common, stable and positive future. The economic agreement concluded 60 years ago in Rome created the foundations of today's European Union. The objective of the contract 60 years ago was for Member States to create a common market in which goods, persons, services and capital can move freely. For 60 years, European leaders have wanted to base European unity on the preservation of peace, economic and social development, raising the standard of living and cooperation between strong nation states. Now, 60 years later, after the British exit, in the course of the Brexit self-reflection or reform process, I think we need to preserve the principles of foundation and the results of six decades of integration, such as the Schengen system, internal freedom of movement, the four fundamental freedoms and cohesion policy, in order to further strengthen Europe and become competitive again in the international arena. This is why it is extremely worrying that the European Commission, together with certain Western Member States, wants to limit the freedom to work and provide services, and to visualise scenarios that anticipate amendments to the contracts which the Commission would be in the process of complying with. On the Hungarian side, we think that protectionist measures, restrictions on the free movement of persons, or border controls restored at the Schengen internal borders should be taken in the strongest possible way. We believe that the enlargement of the Union in the Western Balkans must also be kept on the agenda, because the stability of the region is an essential European interest, and that EU accession must also be the strongest guarantee of lasting peace and security in the Western Balkans. We also see that the document signed in Rome is, in a sense, forward-looking, since it states that the free interoperability of internal borders only works as long as we protect the external borders. Today, almost everyone sees this, which is not in small part, I think that Hungary's success, the success of the Hungarian government's extremely consistent and consistent policy. However, we must be careful not to draw too long conclusions from such a document, as we see that in Brussels, the European Commission continues to make proposals for the resettlement of migrants, for relocation. So this fight is far from over. The document is a good starting point, but we still have a lot of debate ahead of us. The declaration signed by the leaders of the Member States and the EU institutions on Saturday therefore gives faith in the free movement of citizens and the protection of the EU's external borders, the document is an acceptable basis for further negotiations on the future of the European Union, but we believe that everyone must follow the principles set out in it, and we must not allow progress in each area to lead to a step backwards in the acquis already achieved. We would like to see the enlargement process going forward, especially with Montenegro and Serbia, and then with the other Western Balkan countries, which, in addition to development, can increasingly be a guarantee of security today. More speed is already present in the European Union through the euro zone or the Schengen system. We are therefore ready to accept that if other Member States wish to move forward between themselves, this is what we call strengthened cooperation, which may be suitable for coordinating national specificities. On the Hungarian side, in line with the joint declaration of the Visegrad Four on 2 March, we can support the development of enhanced cooperation in one area, with the participation of different groups of Member States, while respecting the conditions laid down by the EU Treaties. Our country is interested in a strong euro area, so we do not want to prevent it from deepening, but it is important, both in terms of currency union and in terms of future cooperation, that no Member State should be discriminated against on this basis so that they can participate later in enhanced cooperation, on the basis of their own free will. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-14	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr János Halász, Fidesz Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech on the title of our national independence. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-27-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In recent days, there have been further indications that one of the biggest threats to Hungary in addition to immigration is the minework of migrant organisations operating from Soros support. [[11.40]] These organizations are attacking Hungary. If they have to, they're gonna embarrass us, they're gonna take our money. The judgment of the Court of Strasbourg on the punishment of Hungary is a good example of this. This judgment not only goes against common sense and EU law, but also reveals that Soros organisations can make tens of billions in migrant business. In this case, the two Bangladeshi migrants who were rejected after the Alien Police Procedure were represented by the Helsinki Committee, supported by György Soros. We also know from their statements that it was not even the migrants who came to them, but the Soros organization that contacted the migrants to use them in the lawsuit against Hungary. The Court of Strasbourg ruled that Hungary should be compensated for more than HUF 3 million each, and the Helsinki Commission, representing them, should pay HUF 2.7 million as a suing cost. This means that only on this one trial, the Helsinki Committee, representing migrants, would earn HUF 2.7 million if Hungary paid this penalty. If Hungary is sued for each rejected or alien police procedure, then the 15 000 migrants concerned and this 2.7 million amount will mean that the Soros organization, the Soros organisations, could earn more than HUF 40 billion in migrant business. It is therefore clear that Soros organisations take advantage of migrants and migration, abuse the situation of migrants, and make tens of billions. This makes it even more understandable why the Soros organisations are so violently attacking Hungary's immigration policy. We can remember that when we began to negotiate laws on the legal border closure, the tightening of the legal border in this House, these organisations immediately attacked this proposal. When we accepted this proposal here in the House on a Tuesday, there was immediately a statement against it. When the competent EU Commissioner indicated that he would come to Hungary to ask questions on this subject, they immediately welcomed and applauded this visit. These organisations are unfair, and they represent the interests of migrants rather than the interests of the Hungarian people. Such is the judgment of the Court of Strasbourg: it is unjust and unacceptable. We therefore ask the government to attack this judgment, and we must not only take more stringent measures to stop immigration, but we must also take action against foreign agent organisations operating from Soros grants, which, in addition to wanting to influence Hungarian public life, would make even ten billion people in migrant business. It is therefore important to ensure transparency for foreign-funded agency organisations. We are about to submit a bill that serves this, transparency. We would like to hold a five-party discussion on this. We look forward to the support of the other parties, because it is in our common interest that this transparency can be achieved. Hungarian people rightly expect us to take action together against such cases and against migrant flows. We must protect Hungary, we must protect the Hungarian people, we must protect the Hungarian interests. We ask the government to do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-03-27-17	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You are right that the decision of the Strasbourg Court is an outrageous judgment, which shows well what it is like to have a hair-scrupulous coalition between smugglers, immigrants and so-called defenders. The circumstances are particularly outrageous if we know that Hungary has rejected more than 10,000 applications and immigrants' worth since 2015, so if similar lawsuits were brought, it would cost the country some 40-50 billion. This is the burden of migrant business. Otherwise, we're not the only ones with similar scandals. In Catania, Italy, the local Attorney General suggested that the financial resources of immigrants' organisations should be examined. So he has also confirmed what the EU Border Protection Agency has said openly about: some organisations called civil society use their activities to help people smuggle. Under these circumstances, we have the EU Commissioner for Migration Policy. He is the one who said earlier that Member States that do not meet the immigration quota should be held accountable. It is fortunate that we had a referendum in the autumn, where 98 percent of the people rejected these plans. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: It was invalid!]] These few examples show why this issue is relevant and why it had to be included in the national consultation launched this week. I would also like to say in this House that the government's consultation will address six issues. There will be issues in which the government has a clear position, but successful national interest enforcement also requires the support of Hungarian people. The government expects support for those who consider the protection of borders to be the primary priority for those who would not let taxes, wages and wages out of the hands of Hungary and those who want clearer, more transparent relations with networks funded from abroad. Speaking of which, one of the main people of the Soros network gave an interview today to one of the great portals, where he said with a noble simplicity that he thought it was pointless to ask 8 million Hungarians about these cases. Let me ask you here in front of the House: who should be asked, if not the people concerned? How can these so-called defenders then refer to democracy? By the way, the same people also attacked the autumn referendum. Dear House, Since we are talking about issues affecting national sovereignty, it would be very good for opposition parties to take a stand on these issues, not just on immigration policy. For example, we expect the resolution in tax policy because we know that the left is on the verge of raising taxes. For example, we expect a resolution from Jobbik because they supported a proposal in Brussels a few weeks ago that would take powers away from Hungary and the Member States. Well, look what turned out to be the exchange beetle, which has become a couple that hasn't been burning an EU flag so long ago. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: Which one? And which proposal is this?]] One Commissioner, the consultation is about issues that concern national sovereignty. We will act by every means available against the creation of a first- and second-class Europe. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, put in Paks. That too is sovereignty!]] We want a strong Europe that continues to build on nation states [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] and respect their diversity, their will. Otherwise, the reason we raise our voice against bad decisions is because we are interested in what will happen to Europe. Dear House, The Heads of State and Government met at a summit last week. This was the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Roman Treaty. There are two important points in the adopted final document. On the one hand, the first of the four priorities for the future is to strengthen Europe's security, including with protected borders. It is also stated in the final declaration that EU leaders are obliged to hear citizens' concerns and to take into account the views of national parliaments. Since we do not want anything else, it is high time that these goals were finally reflected in the actions of EU leaders. At present, participation in national consultation is the best solution to force this. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-18	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Mirkóczki, Member of the Jobbik Group, also spoke before the agenda, with his cover name Fidesz. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-27-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I asked for the floor today because I would like to talk about a problem that has been unresolved for 27 years, the currentity of which, let alone does not decrease, is getting stronger. That is why I happen to want to talk about the inexploration of the state security past and the tasks ahead of us. Jobbik has recently tabled a bill which, once and for all, after 27 years, would be able to reveal - the proposal itself - and at the same time close this huge moral debt in Hungary, for which you are at least the number one responsible for the past government cycles. [[11.50]] I would also like to stress that this proposal is not a fantasy-based bill that we or someone have come up with, which is naively approaching, that we submit, that you accept or support, and that everything is resolved, and that there are no other parties in the background or in other ways, which have been replaced by compromises, of which so many have been born in the last 27 years. The draft legislation that we have presented is based on the translation of a country with a similar historical fate, which has been well-functioning for 20 years. Specifically, we translated the legislation on the Institute of Polish National Remembrance, its creation and operation into Hungarian and adapted it to the Hungarian legal order. I would like to stress that Poland introduced this law in 1998; 20 years ago. You, not just 20 years ago, but to this day, are unable to produce any meaningful results in this regard. I would also like to stress that Poland based on this law the purity of its public life, which has been burdened with the crimes of former Communism and the past of state security, which all Polish citizens and all Polish politicians are so proud to see today, and thanks to this law, for example, Jaruzelski and his 8 associates stood before the Polish courts on the bench of the accused in 2008. You guys can't show that in the bud. The problem is that you are only anti-communists in words, you only reveal the past of state security in words, and you see it as organized only in words. The exercise is quite different. Although it has been established - and if Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will reply, I presume this will be his number one actuary - the National Remembrance Committee, which you consider to be the Hungarian equivalent of the Polish Institute of National Remembrance. I would like to emphasise and anticipate that this page does not mention it, as the Committee of Hungarian National Remembrance is not comparable at any level, which is a prison meeting compared to the daily practice of the Polish Institute of National Remembrance. Your bill practically guarantees the unexploration of the past of state security, guarantees that nothing will ever be revealed, and guarantees that no one in public life can be excluded on this basis - based on past crimes - and that they can continue to fulfil political or economic functions. I would also like to emphasise that the Fidesz-KDNP policy, which seeks to define or condemn the relationship between the communist regime, is very deceitful and very hypocritical. You spend hundreds of millions, even billions - I might add, or rightly so - on a series of commemorations of the victims of communism, but all of this serves nothing more than to allow you to say hypocritical and meaningless speeches in an imposing environment, under imposing circumstances, as if it were done. I would like to stress that, for example, if anyone goes into the Polish National Memorial Institute in Poland, for example, any Polish citizen, especially a journalist, anything about anyone who has been involved in the state security past, they can get it right away. In Hungary, even those involved receive incomplete files only in anonymized form, and this is what the researchers complain about. I would also like to stress that Szilárd Németh spoke out recently, because he found that the reason why there is so much corruption in Hungary is so great is because there are still a lot of communists and it is the communists' fault. Well, I think it was a Freudian slip. Yes, the communists in your ranks are very thick, whether we look at the economic lunar yard or the political lunar yard. In terms of corruption, they prove themselves day by day. But we're gonna help you with that. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] If you support the proposal to: [[The president's ringing again.]] It is soon to be decided that they can prove that they are anti-communists not only in words but also in actions. If they don't support it, they'll strengthen what they do. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I also gave the title to my speech: the past of state security. Cover name: Fidesz. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-27-20	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás wishes to respond. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2017-03-27-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, the influence of the pre-1990 party state system is long-lasting, and the pre-1990 system is a dark spot in our history, making people impossible, making people crippled, but it seems that the repercussions of events after 1990 also make people or try to destroy them. While we know very well that in the years before the 90's and the 90's, the party state tried to do all it could to free itself from later accountability, so that it could be freed from any trace of its activities. And by destroying or making impossible files containing the preceding data in such volumes and to this extent, making it very difficult, they made it difficult for this period of history to be truly excavated and shown in every detail and proved in every element of history. That, in itself, I think it would be amusing to say that the single party of Parliament, as well as the members and leaders of the single party of the change of regime in Parliament, is accused of cooperating with the Communist Party or acting in the interest of the Communist Party of State. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: This is who you are!]] Anyone who knows the stage of history when the period before the change of regime or the period around the change of regime was obviously not like that. Obviously, a search for identity is when someone did not participate in the change of regime, but would like to appear as a political party that he has anything to do with anti-communism or the change of regime. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: Sorry I was born in 1978! Dóra Dúró: And Tasnádi? And Martonyi? There's a lot of noise in Jobbik's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The discovery, presentation of documents, publication of documents and the searchability of Communist pro-state crimes is a process for which the Parliament has done a great deal. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] We can now also talk about data recorded on magnetic tapes, which, although still has its encryption and secret rating, has not yet been analysed, but the National Remembrance Committee, which has been tasked with [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.]] the systematic exploration of the mechanism of the operation of the communist dictatorship, the members of the committee, the staff of the Historical Archives of the State Security Services, established a working group that processed magnetic tapes. This work, this scientific processing and exploratory work have resulted in magnetic tapes becoming accessible and researchable. However, it is also a fact here, unfortunately, that the full assessment of the value, the complete exploration, cannot be done, because the tapes cannot be restored, they are damaged. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] However, the working group concluded that the registers only partially allow us to identify those who cooperated with the State Party at the time, and that the Agent Law could function for them. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Are there any Fidesz among them?]] Ladies and gentlemen, The government has decided that the secret service magnetic tapes will be taken over by the archives. The archives must receive the file by 30 June. The transfer of media under the management of the Constitutional Protection Office will take place until the beginning of July 2017, and the necessary conditions, both legal and financial, have been established. Research of these data will be possible. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-22	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to present the list of speakers after the agenda. Mr. Messenger!
u2017-03-27-23	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Márta Demeter, independent; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Sándor Bodó, Fidesz; Attila Tilki, Fidesz; Péter Csizi, Fidesz; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; István Ikotity, LMP.
u2017-03-27-24	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:59 p.m., we will begin to discuss questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. When do you intend to settle the wage voltages of non-peducating but tertiary-skilled workers? It's an address. Mr László Csakács has the floor.
u2017-03-27-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The civil servants' and government officials' salary funds have not changed in the last nine years, and many people have come to me. In vocational training centres, there are many people who are not teachers, but who have a higher education degree for an educational centre, and even after five, 15 or even 30 years of employment, they earn less tertiary education than a young beginner. The salary of non-graduating, non-tertiary graduates who require mister's forgiveness or even trained work may also exceed what they earn, with a higher education degree. [[12.00]] The problem is not how much the new employees earn, however, but that your wage policy does not necessarily value those who work in educational institutions with higher education, not as educators, but have been working there for a long time and are trying to stand on the ground and do their job. We believe that the current wage policy does not take into account either educational attainment, employment relationships that can be considered for classification or the nature of the job. We believe that you have a job to do in this, and we have a job to do, because we have been contacted, so we have presented a resolution proposal to lift these wage tensions, and we will also ask Parliament and the Fidesz fraction to oblige the government to resolve this tension, order the government to resolve this problem. From here, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State whether, on the one hand, you will support this proposal for a decision - we have identified a problem, we have presented it to you, we ask you to support it - and on the other hand, when are you planning to settle the wages of non-educator workers in the education sector. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-03-27-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-27-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The real wage tension in the public sector and thus in education was caused by it in 2010, honourable Member [[Dr. László Szakács: in 2017! They just came to us.]] that, on the one hand, you took a month's wages from those working in the public sector - it was a very high-voltage step - and on the other hand, that the workers were being sabotaged with very high taxes and were taken away in a very large part. [[Dr. László Szakács: Let's talk about 2017. Did you hear the question?]] the taxes and contributions from their wages. Not only did we want to remedy this tension in these areas, but we have moved on [[Dr. László Varga: Answer the question now!]] We have managed to achieve, through tax reductions, that, with an average income, if a person is to have a child, he does not have to pay taxes or contributions. Then we launched one of the biggest wage-raise programmes among teachers when we gradually increased the wages of teachers by 50 percent from 2013 until this year, with the 2012 decision. [[Dr. László Szakács: Talk about 2017.]] You didn't raise the teacher's wage by 50 percent, you reduced it by 8 percent; it caused tension, and this offered teachers an opportunity to make progress. [[Dr. László Kács: Come down to Komlo and explain it to them.]] From September 2015 we moved on to this, as we extended the higher benefits of the pay table to those who had a pedagogical education, but not necessarily employed them as teachers. From 1 January this year, we introduced a 7 plus 3 percent wage increase for the directly assisting staff. 7 percent is due to everyone, with an average of 10 per cent, and a 3-percent framework that, depending on performance, results in a wage increase of more than 10 per cent than those placed on the table, but guarantees at least 7 per cent to everyone, on average 10 per cent. Thus, those who work in schools have a higher education degree, they directly assist in the educational work, in all cases they were able to move forward, so it was not a pay cut, as it was in your time, but a salary increase, honourable Member. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-03-27-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister's Office: å Do we understand each other, Minister? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor.
u2017-03-27-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Today, not only the informal language of Hungarian youth, but also the language used in formal communication, is constantly simplifying and becoming uniform in content. Of course, the process is not entirely new, but it has accelerated in recent years. On the 200th anniversary of the birth of János Arany, we are about to say that without separate dictionaries they do not know, as well as XX. To interpret the words of our poets in the century. Moreover, human relationships with previous generations cannot be developed with content, because the channels of the new generation are much more built on signal communication, and fast-changing technology also requires faster language change. All of this inevitably affects community relations, evacuating them, for example, making it more difficult for them to talk face-to-face. The strategy for addressing the challenging situation would be developed and consistently implemented by the Hungarian Institute of Linguistic Strategy, which was established in 2014 for the purpose of the care and development of the Hungarian linguistic heritage, in a tangible and evaluable way for society. However, although the Government decree, which contains encouraging objectives, has been in force for three years, so far neither the Institute nor the Government has been able to produce any tangible results to address the urgent situation mentioned above. There is no way to see the resolution on this matter by reading through the website or programme points of MANYSI. It is difficult to understand why the radical change in communication between young people is not treated as a priority. It is incomprehensible why they have not yet carried out surveys of the phenomenon and have no idea of how to deal with it. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State what concrete steps the government is taking to reduce linguistic impairment. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-27-30	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-27-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and On the one hand, allow me to thank you for your question, which gives me the opportunity to talk about the results of the Hungarian Institute of Language Strategy so far. I think that we also absolutely agree that, indeed, simplifying language is a process that carries serious risks to the Hungarian language. The Institute of Language Strategy has basically tried and taken action in three areas. One is also to look at the international challenges that digitalisation causes, for example, through Hungarian and Hungarian, in terms of simplification, how, how, as an international trend, and how, using digitalisation as an instrument or as a positive trend, to interpret this as a reversible process. We believe that the establishment of the National Institute for Linguistic Strategy in 14 supported a number of objectives, including the timely identification of these processes, which will enable action to be taken against this. On the one hand, in the field of textbooks, it is no coincidence that a colleague of the National Institute of Linguistic Strategy and the Hungarian Institute of Linguistic Strategy participates in the compilation of textbooks, and also in the committee that does the work of the National Council of Textbooks on how to support communication over several generations and the understanding of previous generations in this young generation. Another important question is how, while we are talking about cutting red tape, we will be able not only to put more rules around the necks of Hungarian citizens and members of the Hungarian nation, but also to do so in a meaningful way. Therefore, within the Prime Minister's Office, we have started a work in which we show openness to any initiative that serves precisely how the Hungarian administration, the language of bureaucracy, can truly be understood and understood by ordinary people. Let's be honest, we who are sitting here in Parliament cannot always easily interpret a law or a bill. Therefore, the initiative that you have taken up and supported, I think, is in line with the direction of the National Institute for Linguistic Strategy. In cooperation with the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, a strategy must be developed that gives a reassuring picture and future in the long term that the Hungarian language has not only been and is, but will also be in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-32	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, representative of LMP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development:. What will happen to the lower rural road network in 2017? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-27-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to take this opportunity to wish you good luck at the Magos General Assembly; it's rumored to be a great party this weekend... [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2017-03-27-34	Congressman, please stick to the agenda.
u2017-03-27-35	Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for the opportunity to ask. I am interested in what renovations the rural road network can expect, as there is a HUF 150 billion road renovation in the 2017 budget, of which only 1254 km of road can be renewed. This is worrying because the length of the national road network is over 31,000 kilometres, out of which 23,000 kilometres are the lower road network. According to László Tasó, former Minister of State for Transport Policy of the Ministry of National Development, we learned from a written question, a 568 km of road network was renewed in 2016 with HUF 69 billion of budget resources. We can talk about very small proportions, which means that 10 percent of them are not planned to be renovated on an annual basis. So obviously, the rural infrastructure that, in addition to the centralisation you set up, would require entry to the various district centres, the central hospital, there is no chance that substantial progress can be made. [[12.10]] Obviously, this budget planning is a problem overall because the 444 kilometers of first and second-class highway, the remaining 124 kilometers of back roads, are very, very few to a one-year renovation level. At the moment, it seems that all the renovation strategies are merely the lobbying power of elected Members of Parliament, and it does not seem that there is any strategy for the country what will happen to rural people, the rural road network, rural transport. I would look forward to your respectfully reply as to whether there is any idea of how there will be more resources for this, how the Hungarian rural road network will be renewed. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-03-27-36	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-27-37	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as you say, the task is significant, and it is not the last week or the last eight, not even the last thirty years, it is an 80-100-year road construction and road network development problem. Mr President, you know very well that a significant part of our rural road network was based on wagons at the time, and that they have been prepared for a burden of 1.5 to 3.5 tonnes in the last 40 to 60 years. It's got 40 to 60 tons of vehicles on it today, and it's ruining it. This means that despite spending year after year increasing money on these roads, road degradation is equal to or greater. So the task is great, and you're absolutely right about that. For this reason, we spend significant amounts of money capable of our opportunities to develop roads of 3, 4, 5 digits: in 13-14 it was 34 billion, in 16 it was 69 billion in the context of the complex road renovation program, which made it possible to repair the 560 kilometers mentioned by you. In 17 we already spend 100 billion forints on this, with a total of 44 billion forints to renovate side roads within the framework of the operational programme of territorial and urban development. We have a five-year operating and maintenance agreement, so we have a concept. The value of this is HUF 400 billion. I would also like to emphasise here that we would have significantly more opportunities if we did not have 110 billion PPP costs each year, which, unfortunately, is indeed the result of the past eight years. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mihály Balla, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. Mr Mihály Balla has the floor.
u2017-03-27-39	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Sitting on both sides of this horseshoe, I'd like to come up with a slightly different topic, just like road network development. In my constituency and in the county of Nógrád, major sections of the roads 21, 22 and 23 have been renovated for more than 33 kilometres, resulting in improved availability of several micro-regions, reduced travel times and increased service standards for road transport. In addition to laying out the necessary thickness of asphalt, bus stops were renovated, trenches, benches, passers and bridges were repaired. In the sections between Rétés-Salgótarján and Rétés-Salgótarján, residents of the settlements could see that in order to improve the comfort and safety of transport, the traffic relief islands were renewed in Endrefalva and Szalmatersen, and new ones were built in Érszekvadkerten and Salgótarján. Several sections of hull prisms have been installed, signs and barriers have been renewed. New asphalt was taken along the route 22 between Szécsény and Szécsény, Sjjfalu and Kishartyán, and from Endrefal to Karancsság to Sjjfalu, as well as in the Salgótarján and inland sections of the main road, which all promote the quality of transport in our region. Dear Secretary of State, In the county of Nógrád it is essential to further develop, renovate and expand the road network, as this also contributes to improving the quality of life of the people living there. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State what further subsidies and improvements are expected in Nógrád county, perhaps in the case of Highway 22. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-27-41	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, His question is in line with the former, both of which show that the maintenance and development of the Hungarian road network, including the rural road network, is a primary state task. Last year, in the framework of the refurbished program, 560 kilometers of main and side roads were renewed worth HUF 69 billion. In the county of Nógrád, a total of 23 kilometres of investment was carried out on the ten sections of highway 22. This year, some HUF 100 billion of renovations are under preparation. The government is expected to decide on the necessary resources in the first half of this year. On Highway 22, we plan to renovate two suburban and two internal sections for a total length of about 7 kilometres, and the project list also includes the renovation of a bridge. The operational programme for territorial and urban development is available for the renovation of the back roads from EU funds, with an investment worth HUF 44 billion at national level. In 16 the State concluded an operating and maintenance contract worth approximately HUF 400 billion for five years to carry out the management of the national road network. Thus, as I have answered the question of the Member before you, we are convinced that the road operator is able to carry out the management tasks of the existing national road network in a more predictable way than before. Thank you for your attention and your question. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-42	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Józsa, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister for National Development:. Not only is there a European standard in passenger transport, but also rights? It's an address. Congressman István Józsa has the floor.
u2017-03-27-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In passenger transport, it seems not only that we are not approaching European standards, but the government's decision to increase the distance between Hungary and European standards seems a bit hasty. On 17 March, a government decree was published in the Hungarian Gazette, which suspends, inter alia, the scope of passenger rights contained in an EU regulation and guaranteed there. Passengers' rights in connection with outages and delays will be deleted in accordance with European guarantees, as a result of which, without other regulations - I can imagine other regulations that are more prudent and more suited to domestic conditions, but are not at the moment - transport companies should no longer be obliged to compensate passengers or refund the ticket in case of delays or overbookings of more than 120 minutes or in case of cancellations. So today, companies have no obligation to do so, no re-routing for a new flight, no refund for a ticket in the future, no unnecessary waiting for hours, or those who have failed to travel. Please reassure me, Secretary of State, that this will not remain so, so that the possibility will be regulated for all those who would use accessible information, on which flights they can travel without a refund, and that no one in Hungary will be able to travel without compensation, who will not be transported on the Vola without his own fault. So I would very much ask, Mr Secretary of State, that if one is abolished, it should be replaced by regulation appropriate to the Hungarian population. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-27-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[12.20]]
u2017-03-27-45	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There has been serious progress in rail and bus transport, but also in local transport, in recent years. In addition to the modernisation of railway tracks, new vehicles have been acquired, the quality of public transport has been improved and increased by the schedule of suburban systems and by the compression of flights in local transport. Just to make sure that my fellow Member is aware of the degree of performance, only in Budapest the BKV transported 1.5 billion passengers, and the number of stops is 4663. So both network density and supply are of European quality in Hungary. The EU regulation you mentioned had to apply from 2013 and indeed Hungary, together with 12 other Member States, asked for a derogation from some of the rules of this provision, which Hungarian companies were not able to fulfil with sufficient certainty at the time. The exemptions are indeed contained in the Government Decree. The exemptions were granted for four years and expired in 17 years. The government examined which of the exemptions the domestic bus companies could fulfil. As a result, in March this year, the Government decree you referred to increased the number of cases not covered by the exemptions authorised by the EU Regulation. Thus, the rights of passengers, contrary to what the Member said, have not remained, but have been extended. At the same time, it is clear that the primary priority for the government in transport is therefore, where possible, the annual review and abolition of all the immunity rights which the Member has rightly objected to. Thank you.
u2017-03-27-46	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Why do they not hear the voice of the people of the Watch? It's an address. Congressman Tibor Bana has the floor.
u2017-03-27-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, People in the Watch stick to their homeland, love nature, and carefully cultivate their traditions. For many centuries, human and nature, nature conservation and farming have been together in harmony with each other. Unfortunately, in recent years, I have heard more and more complaints from the guards, which has happened during my recent visit to Bajansenye, Hungarian szombatfa, with me and Kercasomor. As a Member of Parliament who feels responsible for the region, I also keep in contact with the Guards, so I can tell you that I have received countless complaints about the operation of the National Park of Őrség. The people there see that national park operations are mostly about business and rags, and that they have a say in everything, making the lives of the locals miserable. Overregulation, centralization, excessive fines - these are the characteristics of the day - to - day days of the Guardian. The interests of the guards are completely out of the way, bound by their hands. Many of the leaders of the National Park of Őrség are not local, so they cannot understand the thinking of the people there. Farming typical of the Őrség, the system of family peasant farms, has been completely blocked, almost disappeared, while other aspects have become more important. Don't get me wrong, I'm not talking about the existence of the national park itself, I'm criticizing its inadequacy. After all, it was the guards who created the possibility of creating a national park in this beautiful landscape, because for many centuries they had protected nature and built and built their environment. But now they feel humiliated because they see that their opinion is multi-annual. I have been on the side of the people over the last few years trying to gather information from as many sides as possible, and I have now come to the conclusion that I must speak up, raise my voice against these maladministrations. All the people of the Watch want is to continue their traditional traditions, to do their job, and to continue living in the normal harmony with nature. Dear Secretary of State, Will they hear the voice of the Watchmen, or will they continue to ignore their opinions? Can you see that there is a need to change the approach so far? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-03-27-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Zsolt V. Németh will answer the question. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-27-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, A worthy answer may be given to a substantive question, but unfortunately this was not part of this circle. I've had decades of experience saying that if the complainant doesn't mention high-quality general grievances, rags and local leaders, there's always a specific matter behind it. If the complainant does not open all the details of the truth, there is a reason for that. Since the establishment of the National Park of Őrség, it has sought to have a harmonious relationship with both the population and farmers, so it also operates a unique animal placement program in the country, 110 Hungarian heads have already been assigned to farmers, helping farmers to keep their farming logs, or lending tools, providing digital animal balances, mobile pens or breeding bulls if necessary. With the events of the national park, the Őrség tourist motor started from here the national park product system and spread throughout the country, helping craftsmen and service providers there. Of course, there are grievances. If someone breaks open the lawn without permission, or wants to create a street line in Szeres settlement, or wants to cut the tree from under the black stork, then there is a conflict. But, Congressman, in recent years, the national park has not imposed a single on-site fine on a local resident. None! Besides, it's not your job, it's the environmental authority that does it when it's needed. But they didn't impose an on-the-spot fine. So without any specifics, your question may seem of superficial importance, making it a less encouraging attempt to prove the usefulness of your representatives' activities. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-27-50	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Will there be or will there not be a 9-year primary school, why is the government talking about it? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2017-03-27-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The LMP wants us to finally get a clear picture of the nine-year primary school, because over the past few weeks, government statements have been going on about this. It is a very important objective, because this school form would serve to strengthen the basic skills of Hungarian students, and it is one of the biggest problems, and in the light of the tragic PISA results, it would really be necessary to improve quality and results. Let's look at the facts. On 3 March, Minister Balog said that I quote from the MTI report:. At the government meeting, an important professional decision was made to move towards the nine-class primary school, which means a kind of preschool. You, Mr Secretary of State, ten days later, in Parliament, answered my question that the government had not decided definitively on this, and supported this direction. On 17 March, so for three days László Palkovics, State Secretary of Education, said, I quote: "The government discussed the ninth class at first reading, but did not decide. It's an alternative to consider. And on March 23, a few days ago, Minister Zoltán Balog in his interview with TV2 said that they would stick to the nine-year primary school. These are completely conflicting statements. They're changing each other's lines. Dear Secretary of State, Let's get this straight. Have you decided or not, will you go in this direction or not, is this the direction, or is this just an alternative to many? Is there gonna be a nine-year elementary school? Why are you guys hitting on this? What are you trying to cover up by not answering that question? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-03-27-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-27-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It's not the government talking nonsense, but I think it's the LMP, because in all cases the government has discussed certain issues, but hasn't made a decision about the nine-year school. Thus, the question of whether there will be a nine-year school or not, no one in Hungary can answer you, because no decision has been made. However, the need to talk about this, to raise this as an opportunity at the round table of public education, in other professional fora, has allowed the government to give way. That's what we're doing, and that's why you're talking about it, because we said it was a possible alternative, so let's consider it. There was a previous problem that started from the performance of students on the one hand and the burden of students on the other. A lot of people have said that there are too many hours for students to get to one day, that somehow you have to start in some direction to reduce this daily load. One direction of this is the revision of NAT, which can place emphasis in the curriculum, which can reduce the daily load of students by highlighting certain things that are really important and essential to teach and not placing such emphasis on other things. The same option is the 9th grade, which obviously has other advantages, such as providing a transition from kindergarten to primary school, from lower school to upper school, from high school to high school. So there are several alternatives to where, how this can help students. But none of them have been decided, each option, as well as countless other possibilities, is discussed from time to time by the public education round table, which the Ministry's leaders speak about even in public, even in professional forums, and which they speak about among themselves. [[12.30]] So, honourable Member, no one will be able to answer that question as to whether there will be a 9th grade or not, since no decision has been made. We will see in the coming weeks and months what direction the debate will go on, and then we will make a professional decision if that is necessary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-54	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Balázs Simon Róbert, a representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:. Győr can also take the lead in the production of castings? It's an address. Congressman Robert Simon has the floor.
u2017-03-27-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that the government that took office in 2010 has decided to reindustrialise the country in order to return Hungary to the production centre of Europe. I would particularly like to point out that the automotive industry is the fastest growing sector in the Hungarian economy, which has been through quantitative and qualitative leaps in recent years, but the government also attaches particular strategic importance to the whole sector. Busch-Hungária Kft., operating in the international industrial park in Győr Hungary's largest iron foundry is about to make a new investment with the government's support. I would like to say that the number of people employed by the investor and his affiliated companies in Hungary is currently 1648 and that there is a research and development job for 11 people in connection with his new investment. Furthermore, as a result of the investment, export sales are increasing and the recycling of steel waste that has not been used or sold abroad is now possible. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me point out that the city of Győr has developed in many areas during the period behind us, we have become an automotive centre, and our city has grown into a driving force of the region and the Hungarian economy. It warms my heart to see another result of excellent government cooperation with investors in Győr. On this basis, I ask, Mr. Secretary of State: Can Győr also take the lead in the production of castings? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary of State. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-27-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you said, Busch-Hungária Kft. Hungary's largest iron foundry and the promotion of its development is not only in the interest of the city of Győr, but also of the entire Western Transdanubian region, together with the entire national economy. Busch-Hungária Kft. is located in the Győr industrial park with 380 employees. He is a recognised partner of several vehicle manufacturers in Europe; he is a member of the BPW group in Germany; his main area of activity is the production of high added value globular castings, the most important elements of his product range are wheel hubs, brake saddles, swing arms, wheel racks. The impact of the company on the Hungarian economy is simply beyond manufacturing, as the raw material for the production of the product is mostly from scrap metal produced in the domestic manufacturing industry. What's waste to someone else, this company makes quality parts. Its activity is constantly evolving, its turnover in 2017 exceeded 11 billion, which is more than 20 percent more than the previous year. Three-quarters of this produces exports, increasing Hungary's competitiveness. In February 2017, Busch-Hungária Kft. declared Busch-Hungária a priority issue in the national economy. new R &amp; D investment. The company received HUF 508 million from the R &amp; D priority of the operational programme for economic development and innovation, which is one third of the total investment and the rest is provided by the investor himself. Honourable Congressman, I can tell you that this means that for the past over a hundred years, the city of Győr is important to the government. So, as you said, Győr also takes the lead in the production of castings. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2017-03-27-58	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Because of the head of the district, the Klebelsberg Center was moved from the new village of Berettyó to the Bishop's Lady? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2017-03-27-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The centre of the Bishops' Lady's District was established in July last year, where the district district of Hajduszoboszló, Bishops' Lady, Derekske and Berettyó Newfalu was merged. It was a surprise to us when it appeared in the Gazette that the centre would be established in Bishop's Lady and not in Hajduszoboszlo. Even then, the experts talked about the intention of punishing Hajdúszoboszló's leadership, as he is known to be not a pro-government leader of Hajdúszoboszló. Then the new KLIK center was opened in December in Berettyóújfalu, and then no one noticed that the one that opened this centre in the building would not be suitable for the operation of the centre. Then, in February, we were shocked to learn that the center was suddenly moved to the new village of Berettyó. The workers spoke, though no one dared to take it by name, that there was only one reason why they so suddenly moved to the new village of Berettyó, that the head of the center was a new villager, and that he was uncomfortable to go to Bishop's Lady every day. Secretary of State, I came to you in writing and you wrote to me that, according to the previous regulations, the building of the seat of the Bishops' Lady was not suitable for all government officials to take up office according to the number authorised. Mr. Secretary, have you seen this building? I saw it. Well, at least don't write a lie. Mr. Secretary, you wrote that the workers are in a better position now, because only five Bishops' Lady workers go out to Berettyó's new village every day. Mr. Secretary, how many of you have resigned from the center because of the fact that your letter mentions that you were forced to go to Berettyó's new village because of the bad traffic conditions? He described half truths and lies in his reply. Mr. Secretary, how did you miss the fact that the building is incompetent to you? And how many people were forced to quit because they couldn't go to work? I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-27-60	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-27-61	Thank you very much. Let me read the title of the question once again:. Because of the head of the district, the Klebelsberg Center was moved from the new village of Berettyó to Püspökladány... [[Dr. István Józsa: Question mark!]] Question mark. The reality is that Berettyó's new village moved from Bishop's Lady to the school district. So the facts of his title are exactly the other way around. [[It's a rare applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] But this shows the momentary attitude of the MSZP: if you move from the Bishop's Lady to the new village of Berettyó, you still object to moving from the new village of Berettyó to Püspökladány. That means it doesn't matter where he moves from, the MSZP will protest, and he'll even put it in a thick letter. It doesn't matter, Congresswoman, that László Botka is going from Szeged to Budapest or from Budapest to Szeged. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I expect an answer!]] You wouldn't possibly confuse it there; when it comes to Fidesz-KDNP's action, it doesn't matter where you move from, you'll object. [[Anita Herring: You're pathetic! Dr. István Józsa: What you're doing is cynical!]] Well, if we look at the residence of the staff of the school district center in Berettyóújfalu, there are five people living in Bishop's Lady [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Before that, they resigned, Mr. Secretary of State.]] Twelve in the new village of Berettyó and six in Hajduszoboszlo, by the way. So there's two and a half times the population in Berettyó Newfalus, and Berettyó's new village is where the school district center works. If you don't think this is a logical step, if you need two and a half times as many workers [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: How many have resigned before him? The president's ringing the bell.]] I don't know what makes sense to you. Plus, it's closer than Debrecen. They're resignations, not resignations. There is only one worker who has gone to another public education institution and does not work at the maintenance office, but continues his work in the public education institution. There's an office in Bishop's Office right now, so obviously, whoever's got cases there can handle it there. In the new place they were given an office free of charge, which is suitable for use. You don't have to pay for this office space. The former was not able to continue its activities there in the long term in Bishop's Lady. So, honourable Member, I could not find a sentence in your speech that would have been a basis for reality. Thank you very much. [[Intercoms and applause from the ranks of the governing parties.]] [[12.40]]
u2017-03-27-62	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Gábor Staudt, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Attorney General: It's an address. Congressman Gábor Staudt has the floor.
u2017-03-27-63	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Deputy Prosecutor General, It is well known that OLAF has recently completed its investigation of metro 4 which will result in a penalty of HUF 76.7 billion waiting for our country. Before the above events, I asked the Attorney General with a written question, because it has been suggested that the prosecutor's investigation of OLAF signals is rather generous, that the procedures are very generous, by which it should be understood that we can see extremely slow and low efficiency in these proceedings, that there are hardly any charges, and that there are almost no real accountabilitys at all. In the reply of the Attorney General, it was found that, in the last five years, only four of the 28 criminal proceedings, which had been opened, had been brought to the conclusion of an indictment and that one case had come to the conclusion that a stay had been given. Unfortunately, I have not been able to find out how many signals have been received from OLAF since 2010, so this number remained in debt to the Attorney General, but we can say that investigations are taking place with unacceptable slow and very low efficiency, and that OLAF has already carried out investigations in advance, so that they should speed up and not slow down investigations. In view of the above, metro 4 is also outstanding, the case of the Alstrom contracts, where the Mayor made a complaint in January 2011 and the investigation is still ongoing. What I'm wondering is why investigations in OLAF cases usually last so long. Who's responsible for the investigation into subway 4 that's been going on for over six years without an indictment? Since we can assume that this nearly 80 billion penalties should not be paid in the case of quick criminal proceedings, how much of this will the prosecution pay from their own budget? Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-27-64	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Attorney General Ervin Belovich. Here you go.
u2017-03-27-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, With regard to the final report of the European Anti-Fraud Office on Metro 4 investment, I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that the final report only made a judicial recommendation to the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office in connection with the contract concluded with Alstrom, but, on the basis of the findings of the final report, the Prime Minister's Office reported several contracts relating to the investment. In connection with Metro 4 the investigation was carried out on 3 January 2011, i.e. one year before OLAF's investigation started for some five years, following the complaint of the Municipality of Budapest, on the grounds of suspicion of fraudulent treatment. In the summer of 2016, the Attorney General personally ordered that Hungarian prosecutors review the documents of the proceedings conducted by the United Kingdom in connection with the Treaties of Alstrom in London, and the result was that substantial information had been brought to the knowledge of the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office which resulted in the speeding up of the procedure. Therefore, on 16 September 2016, the case was placed in the power of the prosecutor, from that date the Central Detective Prosecutor General's Office will act. In October 2016, the Central Investigator's Attorney General conducted house searches, interrogated suspects, arrested and filed a motion for prior arrest for several suspects. The longer duration of the investigation is due to a number of reasons, such as the complexity of the case and the need for intensive and extensive international cooperation. Since the prosecution's jurisdiction of the investigation, I think the investigative actions have clearly accelerated. Given that the investigation is still ongoing, I cannot at present provide more detailed information in the light of the interests of the investigation. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]]
u2017-03-27-66	I thank the Deputy Attorney General for his reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources: how does it become a real innovation? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-03-27-67	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The LMP considers it a priority to support domestic innovation in terms of economic development and the creation of a sustainable society, and we know that we are not doing well in this area. If we look at the financial expenditure alone, it would be necessary to double and triple the current state resources, as we continue to spend only one or two out of every hundred forints of our budget on innovation, so that we will never catch up to the level of more developed countries, the welfare and security of Western Europe or the Scandinavian states will be forever unavailable. However, the problems are not only of a material nature, but it is very typical that a research project is vital for survival, since it is financed by wages and funds. Computers essential for education, teaching or conference participations cannot be obtained from public funding, only within the framework of such innovation proposals, which in itself is nonsense. Even after earlier restrictions, such an increase in resources may not be possible if there is still no money to create the basic conditions. Firefighter-like instructors can't raise their wages if they're light-years away from the state university sector. If this stays that way, the best researchers will continue to be smoked by companies. Dear Secretary of State, When will they create a predictable innovation background for universities? Let's just say that innovation resources go to a significant part of the operation. When will it be common for research to be organised not through financial constraints, but to be determined by real research potential? Can coercion be a real innovation? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-03-27-68	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-27-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I do not know what you think, Congressman, as a small resource and what you consider to be a great resource, but HUF 333 billion is available for research, development, innovation, strengthening such capacities; there is money from EFOP in this, there is money from GINOP in this, there is money from VEKOP in Central Hungary, but there is also budget money in this, support from the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund. I do not know if you can recall a period in Hungary when such a large amount of HUF 333 billion was available. If you multiply the amount of advertising tax revenue or how many months of personal income tax revenue this is for the government, you can see that this is a huge amount of money, the maintenance of the entire district system for six months, the wages of all teachers and 170,000 teachers could be financed from it. So this is a huge amount of money within the government, and it can not only finance wages and acquisitions of assets, but also primarily not wages and acquisitions of assets, but also the opportunities for better access to international research, closer contacts with Hungarian economic organizations, which make these research and development sustainable in the long term, and make the results themselves useful, as they can benefit immediately from Hungarian companies and Hungarian businesses. I think this not only strengthens international relations, but it can also promote very much domestic innovation activity. The fact that these are good proposals shows how much interest there is in them, how many people are able to achieve truly exploitable and truly innovative research, which can be used in the economy, in addition to basic research, so I think this HUF 333 billion is a huge boost, a huge opportunity for the Hungarian R &amp; D sector. Thank you very much. [[Tibor Scone claps.]]
u2017-03-27-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sándor Font and János Pócs, representatives of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture: It's an address. Mr János Pócs has the floor.
u2017-03-27-71	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, At the beginning of the year, there were several major agricultural exhibitions to represent our country. The most important opportunity for the performance was perhaps provided by Grüne Woche in Berlin, one of Hungary's key partners this year. According to the news at the fair, 400,000 people turned this year, who probably all met the Hungarian booths set up in the decorated place. A few weeks after the Berlin Fair, the Nuremberg Biofach was the center of attention, one of the largest hosts of organic farming products. [[12.50]] I understand the exhibition has reached the visitors' record this year. The international agricultural and food exhibition in Paris has not ended. R &amp; D was the main topic of the fair. It is interesting that during the event the young talents of the agricultural profession could compare their knowledge in two competitions. Our country was represented by the student of Gábor Bethlen in Gyomaendrőd Agricultural and Food Secondary School and College. It is a pleasure that the beginning of the year was so dense, and another positive thing is that the Agricultural Marketing Centre, which has previously been effective in supporting Hungarian participation in such events, is finally operating under the control of the FM. In recent years, AMC has been experiencing operational difficulties, which could mainly be traced back to its place in the governance structure. There were bureaucratic obstacles to effective operation. I respectfully ask Mr State Secretary how the AMC, once again under the control of the FM, supports Hungarian farmers. How did Hungary represent itself at the latest international agricultural exhibition? How many exhibitors did we have, how successful was our participation? I would also like to ask you with respect what significant exhibitions we will have this year, what will be the theme of this year's OMÉK. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-27-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-27-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, It is true that from 15 June 2016 Agrármarketing Centrum Nonprofit Kft. under the control of the FM. I have to say that everything you have touched on in your speech can be justified by a very old wisdom, by the fact that good wine also needs its company, because the many excellent Hungarian foods that grow and produce agricultural products in our country have to bring news to the world. We can be successful if excellent agricultural production, together with excellent food processing, can find a suitable market for these producers. We can best help producers if we can support not only the production side but also the commercial and sales side. The Agricultural Marketing Centre is an excellent partner of the Ministry of Agriculture. It is true what you have listed: it was a very strong spring for Hungarian farmers in the foreign presence, as Grüne Wochén was a prominent partner. An unprecedented amount of exhibitors looked at it, and very many excellent partnerships and shops were born at this exhibition in Berlin. I think that every Hungarian farmer should be proud of how Hungarian agriculture was carried out, how we brought news. But the continuation will also be very strong, as Hungary will be present at a number of 14 foreign agricultural exhibitions after the dense start of the year. In May we will be present in Hong Kong, Amsterdam and Shanghai, in September in Arad, in Cologne in October and in November in Almati, Kazakhstan. Of course, from a domestic point of view, our most important exhibition will be OMÉK, which will be held between 20 and 24 September. This is 78. It will be called OMÉK and the treasures of the Carpathian Basin, and Japan will be our guest. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-74	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why does the minimum wage not reach the net wages of those working in the social field? ! It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2017-03-27-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Can I start by saying, why don't you -- why don't you reach it? So it's nonsense that even the minimum wage doesn't get the net of the average salary. They're making a hell of a lot of money, and we all know that, of course, they're working in the social sector. Even though KSH shows that there is a 10 percent increase in wages, even though it translates this into the social sector, the money they earn in this sector is face-to-face. In 2016, they earned less than the minimum wage by an average of HUF 359. In January 2017, they faced a situation where they earned more than HUF 3,200 less than the minimum wage. You know, less than minimum wage. That was the average salary in the social sector. Let's not talk about what's going on, let's say, with the patronesses, the 5,000 civil servants whose basic salary in the social sector is virtually below the basic salary of those working in the specialized care sector, even though there is obviously no less in the value of their work. Actually, I just want to ask you two simple questions. One is what I said in the beginning. How is it that the minimum wage is not achieved by the net income of social workers? Why is that? My second question is, how and how do you want to change that? And most of all, when? How are we going to get this unacceptable, unqualified situation to change, so that those working in the social sector can earn decent income and pay, which will ensure their livelihood? And the last half sentence, speak from the last seven years. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-27-76	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2017-03-27-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, One thing the Member has forgotten to say is that the minimum wage has finally begun to rise in Hungary in a noticeable way. What the socialists had done before was to serve the interests of multinational companies. The Hungarian people's salaries were forced down, and, in spite of the fact that the economy was not run well, they were charged with high taxes, so that there would be revenue in the budget. With high taxes, low salaries, they tried to keep wages low and keep the budget balanced. It didn't lead to anything but collapse. [[Nándor Gúr keeps talking. The president's ringing the bell.]] Another period could then follow in 2010 when, in addition to tax reductions, wages could start to grow. One of the most important things was the increase in the minimum wage, because in Hungary the left-wing parties have always failed small-time people, and only in the case of national Christian Democrats Fidesz-KDNP governance has there been a noticeable increase in the minimum wage. This was the case between 1998 and 2002, then slowed down from 2002 to 2010, and now it has risen again. [[Nándor Gúr keeps talking.]] You will not be able to report 15 percent, 25 percent minimum wage and minimum wage increases for skilled workers, honourable Member, even if you keep talking while I am talking.
u2017-03-27-78	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary, for a second. Congressman, I don't remember when you spoke, Mr. Secretary of State said a word. Please excuse yourself, the Secretary of State's answer is given. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. I'm warning you, Congressman.
u2017-03-27-79	Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving us the opportunity to respond. As a result, fortunately, the minimum wage is increasing and people's earnings are increasing to an extent that has not been seen before. Earlier, their taxes had been reduced, especially for families with children, and now gross earnings are growing with the same value in many cases as net earnings. However, it was a very good decision by the government when it introduced a sectoral wage supplement in 2014 and a salary supplement in the following year, and now, in the following four years, we will increase the salary of the workers in the sector by 65 percent overall, thus estimating their work. Unfortunately, this cannot be reported from your period. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I've included what I said in the time frame. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. What does the Government do to make sure that the breast milk plant is not another deterrent example? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2017-03-27-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. Since the change of regime, we have encountered a number of outrageous cases where a well-functioning Hungarian-owned plant is being demolished and terminated. Sometimes because of the interests of a foreign investor, sometimes because of the interests of the money-hungry political prostitute owner. The end, of course, is always the same: Hungarian farmers, Hungarian workers, Hungarian state, suppliers don't get the rightful money, they draw the short straw. A series of plants that have been destroyed by these mafia methods are also presented here in Parliament as a topic of speech, but, unfortunately, from government to government level, there are no real steps to be taken. In the last 27 years, there has been virtually free robbery in this area. I'm talking about well-functioning, otherwise profitable companies, businesses, which, in some ways, have been destroyed. [[13.00]] Until you and your ancestors have filled your pockets and taken real action, you will again be the same injured in every such case I've listed. Another case like this is the case of the cheesy dairy factory, where after the December job stop, you were expected to get in trouble. But now it is believed that 60 people have lost their jobs as a result of forced liquidation, and almost the same number of suppliers are waiting for their money. Counting their families, this gives a huge number, not to mention that it could be another fatal blow to the Hungarian dairy industry. So there are questions as to why they sit by and watch Hungarian families and their domestic milk production fail. How can it be done in a rule of law that, at the moment before bankruptcy, the company is mortgaged so that the person who ultimately put the plant on the brink of bankruptcy can benefit from the liquidation? Why don't you get it to the farmers in the area so that they can finally be the owners who are interested in further operation? I look forward to hearing from the Secretary of State on these. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-27-82	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State István Nagy. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-03-27-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, I would like to point out to you that all the expressions and adjectives with which it was addressed are very vague and very misleading statements. I understand your anger, because worrying about farmers is a very good act, and it is very right. But to draw general and wrong judgments from this, I think it is a dangerous area; of course, it is a table of politics, but it does not belong here. I would also like to remind Mr President that, since the change of regime, private companies have been carrying out economic activities for their own benefit and at their risk. In relation to the gigty dairy plant, two court executions have recently been ordered against Kft., and the government cannot intervene in these procedures. At the same time, we can encourage the owner to seek the best possible solution for suppliers and workers in order to continue the operation of the plant. If you say that the government is sitting by and watching what is happening in the sector, then I have to tell you that we only gave 50 billion forints for the first time in the sector, then last year we gave some 60 billion forints for national and EU support, which was the highest in terms of production among the EU countries. I think this is exactly what the preliminary data show that milk production increased by 2 percent in 2016, despite the severe global crisis, which is expected to accelerate this year. What's the solution? - you asked the question, and you mentioned it at the end of your speech. Yes, the exact solution would be for producers to finally organise themselves together. Do not allow processing to happen to the convenience of one person, either with profit or with loss. Buy them, take them into their own hands, form producer communities, and these producer communities, be they cooperatives, operate these processing plants, and then not only profit from production, but also benefit from trade and processing. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-27-84	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of LMP, wants to ask the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade: with the support of CETA, Fidesz not only sacrificed national sovereignty, but also agreed to the mining of Canadian companies in Transylvania for cyanide-technology gold mining? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2017-03-27-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In its resolution on the initiative of the LMP, the Parliament stated that the Government did not support a free trade agreement that would jeopardise environmental and health protection, food safety and anti-democratic dispute resolution. The EU-Canada Free Trade Convention, CETA, is exactly such an agreement. We have no doubt that with the temporary entry into force of CETA, Canadian investors will restart the legal battle in order to conduct cyanide-technology gold mining in Verespatak and elsewhere in Transylvania. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] And if this encounters bureaucratic obstacles, in the future, large companies may sue individual states for their missed profits. With the support of CETA, Eastern European governments, including Fidesz, have themselves helped to reduce their self-determination. Why? In Transylvania, one of the most extensive mining companies in Transylvania recently announced that this year, Eldorado Gold is investing $20 million in the construction of a non-ferrous metal mine in the Erdély ore Mountains. A number of Canadian mining companies cherish similar plans, since there is a huge prospect of profits. The LMP warned Fidesz in advance that, with the support of CETA, it cuts wood not only under domestic agriculture but also under the entire water catchment area of the Tisza. The Convention was now provisionally concluded in the European Parliament on 15 February, where Fidesz MEPs supported it. Once CETA has provisionally entered into force, Member States should also approve it. I would like to ask whether Fidesz intends to veto the convention in the course of parliamentary ratification, or rather to accept the sacrifice of our national interests on the altar of free trade. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-03-27-86	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to the Secretary of State László Szabó.
u2017-03-27-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It would be worth reading the text of CETA and the supplementary statement. It is clear from these that there is little change in dispute handling matters. For example, the current provisional application of CETA will not change investment protection. Of course, we are also concerned that only investments will be made in the entire river basin of the Tisza in line with environmental and quality assurance rules, and we will continue to pay attention to this in the future. By the way, Parliament will have the opportunity to give an opinion on the entire text soon, preferably this summer, and the 11/2016 you referred to. the objectives to be pursued in the parliamentary resolution will be met in the course of parliamentary ratification. It's practically obvious that there's a lot of public interest in CETA. An interpretation document with legal force between EU Member States and Canada was also issued, precisely to address such concerns. Member States' regulatory rights remain in the authorisation of investments at high risk on the basis of environmental aspects such as cyanide mining investment on the issue. In practice, neither environmental nor labour law nor consumer protection standards are reduced. I would also like to point out that the current Canadian-Hungarian bilateral trade agreement is, for example, much weaker, much worse in this respect than the new CETA agreement will be. So I trust that we are making a big step forward with the ratification of CETA, and these environmental aspects, which you have mentioned, will certainly prevail. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-88	Thank you. István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior:. How long will we pay the pension of Ukrainian pensioners? It's an address. The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-27-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Interesting scenes take place in the eastern border settlements on one day of the month. It's like the population's changing. On the one day, which is the day of retirement, many unknown faces appear there have only one purpose: to get to the ATM machine as soon as possible. They are Ukrainian citizens, formally entitled to the Hungarian pension with a permanent address established in Hungary; just to make it a little more readable, not only for Hungarian pensions, but also for the pension of the employment group in Hungary, which they did in Ukraine. Therefore, many of them are doctors, school principals, uranium miners, or brain surgeons, and very few are pendellus, locksmiths, or any other simple occupations. Obviously, there is a higher pension if there are documents of unknown origin to prove what they were actually doing before they were retired. [[13.10]] Dear Secretary of State, The problem is partly a budgetary issue, because it is more than ten billion items, but in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg it is a matter of justice. This is the county where the average pensions are the lowest, not by accident. Obviously because very few , they spent their working days in very low paid jobs, so their pension is not high. That is why they view it badly and therefore do not consider it fair for people to receive Hungarian pensions by registering for fictitious addresses. Secretary of State, you are very creative in such matters, so I ask you: when can you change the rules for filing a temporary or permanent address in such a way that these abuses are prevented? Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2017-03-27-90	Thank you. State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2017-03-27-91	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We checked at the border crossing points to see if there really was such an increase in traffic as you mentioned. They said there were two types of traffic growth, one of which belongs to the travels of migrant workers, and the other one is related to tourism, but they have not yet met with what you mentioned. Nevertheless, ensuring legality is important for everyone, and therefore both regular and random checks are carried out by the pension administration precisely so that it can detect possible abuses. Obviously, if the requests sent are not received or the recipient is unknown, it is already a sign in relation to this, but the authority also checks whether there is an accurate lifestyle at the address to which a person has declared himself to be living. In fact, it is clear that the process of assessing the claim itself includes the fact that a life-style stay must be established and verified by the staff of the authority. However, it is important that this convention, which has been going back decades, should be replaced by a new, more modern, much more modern international agreement. As you may know, as I think you asked on a written question, the Hungarian party is constantly trying to contact Ukraine and negotiate with Ukraine. Unfortunately, however, it is also well known that political stability in Ukraine is not comparable to that of Hungary; therefore, the opening of negotiations and negotiations on this issue, contacting and communicating with the competent parties are already difficult to address the Hungarian needs. This is why it is very difficult to replace this old convention with a modern convention that complies with today's rules of international law. Hungary is trying to do this, and the local authorities are also trying to do so in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county and elsewhere, so that the addresses and stays are monitored accurately and only for the right holders. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-92	Thank you. László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: "Are patients and workers safe in emergency departments? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-27-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, In the past few weeks, the president of the Hungarian Medical Chamber said publicly in front of the press, it depends only on the patients' good fortune to receive adequate care in the emergency departments of hospitals. The president's words were based on the fact that, according to a recent research carried out by them, a total of 140 qualified emergency doctors are available in emergency departments instead of the 600 otherwise needed. Thus, in many departments, the patients who arrive here meet not even a specialist, but the residents, with the highest level of education being at most one candidate. Otherwise, this condition is not only completely illegal, but also endangers the safety of patients, and also the security of the workers themselves, as well as the legal situation of the workers. In their current operation, emergency departments undermine public confidence in them. In the meantime, instead of examining this problem that the Chamber had raised, the government would have carried out a data collection and assessed that these conditions were actually in place, it covered the problem with the fact that no one had previously sent a signal about the problem to the State Secretariat. The reality, of course, is that the government has been unable to rebut with numbers and facts that there really is so many people missing from a secure emergency care system. In addition, patients themselves agree with the idea of the Chamber in their daily experience, they also meet very busy doctors, overworked professionals throughout the country, and they may not even have to do research to see that there is a problem in this area. With regard to this situation, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State: has the Government even examined the proposals made by the Medical Chamber? If so, what are you doing to provide the right people for safe care for emergency services in the country? Are patients and workers in emergency rooms safe? I look forward to your honored, meaningful reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-27-94	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2017-03-27-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, As I listened to you here, eloquently speaking about how much more doctors would be needed in SBOs, emergency care departments, I wondered: did you say those words in itself when you were involved in sending doctors abroad? How many doctors have you sent abroad from emergency care? [[Dr. László György Lukács: None! György Sziâlágyi: How many do you have?]] Or what kind of doctors were they, through your Doctors Abroad and similar company, that you boasted about sending 62 doctors to Ireland in six months... [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] I wonder how many people could work in these emergency rooms or anywhere else. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Dentist does not work in an emergency room.]] I am curious, honourable Member, because you regularly speak up here and talk about the lack of human resources in Hungarian health, but I do not understand why you would do this if you had done what you had done earlier, by seeking financial gain, financial gain through your company, to get doctors abroad. You thought it was an indicator, an important goal to get as many doctors abroad as possible, and now you think it is the government's fault that there are so few doctors in Hungary. Honourable Congressman, Every time you talk about these things, I just look, I wonder, and I stare at what else can fit into Jobbik's constant changes of direction. On the other hand, of course, after receiving the letter from the Medical Chamber, the government prepared the answer and sent it to the Medical Chamber. In addition, both residents and others, including specialists, have launched a salary increase or scholarship programme. Of course, in emergency care departments, candidates for specialists only operate if they support their work. And if you had read the news a few weeks ago, you would have also read that the financing of emergency care will double from 1 March, from HUF 5.6 million to HUF 11.3, from level 2 to level 11.7 to 23.5, and I could tell you where the next doubles will be. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. György Szilágyi: Well, they don't applaud, Mr. Secretary of State.]]
u2017-03-27-96	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Office:. Why is it always the increase in the private assets of the Butchers and Garancsik, and not the public interest, even when it comes to national strategy issues? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér, who will respond to the request of Mr Tibor Pogácsás.
u2017-03-27-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Because of its risk to water in the Netherlands, water damage prevention and integrated water management are as important a strategic issue as they should be in Hungary, but not in the way that the President of Hungary wants to save the world in this area, but in such a way that the Hungarian Government takes all measures in this area towards sustainable water management. The Dutch do this by developing a professionally sound concept and plans, which are agreed with all stakeholders until the social consensus is reached and then act. Well, that's what you guys don't happen to do. Take Budapest, for example. In many cases, the capital city was threatened by catastrophic floods, most recently in 2002, 2006 and 2013. We also know that in the future we will face increasingly dangerous flood levels. To prevent this from happening, the requirement for protection adapted to the flood level has been increased. This concerns several coastal sections of the capital, but you seem to be dealing only with the Roman coast, but also badly. You only declared this project a priority investment back in 2012. But there are only unevenly prepared plans, incomplete environmental and social studies. It has not been taken into account that building permits for residential parks built here in recent years are against the law and that the new plans are in deep violation of both domestic and EU standards, such as nature protection and the Water Framework Directive. With these and other substantive tests, you don't bother. Are they so irresponsible and greedy that they can only afford such plans? Why do they want to legitimise illegal and private wealth investments with public money? Thank you. [[13.20]]
u2017-03-27-98	Thank you. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2017-03-27-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, I think that the President of the Republic's activity, whether in relation to one of the most important natural treasures of the Earth, water or healthy drinking water, deserves recognition rather than the infernal ambiguous remarks made by you. The government, by the way, thinks properly with the Hungarian water supply, the drinking water supply, and provides the necessary plans to protect the drinking water supply in Hungary. As a result of the strategic work on water management in recent years, materials, plans, programmes that ensure the protection of Hungarian water resources and flood protection could be completed in the long term. Hungary's second national river basin management plan has been adopted, which includes the latest tests on the load in order to achieve good water status; takes into account the new parameters caused by climate change; and includes the analyses to be carried out by 2021 and 2022. The flood risk management plan, which has also taken into account the European Union's directives, has also been completed. We have set a major objective to reduce the risk of flooding. In the order in which these investments take place, the economic and cultural heritage and nature conservation areas of the population of Hungary can become increasingly secure. Finally, but not least, we have adopted the national water framework strategy, the Kvassay plan, which summarises the main objectives of domestic water management by 2030. This is a medium-term water management plan to explore the relationship between society and water [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] state the measures by relying on them. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[It's a rare applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-27-100	Ladies and gentlemen, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of National Economy:. Why hasn't the proposed release of student loans in connection with childbearing been included in the legislation? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-27-101	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Four years ago, in 2013, Miklós Soltész, then Minister of State for Social Affairs and Family Affairs, said that a proposal was made to exempt students who have children during their studies from the repayment of part of the student loan. Márius Révész, then head of the Population Research Institute, said that fathers studying in higher education would also be affected by a discount on the repayment of student loans. At the same time, children born after the completion of their studies could be exempted from the repayment of part of the student loan. Bearing in mind the extremely worrying demographic situation, the low level of child commitments and the number of young people in debt spirals during student loans, this initiative was indeed forward-looking and should be supported. In our view, such a measure would significantly encourage the intention of having children and would help young married people by starting a family. From a population policy point of view, it is an effective initiative, since the proposal would exempt borrowers from 30% of the amount to be repaid per child for Student Loan2, while in the case of three children, we can already talk about a full repayment exemption. Students should pay 200,000 forints less per child. At the end of last year, I asked the government a written question asking why this proposal did not go into law, despite the original plans. They're finally coming up with a proposal, and of course it's not gonna happen either - that's typical. Dear Secretary of State, On this basis, the question is also given: why hasn't this idea been incorporated into legislation, and help families who borrow students at the same time and support children? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-03-27-102	I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2017-03-27-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If I may, I would like to touch on the issue of student lending a little more thoroughly and globally. Moreover, in my reply in December of last year, I explained in detail the discounts on the payment of student loans. The repayment of borrowers who take on children is supported by a targeted interest rate subsidy, since a mother or father who is in need or in need of children can now ask for a break in the repayment of student loans. In the case of Student Loan1, interest is paid in full by the State during this period and in the case of Student Loan2 by a general interest rate subsidy. The borrower only has to pay the interest rate of 2 per cent and the above part is reimbursed by the State. [[Gergely Farkas keeps interrupting.]] Due to the State guarantee related to the fundraising of the Student Loan Centre, the interest rate on Student Loan1 is also significantly lower in terms of similar market conditions, as it has gradually decreased in recent years, with an interest rate of only 3.35 per cent from 1 January 2017. In your question, you spoke of a multitude of young people in a debt spiral. On the other hand, the reality is quite different, since, compared to 2011, the proportion of those unable to repay is significantly reduced, and the number of contracts terminated and transferred to implementation, and thus also the proportion. In 2011, this ratio was still close to 3 percent of all contracts; at present it has fallen to less than 2 percent, more than 1.5 percent, so it has basically decreased by half. Overall, the government will achieve its objective of financing student loans, and will do so when it considers it necessary to modify the conditions. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-27-104	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade: After the East, will the Southern Opening be a complete failure? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-03-27-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The fall of the Eastern opening is no longer disputed in this country. This is the strategy that is embedded in the political distrust of our Euroatlantic allies, while, in recent years, our trade flows with these despotic states have overall decreased. With Russia, our trade has been halved in three years, Azerbaijan and Mongolia need the credit of the IMF. In Turkey, which is so close to Minister Szijjártó, we see the deep-flying of the currency, so that we do not talk about the state of emergency there and the division of rights that is coupled with it. The southern opening was born under similar stars. In 2014, Foreign Minister Navracsics closed our country's embassy in Estonia. According to LMP, your ministry is still accountable for the need to close our mission in friendly Estonia while announcing the opening of the Hungarian embassy in remote Ecuador. Of course, your game got Bucharest's attention, and that same year Bucharest opened his embassy in Tallinn. I hear you're about to reopen our embassy. In any case, the political error will be difficult to eliminate. For a written question to the LMP, your ministry recently confirmed that the establishment of the embassy planned to open in Peru would cost nearly a billion forints, while maintaining it at nearly a quarter billion per year. This level of presence is not supported by the political or commercial interests of our country in this remote country affected by a natural disaster. Mr. Secretary. After the fall in Ecuador, why throw billions out the window with the opening of the Peruvian embassy? After the ugly failure of the Eastern opening, can we now envelop the fall of the southern opening? I look forward to your reply.
u2017-03-27-106	I give the floor to Secretary of State László Szabó.
u2017-03-27-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congresswoman, I am a little concerned because you have produced quite a colorful bouquet of all the world's problems, and it is very interesting that you blame the opening of the East and the opening of the South. We were discussing a problem with the Secretary of State to link Estonia with the southern opening, which is also a difficult thing, so this map is probably backwards on the wall. What I would like to argue about, however, is that there are not so many who doubt the success of the Eastern opening. We were able to grow in the countries that we focus on, despite the fact that we have some serious problems with our two major business partners, Russia and Ukraine. [[13.30]] It would be quite difficult to see the Russian ruble crisis as a result of the Eastern opening, but we can also address Azerbaijan or other countries; I doubt that is really the focus of the Eastern opening. The essence of Eastern opening is that what all developed countries around the world are watching, by the way, to be present in Asian, American, Latin American and African regions where world growth and economic growth will take place in the coming years. And I am pleased to report that, on the basis of the sales figures at the end of 2016 compared to the 14th year data in the countries where we are present and where we cover these countries, our trade turnover has increased by 4 percent, by 31.7 million US dollars - that is quite clear to me. Technically, our exports in Latin America have increased by 3 percent, our foreign trade balance has increased by 3.5 percent, and we have only just begun. So I don't know how this picture is put together, but if we look at countries such as the country of eastern opening, the People's Republic of China, there we have achieved a 25 percent increase last year in food exports of 60%; Vietnam, which is one of the countries of southern opening, for example, we have achieved a 40 percent increase in trade flows. So I think it makes sense here to get a little deeper in the data. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-108	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Paragraph 4 (a), point 124. The following questions were rejected by virtue of the extended powers of paragraph 1 of Section 1 of the Act, because they do not fall within the remit of the Government: Mr Nándor Gúr, Member K/14166. Mr Sallai R. Benedek's oral question number K/14341. Written question No 1. Ladies and gentlemen, We're moving on to the immediate questioning period. First of all, MEP László Szakács wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question:. What did President 2 think? It's an address. Mr President has appointed Vice-President Márton Nagy as a response to an urgent public task. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept his identity.
u2017-03-27-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We read in the paper that you're actually running the MNB, but I'm waiting for the president. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2017-03-27-110	Thank you. Thus, the President will have to reply to the rejoinder at the hour of the second immediate question. Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás as a response to an urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. He says yes, so you have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-27-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Undoubtedly, even illegally prepared wells that are not prepared under appropriate conditions could pose a threat, and legislation has been adopted in this regard, which would require reporting at least at a level that the authorities should be aware of. It's okay. The problem is that there is a content of this implementing regulation that is inexplicable in practice. This implementing regulation describes the need to have a status drawing of the village well dug. With a planner or well drill, you have to fill in a yield plate, assessing water yield capacities that are impossible, Mr. Secretary of State. This affects hundreds of thousands of rural places where wells have been dug for centuries. I believe that there is absolutely no need for the kind of rigour that allows it to survive in this way. I think that it would be enough for everyone in every settlement to announce that they have one, because most of it is clogged, because when they were made, there was no water or canal in the settlements; some of it is obviously not there; there is no writing about what will happen to those where there are still traces of it, but it does not function in particular. And with the help of a certain risk analysis, the authorities must be able to decide which of these is worth examining or checking. I don't think there's anything more strict about this. There is no doubt that some abuse this so - called looser opportunity, and for example, I have heard of sewage being discharged into old digging wells, but this is not typical. I believe that those persons who use low capacity for their own purposes should not be subjected to such a strict control procedure. That has to be considered, Mr Secretary, because the implementing regulation is unenforceable, I will say it once again.
u2017-03-27-112	Thank you. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2017-03-27-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Nature conservation and environmental protection are a very complex issue, since the government can be called to account for the protection of nature, living water or water resources, and it can be held accountable if the opposition considers, as has already been the case today, that the government is not doing properly in order to protect our drinking water resources. When nothing else happens than in relation to a legislation that already existed before 1995, the Parliament decided to legalise the wells that have been established in recent years and decades, not in a single procedure, but in a procedure which is not linked to a fine, but to the possibility for real estate owners to announce it, and by paying a $3,000 procedural fee, the wells that have been established in recent years and decades are now being set up in a negative light. So I would like to stress that before 1995, groundwater wells had to be allowed, wells for raising groundwater, this has not been checked, and this has not been reviewed so far. The Parliament finally decided on 4 June 2016 that a maintenance permit could be applied for without the payment of a fine. What the requirement of a survival permit should be and what kind of technical certificate it should be, is obviously possible to think about or argue about, but I think it cannot be disputed that wells that have been completed can easily endanger the drinking water base below the surface. One of Hungary's biggest water resources problems is water nitrate [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and in part the wells prepared to highlight surface water are also defective. It should be added that many of those wells have been drilled in recent years [[The president's ringing again.]] which are suitable for... [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Two minutes!]] - are unfit for this task. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-114	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary, but the two-minute answer was almost three minutes. I'll give the congressman the opportunity to rejoinder.
u2017-03-27-115	Mr. Secretary. The truth is, it's not about registering these wells. I'm asking you, I'm saying that the executive regulation that came into being about it, which requires a frame drawing, a setup drawing, a yield plan, and stuff like that from farm people, hasn't given any thought to what you're asking. That's the whole point. Because it doesn't take any framework to determine if a competent man is a 200-year-old well or not. If there hasn't been a threat for 200 years, it's not a threat now. The amendment of the law wasn't meant to be about them, it was really messing around with all kinds of wells. So in the first place, I'm telling you, at the dug wells, it's completely unnecessary what you're asking for; you can't contaminate the drinking water base from there, because they're on the ground floor, not on the level of karst. It could be contaminated with drilled wells that are very deep. That is why I say to change this implementing regulation, to have a notification requirement, not 3 thousand, but 5 thousand forints, but even this is not enough to make it worth someone's time to have a legal well, and then the authority has to decide with a control program which is the well that really requires data sheets with this parameter. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] So this is what I'm asking, the deadline is the end of 2018, there's still time to think about it, but don't put hundreds of thousands of farm people and villagers out there. [[13.40]]
u2017-03-27-116	Thank you. Mr Tibor Pogácsák State Secretary.
u2017-03-27-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, So, as I have already mentioned, there has always been an obligation to report the well prepared to remove drinking water, which has not changed now, so it is mandatory to report, and no special authorization is required. Clearly, in order to assess the well there for decades or centuries as a threat, it is necessary for the authority to know the location of this well, its physical parameters. Expecting the authorities to come up with this, I think it's unthinkable. Obviously, the owner must have and the owner may have the information from which these wells, water collection sites can be discovered, known and even shown on the maps on which the various utilities are still on. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Zoltán Gőgös: Secretary of State, half of this is dry in the summer! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-118	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Can we expect a paradigm change? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to the urgent public task. I ask Mr. Congressman if he accepts the identity of the Minister.
u2017-03-27-119	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr President, Minister, but I will wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you.
u2017-03-27-120	Thank you. The Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Has the Minister submitted his resignation? It's an address. Mr. Prime Minister has appointed Mr. János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to the urgent public task. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept your identity.
u2017-03-27-121	I accept the Minister.
u2017-03-27-122	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-27-123	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, The practice works, public funds can be accessed through connections. In 2003, Péter Szijjártó stated, when the Kiss Elemér scandal broke out, when the case that caused Elemér Kiss to give up his position as a minister, because his company, the law firm that was his company, received state orders. Fidesz seems to be beyond the MSZP, since the Trócsányi László scandal is now underway, where the Minister of Justice is currently receiving orders in which not only are we talking about state orders, but his law firm is acting against the state. So today, László Trócsányi, Minister of Hungary, member of the government, representative of the state, who would be responsible for serving the Hungarian nation, is active in the interests of the Hungarian people, and his company, his business, is interested in achieving negative, negative results for the state, for the people, and hundreds of millions of public money for companies against the state, who are suing with the state; with the firm of the Minister of Justice, they have a greater chance of winning these lawsuits for these companies, that is clear. This role is highly unethical, morally uncomprehensible, because just think of the fact that you are taking money from two places, once you are paid from the state because you are a minister, and on the other hand you will take the dividends from your company that you have gained from your lawsuit against the state. You can't serve the state and those against them at the same time. It used to be called treason. Of course, in your morality, they say it's a clever, foody, smart strategy, because with Fidesz, dirty money and business are all that matters, we've seen it in the settlement bonds. This mentality is unsuitable. László Trócsányi has not resigned, as far as I know. My question is, when will the minister be called off if he doesn't resign himself? I'm looking forward to your reply. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-27-124	Minister János Lázár has the floor.
u2017-03-27-125	Thank you very much. Honourable Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, During the morning I was able to consult Prime Minister, and I would like to reassure the Parliament, with the work of the Minister of Justice, the Prime Minister sees him as a fully satisfied, well-prepared Minister of Justice, who is able not only to protect Hungary's interests, but also on the European stage, to protect Hungarian interests, as he is doing in these days and in these weeks, when he is fighting very hard to defend the legal barrier that protects Hungary's interests and its borders. I ask my fellow Members to support Minister László Trócsányi in this, and to reject all unfounded and untrue slander together. First of all, László Trócsányi's work is not only what makes him credible, but also his personality. Anyone who knows me - I was a student of my own at the University of Szeged at the time - knows precisely that his personal integrity in this country could never be doubted or doubted. We also all know that in the last 27 years, many international offices have started their activities in Budapest, and fortunately some Hungarian lawyers, with the help of László Trócsányi, have managed to improve the country's best Hungarian law firm. We shouldn't be ashamed of that, we should be proud of that. As regards the strict requirement of conflicts of interest, the Minister meets its requirements in all respects, given that he has been suspending his activities as a lawyer since 2007, since he is the former Ambassador of the Constitutional Judge, Hungary, in Brussels, Paris, who, in my opinion, pays particular attention to the fact that the accusation of conflicts of interest cannot be reached in any form. So there is no conflict of interest, its financial relations are transparent, because it makes a wealth declaration, and I think it is accessible and well-known to all of us. I've never experienced any bias in my personal work. As far as bias is concerned, you question the independence of the Hungarian courts when you claim that the verdict would depend on the mandate of a law firm, which I think we should all reject. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-126	Congressman György Szilágyi is entitled to the rejoinder.
u2017-03-27-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary. The Prime Minister is probably pleased with László Trócsányi, because as head of a thief- and business-government, what else would his task be than to be satisfied with the minister who represents companies against the state who, if they win, will take hundreds of millions of public money from people, or hundreds of millions of public funds from the state, the Hungarian government, which could use public funds for other, more important things. He believes that the Minister's activities of paying the state as a minister on one side are fully compatible, and that on the other hand, when these lawsuits are won and his company is rich, his company will acquire as much wealth as possible, and then he will get the right money out of there. He's getting money from two places. He betrays Hungary at the moment, betrays the Hungarian nation at the moment by your Minister of Justice! This is outrageous, especially the outrageous fact that you're defending him with the Prime Minister. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-27-128	Thank you. Minister János Lázár has the floor.
u2017-03-27-129	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, You have no reason or reason to be nervous or angry. I believe what you're saying about the Minister of Justice is all lies. It is a lie because the office of the Minister of Justice in this case does not represent the client against the Hungarian State, but represents him against the Municipality of Budapest, which is not the same [[Moore, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks. Dóra Dúró: Oh, is that different?]] I don't think so. László Trócsányi is the Minister of Justice of the Hungarian State and not the Minister of Justice of the Municipality of Budapest. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] I have listened to you, although it has not been easy, the Member's speech has been so unworthy, but I have done so because I respect your constituents. My second point, my dear Member, is that the Minister has been interrupting his activities as a lawyer for ten years, he has not been involved in the work and management of the law firm, and I therefore note that there is no conflict of interest. And we can all be proud that Hungary's interests are protected by a Minister of Justice such as László Trócsányi, who, I allow, is one of the most prepared of today's EU justice ministers. Thank you very much. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-130	Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is the explanation? It's an address. Mr. Prime Minister has appointed Mr. János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to the urgent public task. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept your identity.
u2017-03-27-131	I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2017-03-27-132	Thank you. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Erzsébet Schmuck, R. Benedek Sallai and Bernadett Szél, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: Why is the government afraid of a referendum on enlargement? It's an address. The Prime Minister also appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, as a result of the urgent public task. I'm asking you if you'll accept your identity, Congresswoman.
u2017-03-27-133	With this question, I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2017-03-27-134	Thank you. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, on behalf of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Office:. Why is the government making a nuclear waste cemetery? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2017-03-27-135	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Twenty years ago, the last railway shipment of spent fuel was launched from Hungary to Russia, and this means that the high-activity waste should then be disposed of in Hungary. [[13.50]] Since then, Hungarian-Russian nuclear cooperation has been limited to generating electricity from the fuel imported from Russia in Hungary and the accumulation of unprocessed nuclear waste in the nuclear power plant. The management of high-activity nuclear waste remains unsolved, and you have no better idea than to collect nuclear waste in various landfills by Paks I. and Paks II. in its territory, leaving the danger and problem to the next generations. The final storage is planned to be built in the Boda area of Baranya County, but on the one hand the nearby population of Pécs has not been consulted on this, and on the other hand, according to the State Audit Office, the resources of the Nuclear Fund will not be sufficient for the costs, and on the third hand the SAO also concluded that the Nuclear Fund is not a separate cash register, but only a future state commitment, which will require additional budget expenditure during the construction of the storage. For all these reasons, how will the government exempt future generations from the waste management costs of nuclear power generation?
u2017-03-27-136	Thank you. Minister János Lázár has the floor.
u2017-03-27-137	Thank you very much. Honourable Parliament! I would like to thank my fellow Member for his question. I would like to inform you that, when Hungary joined the European Union in 2004, it joined, among other things, the Euratom Convention, which sets out the order for the disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste, so that there is no national competence or only a partial competence as to how and how waste should be disposed of in any EU nuclear power plant. In this respect, legislation has been in place since 2011 in order to ensure that nation states seek to self-solve the disposal of waste material. This question is important not only in the future, but also today, because today's response will give us the answer of the future, given that Hungary is still solving the location of spent fuel in Hungary's territory. There are those who believe that this is the most comforting solution, and we must strive to move spent fuel from Hungary in the long run, as we have an agreement on this right now. At the same time, the government has prepared a national strategy for the disposal of spent fuel and radioactive waste, which has been approved by the European Union. I would like to inform you that a research process has begun, where and how the conditions for placement in Hungary are available. This is indeed happening in Baranya County, as far as I know, in the usual authority clearance procedure. According to my information available, but I will also ask the statements made in the statement made by the congresswoman, all the necessary consultations have been carried out, and so far there is nothing more than the issue of a research permit. Why? Partly because there is an obligation for the European Union to place spent waste cells at some point in time. Today, I understand that in the European Union, in which there are 115 nuclear power plants in Western Europe, there are no waste disposal sites in the Member States anywhere. Everyone places spent waste elsewhere, I note, with 115 nuclear power plants, so each country must have such a plan, but every country will solve it, just as we will. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-138	Congresswoman is entitled to the rejoinder.
u2017-03-27-139	That's why you can't make long-term promises. I remember from the pro-state days when there was a civil protest about Paks I. Then they reassured those who raised this problem that there was no need to worry, and then Russia, the Soviet Union, takes back the spent fuel. After a while, it doesn't matter - I'm sorry - what effect, but this situation has changed. The direction now is to place spent fuel in the territory of that country. We know that the safe storage of a spent fuel has not been solved. The deadline for the degradation of high-activity waste is thousands of years. Such a burden cannot be left to posterity. In addition, we have no idea what it will take to dispose of high-activity waste; it may cost thousands of billions of forints, the price of which is not included in the cost of nuclear power. Nuclear power isn't cheap. Nuclear energy is expensive because it does not include the costs of installation, resolution or high-activity waste.
u2017-03-27-140	Minister János Lázár has the floor.
u2017-03-27-141	Although I am aware of the work that you have done in the field of environmental protection over the last decades, your age precludes you from being able to object to the Kadár dictatorship of the seventies and eighties. On the other hand, I would also like to note that, as the Member States with a nuclear reactor in Western Europe resolve this issue, because it is possible and possible to place it on a temporary basis, so Hungary is dealing with this problem on an ongoing basis. There is no doubt that Member States are seeking to find a final solution in Europe. Why is that? Because, according to some approaches, the placement of this heating element, this waste in Hungary - you know that there is such a scientific approach - is not only a difficulty, but also an opportunity, since secondary and tertiary use gives the nuclear industry the opportunity, according to part of Hungarian scientific research. I have also come across an argument which asks us not to commit to the delivery of the heating element in any way, but to place it in Hungary, because it can be of special value even in second and third use. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-142	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Richárd Hörcsik, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question, "The Treaty of Rome is 60 years old." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-27-143	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, The Roman Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, the predecessor of the European Union, was 60 years old the day before yesterday. What are we celebrating about the 60th anniversary? Well, first of all, my fellow Members, I believe that the Union is the most successful peace project in European history, namely the hostility between the Gauls and the Germans, which has accompanied the wars of the continent for centuries, has already been reported by Julius Caesar two thousand years ago. However, the past 60 years have brought these two peoples together so close that they can only imagine the future together, except football. There has never been a war in the EU and it offers a vision of peace and prosperity, for example, to candidates in the Western Balkans. This is why the declarations that enlargement should be suspended for a certain period of time are so dangerous. Secondly, the Union is also a very successful economic undertaking, because we can travel freely and work freely. However, the free interoperability of internal borders only works as long as the external borders are protected. Today almost everyone acknowledges this, thanks to Hungary in no small part. Dear Minister, The United Kingdom's intention to leave has generated a huge debate on the future of the Union, the basic voice of which was given by the President of the European Commission, who outlined five scenarios. The main problem with this, my fellow Members, is that this would not be the case for the President of the Commission. The Union is based on the common will of the Member States and on the treaty which represents it, and the Treaty is clear in this respect. The European Council is responsible for defining the Union's general policy orientations and priorities. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-144	Thank you. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2017-03-27-145	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, First of all, in relation to the evaluation of the Roman Declaration, let me confirm and repeat what Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said in Rome: From a Hungarian point of view, the adoption of the Roman Declaration on the occasion of the 60-year anniversary is a success, as Hungary has had many views and many approaches to the Hungarian interest in the declaration. I think it is very important, what the Member said in two sentences, that, although there are serious protests, debates and criticisms in the Member States regarding the bureaucracy in Brussels and the leaders of the European Commission today, we have been able to go through the last 70 years in Europe, especially the countries benefiting from the Treaty of Rome for 60 years, without a major war on the continent, the war on the whole continent has not started. This can be seen as the most important success of the existence of the European Union, since the idea and movement itself was born so that the horrors of the first or second world war could not be repeated again. In this respect, we have achieved success. There is also no doubt that if people are asked who have lived in the West or the East at the end of World War II, there has been extensive economic development over the past 70 years, especially in the last 60 years, as a result of this alliance of interests and this value covenant. As regards the future of the alliance, Hungary has a strong position, the alliance must be maintained and maintained in such a way as to strengthen its core values. This is only possible if Member States are able to stand on their own feet, represent their interests, have a strong economy and are able to defend themselves. In the absence of this, it is obvious that the European Union cannot succeed, that the European Community cannot succeed. We are working to ensure that the values that create the community and the legal system that created the free flow of services, capital and labour can survive, while being able to represent the interests of our country as a strong Hungary. I ask the committee to do this. and the congressman's support. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[14.00]]
u2017-03-27-146	Thank you. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-03-27-147	Dear Minister, Sixty years ago, the signature of the Roman treaty in the unit was best expressed by the principle of force. Today, 60 years later, when we remember this great anniversary, which is overshadowed by the Brexit, the withdrawal of the United Kingdom, perhaps another saying is best expressed by doubt in unity. Last week, the Heads of State voted in favour of the unity of Europe both in the twenty-seven, including Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. But as I read the majority of the five scenarios presented by the President of the Commission, it certainly outlines the two-speed Europe and the multi-speed Europe that is unacceptable to us, especially the two-speed Europe. How does Minister see Europe's future? [[Martin Gyöngyösi: One minute!]]
u2017-03-27-148	I give the floor to the Minister.
u2017-03-27-149	Thank you very much, my fellow Member, Mr Gyöngyösi, for helping me to give the answer, which means calling for a time frame. It's not easy to give an answer in one minute, explaining the government's position. Perhaps the debate following the agenda and following the hour for immediate questions and answers may be appropriate, where we will have a debate on the future of EU funds. I would like to underline that Britain's exit from the European Union is a clear serious failure, although I would add that its entry was not an easy process. It was preceded by great debates, and all the time the doubts persisted. The question is whether we will be ready and able to agree on the common points of the future by 31 December, as the European leaders are planning. There's a lot of debate left in this, too. One is one speed, more speed and the question of a two-speed Europe. Europe is still at least two-speed, and we need to get used to the idea that it will be multi-speed, even if we Central Europeans can be at a disadvantage, which is why we need cooperation and cooperation in Central Europe. The year 2017 will be the year for defining the European future, in which all my fellow Members swear they will certainly participate. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-150	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr János Fónagy Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept her identity. [[On the signal of Anita Herringes:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-03-27-151	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State, There's a growing tension in the MVM Group's employees, including us, Pakson, in the nuclear power plant. I mean, you guys promised that in three years, you could expect a 30-percent wage increase for the people who work here. Many believed in those words, and now they feel betrayed when they believe in promises. They feel like they've been walking like the youngest boy in the fairy tale, that he walks, but he doesn't get it. On March 24th, it was announced that most public companies had a wage agreement, but somehow we didn't, Pakson. Let's look at your statements in order. 27 February 2016: Antal Rogán promised a 40% wage increase. November 4th government info: János Lázár promised a 30-40 percent real wage increase. 24 November: Viktor Orbán signed the agreement in which he commits companies to raise wages. On 18 January 2017, Mr Secretary of State wrote a letter to the heads of state companies asking them to negotiate so that local wage agreements could be concluded. Compared to this, it was a cold shower for the employees of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, that when they receive only a 6 per cent increase in 3 years, then they receive a 17 per cent increase on 17 March, but somehow they do not see where this is compared to 30 per cent. Everyone at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant expects accurate, precise and balanced work. Then I guess somewhere they can expect their government to have a minimum of what they promised in the press to keep. Last year, the employees of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant set a record of 91.38 percent power utilisation on the table. This is done with the most accurate safety and technical data. I think that if they're working disciplined, then they've got a task of giving the government what they promised in the press, a 30-percent wage increase. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2017-03-27-152	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-03-27-153	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, in December 2016, the government agreed to increase the minimum wage by 15 per cent, to HUF 127 500, and the lowest wage of skilled workers by 25 per cent, all by reducing the wage contributions by 5 per cent. With this, the government has announced the most significant increase in income since the regime change, the biggest increase in wages. Following the competition agreement, as the Ministry of Development exercising the ownership rights of most public companies, we immediately started negotiations on wage increases for employees in the public sector. In this context, we made a government referral, and then the Minister for Development sent a letter to more than 220 companies, according to the government's order, requesting that the company's leaders, with the representation of employees, start negotiations without delay and, as a result, report agreements. By the way, the government has suggested that companies conclude a three-year wage agreement, which has also not been the case in the last 25 years. On this basis, some 220 companies announced the outcome of the agreements, including MVM and its related Paks, and in this context some 80 companies received a significant budget supplement. If the congresswoman will allow me, I'll continue in the next minute.
u2017-03-27-154	I give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2017-03-27-155	Thank you very much. Our problem is that the 17 percent offer is still very, very far from 30 percent. We really do expect the employees of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant to do disciplined work. Then it can't be that they feel - and now I'm literally saying what they think - that they are seen as fools here in Budapest. That they have to work accurately, disciplinedly, and then they don't get 30 percent, but they have 17 percent eyeballs. And rumors have already started in the field of the power plant and among the family members in the market, that when Trinity, the company of Szijjárto's best friend, can receive HUF 1.5 billion from the Paks Nuclear Power Plant in a year, I think the minimum is that the employees will receive the wage increase as well. And if the rumor is true that there was a company in the MVM group that the trade unions also wrote that they heard that they had to pay more than HUF 3.5 billion for the Olympics, then it is really outrageous that they are not offering them a 30 percent wage increase, but 17 percent. To do this, you have to look the workers in the eye and say that they deserve what they deserve, not that they don't get it. Thank you.
u2017-03-27-156	Secretary of State has the rejoinder.
u2017-03-27-157	Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the Paks power plant is in an exceptional situation in Hungary, since there is only one such one in the country at the moment, and the workers employed there have a very long training period and a very big responsibility for the work done. Therefore, Congresswoman, the youngest boy is currently looking for four to six times the national average, so they are not in such a very orphaned situation. Make no mistake. The work they have done is exceptional, but the wages they have received so far have also been exceptional. [[One voice: That's right!]] Therefore, 30 percent - we emphasized that everywhere - is average, some more. For example, at the post office, it's 34 percent, because they earn far below the national average. But make no mistake, you can't relate to each other. It is obvious that the Paks should be measured for their own work, for drivers, for drivers or for postmen. What I would like to draw attention to, and what I am asking for help in, is the negotiations. I ask everyone to be calm, the negotiations are going on, and I trust that, like the rest of the country's companies, MVM and Paks, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] effective wage negotiations can be conducted. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-158	Ladies and gentlemen, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question. It's an address. The Minister appointed Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás as a response to an urgent public mission. I'm asking if you'll accept his identity. [[On the signal of Márton Gyöngyösi:]] Congressman says yes. You have the floor, Congressman. [[14.10]]
u2017-03-27-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Since June 2013, when the settlement government bond programme was launched, more than 15 thousand foreigners have obtained a residence permit. Initially, this took place in two steps, these people were first granted residence permits, and then, six months later, they got the right of establishment, the residence permit, which provided freedom of movement within the Schengen area, and was meant to live forever. The Ministry of Interior itself has requested that two steps be taken to obtain a residence permit, because you have only 20 days to assess whether there is a national security risk for these people. You asked for it to take place in two steps, not in twenty days, but in at least six months to determine the existence of a national security risk. Then came July 2016, when the dissatisfaction with this settlement government bond business had already reached high, and suddenly it was necessary to turn Rogán Antal's business upside down, which is why it was introduced to allow foreign residents to obtain a residence permit in a circle, in one step. This is how the right of establishment was granted not only in one step, but also extended the range of persons entitled to family reunification. Now, on 31 March, you have suspended the extension of the settlement government bonds in a government decree, but I do not know why the law itself has not been revoked, the law itself has not been suspended, Mr. Secretary of State. I would like to ask whether you know how many foreign secret service agents and how many terrorists have entered Hungary and the territory of the European Union thanks to you, thanks to the establishment government bond business. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-27-160	Secretary Tibor Pogácsás has the floor.
u2017-03-27-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, When drawing up the settlement government bond, the Hungarian government examined all the experiences and opportunities followed by the other 16 European Union countries, since the construction similar to the settlement bond operates in 16 countries in Europe. Our goal was clearly to ensure the best possible security. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Get as much money as possible!]] Bringing the country to an investment that is economically worthwhile, bringing into the country investors who, through their activities, contribute to job creation and to the improvement of the economy. The Parliament adopted the conditions necessary for the issue of the settlement policy. Applicants for the purchase of the settlement policy shall undergo a four-fold filter. So who needs the settlement policy [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: How many did filter four refuse? Seven, if I remember correctly.]] , the Immigration and Asylum Office, the Counter-Terrorism Centre and the Constitutional Protection Office and the police. Therefore, through a strict and narrow filter, those who require a settlement policy will reach the possibility of buying a settlement policy, ensuring that those whose admission to the country or the European Union would not be adequate or allowed with the greatest possible security. The Member also knows that companies involved in the mediation of the settlement policy are selected and approved by the Parliament's Economic Committee at an open meeting. Here in the committee, your representatives are also present, so you can see the process of issuing settlement bonds. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-03-27-162	Thank you. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-03-27-163	Dear Secretary of State, Your answer cannot be accepted for many reasons. First of all, you are seriously mistaken when you say that the Hungarian settlement government bond programme is similar to that of the European Union. That doesn't work. Yes, there are countries in which such programmes are operated, such as England, such as many other Western European countries, but everywhere, the acquisition of government bonds and the acquisition of residence permits are linked to concrete investments, job-creating investments. Unlike in Hungary, where there are no conditions, no restrictions in the current system. Just as it is quite amazing that you refer to this procedure, which happened here in this Parliament, to bring in a law registered by Antal Rogán, the two-thirds vote, and then the committee supervised by him decides who can receive marketing rights. It's a shame and a complete dog comedy that you guys overheard. Not to mention the national security risk posed by this programme. You know, Mr. Secretary, how many criminals have entered this country. I would just like to mention Ghaith Pharaon, who is a terrorist sponsoring international terrorist organizations, and your, I don't know, how many security nets he went through like a knife. I can't accept your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-27-164	The Secretary of State has the opportunity to answer.
u2017-03-27-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, As I said, so the National Assembly can monitor and monitor the process of obtaining a settlement policy. Connecting the Pharaon case here is an obvious slip, as you know very well that Pharaon didn't have a settlement policy. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: Same procedure!]] By the way, the issue of the settlement policy and the purchase of the settlement policy are, I believe, a rather expensive process for someone to want to smuggle terrorists into Europe on this route. There is a significantly cheaper method for this, and this method, human trafficking, continues, while Hungary is doing everything in its power to close the southern border of Europe in this direction, to protect Europe from illegal entry into the country by people whose history and intentions cannot be followed. We are also doing everything we can to ensure the safety of Hungarian citizens and European citizens. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-166	Ladies and gentlemen, Mátyás Firtl, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. How does the government implement water protection and sustainable water management? It's an address. Minister Tibor Pogácsás has also appointed Minister of State to respond to the urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-27-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, March 22nd was World Water Day. 82 percent of the earth's water mass is saltwater in the oceans and seas of the world. The golden reserve of the Earth's fresh water supply is the groundwater. This is estimated to be 16 percent of the earth's water mass by water scientists, while the remaining 2 percent is made up of surface fresh water on our planet and the atmosphere and water content of living beings. Although two thirds of the planet's surface is covered with water, less than three percent of it is fresh water. In addition, our surface waters are in a frozen state in the glaciers of our planet and in permanent snow and ice-covered areas. This means that only 0.1 percent of the planet's total water supply must be shared by mankind, that part of our wildlife, whose survival depends on surface fresh water. Experts consider interstate conflicts to be the number one global risk, but water problems are the biggest risk in their impact for years, which can be seen from several surveys. The risk of the water crisis prevents many other risks, such as the spread of infectious diseases, weapons of mass destruction and conflicts between states. Dear Secretary of State, In connection with the World Water Day, at the invitation of the Minister for the Environment of the Republic of Poland, Mr Jan Szyszko, the four ministers responsible for water affairs in Visegrád and Bulgaria and Romania took part jointly in the World Water Day events in Warsaw on 22 March 17 and at the Festival Conference entitled "Vistula Year" 2017. That is why I am asking Mr Secretary of State what the government is doing at national and international level to address the increasing pressures on water resources and the challenges arising from the effects of climate change, what the government is doing to ensure sustainable water management. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-168	Secretary Tibor Pogácsás has the opportunity to answer. [[14.20]]
u2017-03-27-169	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as Mr President has pointed out, one of the most important strategic issues of our time and one of the most important international issues is the protection of drinking water, drinking water supplies and access to drinking water. We all know from Hungary that it is rich in surface water, but not only in surface water, but also in clean drinking water stored below the surface, and it is a rich country, and the protection of these waters is extremely important. About 95-96 percent of our surface waters come from across the border. So while we are extremely rich in water, it can also be said that Hungarian water supply is at risk, because most of the surface water comes from beyond the borders of the country. It is therefore very important that the government prepares properly and prepares appropriate programmes for the protection of drinking water and water, as well as for the control of floods. Accordingly, a national river basin management plan has been drawn up to ensure the priorities for water protection for the period 2015-21. Its aim is to improve the condition of the waters, to prevent deterioration and to ensure the utilisation of long-term water resources. A plan for the management of flood risk in Hungary, which is in line with the framework and guidelines of the European Union, has been completed. The aim of the plan is to reduce and reduce the risk of flooding. The government also adopted the national water strategy, the Kvassay Jenő plan, which summarises the main objectives of the 2030 period. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-170	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2017-03-27-171	Thank you for the floor. In the context of the Budapest Water Summit, KDNP pointed out that water is one of the most important strategic resources of the future, and therefore particular care must be taken to protect it, in order to safeguard this treasure. But it is also obvious - as the Secretary of State's reply has shown - that the treatment of our surface waters, our rivers, only for Hungary, is not a solution, and it is therefore necessary to have a full international cooperation in order to maintain this. I trust, as Mr Secretary of State said in his reply, that the government will continue to maintain these initiatives and not only seek to preserve our water base, but also to support international cooperation in the waters flowing from the neighbouring country in order to preserve fresh water. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-172	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
u2017-03-27-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, As Mr President mentioned, there was a conference in Warsaw that was not only about drinking water in general or water, and it was not only a festive event, but also a discussion at this meeting on the experiences of the preparation of the second river basin management plan, the application of the Water Framework Directive and the review due in 2019. The countries that were present agreed that the basic objectives of the Water Framework Directive continue to apply, the state of good waters must be achieved. It was agreed that the Visegrád countries would draw up a common position. This will help to improve our capacity to promote interest in specific, non-relevant or counter-interested issues in the region. Following the conference, representatives of the present countries also adopted a joint declaration which will obviously help to implement this process. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-174	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Does theft help? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept his identity.
u2017-03-27-175	Thank you, I accept.
u2017-03-27-176	Congressman says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-27-177	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We learned that since 2010, 78,000 babies have been born abroad. 15% of Hungarian babies are born abroad. More frightening is the fact that by the middle of the century there will be around 7 million people in Hungary and 4.5 million people by the end of the century. No, I just want to ask you about that. You've noticed real problems before. This is usually the result of a good programme for the European Union. I would like to ask your opinion on such an EU programme, some of its spending, so not on demographic issues, but on these three spendings. The Institute for Family, Youth and Population Policy, an institution of the Ministry of Human Capacities, which has already been abolished, has spent HUF 10 billion to solve these issues or problems. I'd like to ask your opinion on three spendings. In one of them 20 million forints were given to an art nail building company to pre-grade the professionals involved in the program. Then they gave it to an event planning company - it's scheduled for the company, it doesn't care about anything else; but it probably doesn't deal with it either, because it's registered in a location where there are 1,500 other companies in a downtown real estate - to supply a file number of HUF 20 million to place a stamp on the documents of the projects, a file number. A commercial real estate company was given a similar amount to monitor documents. My question is whether you agree with this or whether you are examining these spendings. Thank you.
u2017-03-27-178	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-03-27-179	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I am pleased that demographic issues are also important for the LMP. I think that after seven years in Parliament, it has been delayed, but it is right to recognise that this must be dealt with. In recent years, the Hungarian government has increased the budget's annual funding to support families by a hundred billion dollars, and we want to help them raise children. As regards the other questions of the Member, we have become accustomed to you not always seeking to speak the truth. Questions asked here, but I am not sure that these questions are also in the context of reality, but they contain generalities, as one or another of the sentences you have said at many, many other press events, so obviously they cannot be answered in substance. However, if you are asking questions and talking about credibility, let me refer you back, Congressman, to your own family land affairs. A few months ago, a great deal of public attention was focused on this when he said that he would give up his mandate as a representative if it turned out that his family had more than 6.5 hectares of land. And it turns out that your family doesn't have 6.5 acres of land, but 14 acres of land, and you're still sitting here in Parliament. He said with a loud voice that he would guarantee this and even give up his mandate as a representative. Explain this to me, honourable Member. You don't give up your mandate, you sit here asking questions, and you don't have 6.5 hectares to manage your family, you own 14 acres. Many people would also be interested in it, and would also be curious about the fact that you wanted to bid on 150 hectares of land within the family, that 30 million forints were deposited, while you called it a dirt dog and the corruption case of Fidesz-KDNP everywhere. If you consider this to be the case, then where did you get three plots, the total value of which is more than HUF 300 million and the area is 150 hectares, is HUF 30 million? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-180	I'll give the congressman the opportunity to rejoinder.
u2017-03-27-181	This was a very, very important comment, because the government here in Parliament acknowledged - I don't know if you're expecting the government, but an official of the government has admitted - that the person who buys state land is a hustler and steals. There's a lot of them. If you'd listened to what I said, you'd know that I said that if anyone in my family bought a square foot of state land, I'd resign. It didn't happen. However, I would ask you once again if you would like to understand that you agree that the background institution of the EMMI gives 20 million forints to pre-eminent or agree to the monitoring of documents for a commercial real estate company and to agree to give 20 million forints to an event planning company registered in Szinyei Merse street with 1500 other companies for the provision of an archive number. Thank you.
u2017-03-27-182	Mr. Secretary of State is entitled to the rejoinder. [[14.30]]
u2017-03-27-183	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You didn't solve my question. So he was talking about 6.5 acres, but somehow he didn't want to go to 14 acres for you. The artificial nail companies didn't work for you once. They said the same thing, the same story, only then the socialists. I can see that even despite the criticism of your fellow party members, you are happy to rub your hands on the socialists and attend joint discussions on the launch in 2018, and your fellow parties are condemning you in public for this. So here in Parliament, you obviously have to say something strong. But the socialists also said that land was also used by an artificial nail-building company, when it turned out that it was actually a goldfish farmer, who had previously been driven out of farming by a pocket contract by an Italian owner. He had a degree in this regard, a lifestyle in agriculture, and all you said was that he was an artificial nail builder. Unfortunately, neither your question nor any statement can be believed in this Parliament, and when you have an embarrassing question as to why you didn't resign, when you don't own 6.5 hectares, but 14 hectares of your family, you just keep quiet about it. Thank you very much. [[It's a lot of noise. The president's ringing the bell. Dr. István Apáti intervenes. It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-184	Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the immediate questioning period. We will resume our session. It follows the political debate on the use of EU funds for Hungary for the period 2014-2020, which was initiated by the government. Opinion on the initiative of the political debate V/14405. was given to them. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, I would ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to explain the course of the political debate.
u2017-03-27-185	Dear Parliament, First, a statement from the representative of the Government will be made for a total period of 40 minutes. The speakers of each political group will then speak in 15-15 minutes. Then the first independent Member may speak. The remaining time frame will then be open to further speeches by its representatives. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate.
u2017-03-27-186	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the most important rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate is expected to be in the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches, with the exception of responding to personal concerns, should be included in the timeframe. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. I would like to inform you that MEPs with a parliamentary background, if they have indicated their intention to speak to the particular faction, may speak out against the time frame of their faction. MEPs who do not have a political background and who sign up directly may use a speaking time equal to the speaking time per independent representative. On the meeting room information board, interested parties can monitor the use of the time frame. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to explain each time frame.
u2017-03-27-187	Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that the Fidesz, KDNP, Jobbik and LMP groups have initiated a doubling of their timeframe, so that the time frame is divided as follows. The Fidesz Group has 164 minutes, 45 minutes for the MSZP Group, 76 minutes for the KDNP Group, 82 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 48 minutes for the LMP Group and 10 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2017-03-27-188	Thank you. Dear Parliament, First, the government's debate will take place in a 40-minute timeframe. I give the floor to Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office.
u2017-03-27-189	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, First of all, I would like to thank our fellow Member, Erzsébet Schmuck, who, perhaps a good year ago, asked the government to use some HUF 8900 billion as a cooperation between the European Commission and Hungary, the European Union and Hungary between 2014 and 2020, and the executive authority must account for the legislative process on this resource, the use of this money. In order to do this, we will no longer hold the first parliamentary debate day, and we will regularly inform my fellow Members about the state of the European Union's cash register under the partnership agreement with the European Commission, the way money is drawn up. If I may, in addition to the written information provided for the past period, I would like to add a brief oral amendment, hoping that the debate can be useful for all of us. It may be useful because they receive an objective picture based on written reports of what we believe the Hungarian State is aiming for with this money, how we can use it, how it is used in Hungary. During today, a thorough study by KPMG was uploaded to the Széchenyi 2020 website, accessible to all my fellow Members and to the entire Hungarian public. This is a multi-hundred-page professional material which aims to evaluate the use of resources between 2007 and 14 The main question is, and we tried to answer that with the involvement of experts, what the Hungarian society used this amount and how it used it, and how it was used in terms of the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian future. However, before I discuss in detail the use of this amount, I would recommend two approaches of principle. One is that, in this House, the government that took office in 2014, has a continuous duty to warn members of the legislation, both in terms of content and language, that this money is not a gift from the European Union, not from the European Union, and we will receive these funds at the very least. After all, in 2004 the aid for catching up was targeted aid. When Hungary joined the European Union, it significantly limited its own economic scope, its own social space for economic and social integration. I think this is important because, of course, Polish and Hungarian examples will come up during the debate, or statements from one of the Commissioners of the European Union, who said that Germany is not a net contributor but a net beneficiary of these resources. But I would not recommend this approach to the question of whose money this is; we will either get these funds back, these funds are the money of the taxpayers of the European Union, or the legitimate source of Hungarian voters. I think that when we joined this economic interest and value community in 2004 in order to catch up and eliminate differences, Hungary has also made a sacrifice, not only those net contributor Member States that are constantly contributing to the catch-up funds. The two numbers, or the two economic situations, could be measured together if we could estimate precisely what kind of capital dumps Hungary has allowed for the example of Hungary in order to join the European Union, open the market, open the border to the country, or even how lightly Hungarian workers get sucked out of Hungary, or what kind of services enter the country without customs or taxes. Then it would be possible to measure what we have given; for we have given. I would like to point out to my fellow Members that what we get is not a gift money, but we have worked for it ourselves, and we have also contributed to making the European Union a single market, a single community, a single economic force. How much someone has won on this is difficult to judge at this stage of development. I think everyone today benefits from these resources. Countries that receive this money will benefit from it, and countries that pay these funds will benefit. Here I bring up Commissioner Oettinger's statement, who said that net contributors are net beneficiaries. Polish and Hungarian national banking studies say that when Hungary supports an engineering company in this development cycle for example, it is 80-90 percent likely in Poland and Hungary that the machine purchased from European Union sources represents German-made German technology and will be a purchase that increases German taxpayers. So this source is returned through procurement, through development, through property, through companies, through contractors. I therefore think that, of course, in the interests of the great idea, the great idea, the common Europe, many have a capacity to catch up, and many say that there is also a need to live a common life, but at the same time there are very carefully calculated economic interests behind these resources. [[14.40]] What is it that we need to pay attention to in a way that goes beyond previous debates? I'd like to talk about territorial differences here. I have made a number of speeches, and I have also said an expo here in Parliament with regard to the purpose of using the main funds. If you ask what the government's aim is in 2017, you will reduce territorial differences. What territorial differences am I talking about? Orbán said, as Prime Minister, that if someone looks at Hungary's ability to generate GDP between 1867 and 1990 or 2017, he can see precisely that the difference between the Western world and Hungary has never fallen significantly. Perhaps two times, in the early 10s, before the outbreak of World War I and just before the outbreak of World War II, we reached or approached Austria's GDP from below. We have not been able to reach this level either before or since then, so that serious territorial differences and social consequences between the Eastern European countries and Western Europe remain. These territorial differences must be mitigated. These sources might help you with that. In the first cycle, planned by the Socialists who are now missing, these resources have reduced or increased this distance, but the aim is to reduce distance. What is the job of a Hungarian legislative, parliamentary or Hungarian executive authority official? Carry out a policy that will bring Hungarian voters closer to the wages, the standard of living that is in Western Europe. As a child, I remember that in the Kádár system we were deceived by the relative well-being of society in the eighties, and they always accepted the comparison of how Hungary lives compared to the Hungarian 1950s. But no one has ever conducted an objective investigation into where the Kádár system has gone and where Austria has gone. Austria was a Soviet-occupied country until 1955. Hungary tried to be free in 56. If we put on the balance what Austria has done between 55 and 1990 and what Hungary has done between 1956 and 1990, then the assessment of the difference and the understanding of the difference is clear to everyone. These territorial differences have not disappeared in the last 27 years. In Hungary, a few percent GDP growth is certain that it is not enough to overcome the difference, to achieve a GDP above or below 5 per cent, it would require continuous GDP growth, and for long years, so not only a one-off 4-5 per cent economic growth, but a sustained economic growth above 5 per cent, according to the most pessimist ones. According to optimists, perhaps 4 percent is enough, but in any case it would take 4-5-6 percent of continuous economic growth to approach or at least have a chance to approach the quality of life that motivates voters to cast their votes on different political groups for their own personal future. Then, of course, there are territorial differences within the country. Perhaps you are aware of the latest analyses of the KSH, which is about the fact that there is a large difference between the wage average, wage conditions, labour market situation and social conditions of Western Hungary, and there is a difference between the social conditions of a settlement in eastern Hungary. I'm just saying, for example, I'm not talking about people of active age, I'm talking about people of care. In my city, the elderly, pensioners have 9.5 thousand of our countrymen, the average pension is 113 thousand forints, in the small villages in the area only 100 thousand forints, and in the larger cities in Western Hungary the average pension is 140-150 thousand forints. These territorial differences have not disappeared, and in some comparisons they have become smaller than they have been in the last 27 years. And, of course, the government's goal is also to provide an opportunity to catch up to 50 for those areas that are well over 30, so we want to provide access to the settlements and their environment in a particularly difficult situation. Today's parliamentary debate is an opportunity for consultation and consultation. Much less consultation and consultation took place in the period 2007-14. Now, before and during the agreement allowing the financial framework to be drawn down, the Hungarian Government considers it important to be related to interest representatives and public bodies. Thus, the Chamber of Industry and Trade is constantly being consulted in order to get the resources to the right place. So what I can say is that the aim of development policy is to eliminate territorial differences, reverse lag, create a chance of catching up with a continuous consultation and consultation. We who sit on this side of the horseshoe, and I firmly believe that whoever sits on the other side of the horseshoe is also meant to be strong in Hungary, and that in strengthening the country it is necessary to remedy painful economic and competitiveness problems. The result of these competitiveness problems has already been discussed on several occasions by the legislation, and the government is constantly working with it, but it is certain that the available development framework must be used to do so. What's real? The reality is that between 2010-14, the Hungarian budget was not or only slightly in a position to finance development directly from the Hungarian taxpayers' money. Developments were possible in 2010-12-13 only and only from the resources recovered from the European Union, and we are between 14 and 20 in a position to be able to open domestic development resources in addition to EU funds. So the money that we spent is 9700 billion, and together with the support for rural development and agricultural policy, that money, compared to 9700 billion, is now 12 thousand billion, which we will spend in 14-20, is something to be taken into account in the development of the country. Before we move on to the current situation, the current state of the day, the state of the March 31st or the end of March, let me indicate - and the parentheses open - that there was a very serious technical problem with macro and microeconomic consequences. This is that in 2013, the European Commission reported to Parliament, the Council and the Member States that there will be countries who cannot draw the full available framework from the Cohesion Funds. At that time, we were in danger of having only 60 percent of Hungary. Over the past four years, we have managed to achieve the hard work of 1800-2000 Hungarian state officials that we have not lost a penny, and we have been able to use the framework to 100 percent and 99-100 percent for every program that has performed the worst. In this sense, Hungary has performed best from the countries around it. Romania has serious difficulties, has 30 percent losses, but other countries in the area, Slovakia, Poland and the Czech Republic also face difficulties and even certain net losses. So it's not that he can live or survive with the framework, it's that he couldn't even use the open development framework. The Hungarian state apparatus's functionality and, of course, Hungarian fantasy and creativity are praised for our ability to put out applications even in autumn 2015 in order to draw funds, and although we are exposed to 5-7 years of control over the next period, I believe that the requirement of regularity could also be met. There were 70 560 successful applicants for HUF 9200 billion between 2007-14. I note here that this number is, of course, a fraud, because if you look at how many municipalities there are in Hungary, if you look at how many businesses there are in Hungary, and out of the operating companies there were 44 thousand businesses ready and able to call and develop funds - the other question is that some of these funds were spent not on development, but on compensation for loss of income, to counter and reduce the losses of the 2008 crisis. Hungary spent 3700 billion of this budget on agriculture between 2007-14. Of the 9700, 3,700 went to agriculture, and according to the most well-meaning calculations, 5 percent of this was development, and the vast majority was income loss and income deprivation. So we didn't develop agriculture, but we complemented the incomes of agricultural operators. If you look at what productivity we can now provide for a hectare, what is the average yield per hectare, and how much was before the start of the accession and the start of the subsidies, you will not find any increase. This is a serious problem if our common social goal is to catch up and catch up with those who are ahead of us. Three questions need to be answered. When do we pay the money? How are we gonna pay the money? And who are we going to pay the money to? When? The present report answers your question, because the government made a serious commitment when it said that until 31 March 2017, the total framework, which is now 8900 billion, plus land-based agricultural subsidies and other territorial subsidies, will apply for HUF 8921 billion by 31 March. Today 99 percent of applications are launched, and until Friday, the full framework will be announced as the first round of applications. This is a 5-year advantage compared to the 2007-14 period. We're five years earlier than we were before. So we have a five-year advantage, since five years from now, the programmes have to be closed. What does this give you the right opportunity to present all the applications now? First, everyone can see what the state wants or what it can spend the money for. [[14.50]] I must always note here that the European Commission has a decisive influence on the use of resources. But we can show what we think the government, the executive power, is saying the resources should be spent on. In this Parliament there is a place for a debate today and in the future on what is not needed, and instead what is needed, so it is possible to pursue a target debate, because there will be and there may be remaining amounts. This is the case, that every tender has been put out, suitable for us to be able to make these investments at a good pace, normally, without haste, with good planning. Because my fellow Members should not have any illusions, the situation that in 2014 and 15 we still issued applications instead of closing and clearing them must have technical, technological and qualitative Handicaps. There must be technical, technological and qualitative problems, there are projects, there are programmes where they are still being taken over, or when they are put into service or put into service properly, optimized. So it gives us an appropriate advantage that we have been able to put out all the applications by now. More importantly, because I think that we can now, more importantly, that 53 percent of the available budget has been committed. This means that there is a decision of HUF 4400 billion, there is a contract, there is a commitment. This supported 20,000 winners, 20,000 winners out of all 120,000. The 120-124 thousand interested are important because it shows that money is probably marked in the right direction. There would have been no 124,000 interested in this source if this had not been the case or the direction of labelling was wrong. Therefore, there is no tender where there is no over-subscription, and this shows that the target audience was well-directed in the allocation of funds. So, when's the time? I think that the government has made a good decision to write everything out now because of the strengthening of competitiveness, maintaining economic growth and the proper, rational use of resources. I think it is a good decision on the part of the government, too, and I ask for their confirmation support that we will try to decide on these calls for proposals in the next year and a half, and that there will still be plenty of time for implementation, since the final settlement date for 2014-20 is 2022. Therefore, there will be plenty of time for these programmes and projects to be implemented. How's that? We are resistant about your question. In this room and in this circle, it would be a mistake not to tell the truth or the truth by a minister. Obviously, we are in a difficult situation primarily because the rules governing the use of money, who, under what conditions, can be supported, are essentially determined by the European Commission. So Hungary has a limited margin of manoeuvre in the ability to sign, label and deliver the money to the beneficiaries using individual procedures. I believe that, with a clear conscience, in political terms, we are standing here before Parliament in a form that can be given a hundred percent responsibility, and we are doing everything we can to make it possible for municipalities, businesses and civil society organisations to obtain resources as easily as possible. So we are not building it, but we are trying to break down bureaucratic obstacles, but I add that the European Commission's rules of procedure, its control mechanism, are at the moment, in 2017, to initiate checks that are being carried out in 2007, i.e. 10 years ago, with programmes being monitored and sanctioned, which, I think, does not make this legislation and this legislative environment certain and predictable. This is obviously made more difficult by the rules of the Public Procurement Act, which has not become simpler under the new directive introduced in Hungary, perhaps giving a greater opportunity to enforce national interests. So how do we try to speed up the resources, try to simplify them, and what is extremely important: we try to decentralize them. This government - and this is obviously judged by voters this time next year - is subject to many accusations that it is constantly centralising. But I urge my fellow Members to note that within the framework of the regional operational programme, which is divided up by the counties and given to cities with county rights, we are decentralizing a budget of HUF 1300 billion, because the decision of the county councils, the funding needs of the county or county town, are fully respected by the government. We do not override the county's development policy goals, but we try to enforce it in our procedures. So we are trying to simplify access not only for Hungarian businesses, but also for Hungarian municipalities and public actors. Here's another approach, and this is the one for whom? It's a question of who to get this source to. Between 2007-14 we have learned that the European institutional system and the rule system do a lot to ensure that the domestic, i.e. Hungarian legs of net contributors, contractors, operators, economic beneficiaries, suppliers who export to Hungary, or from whom we import, are placed in a favourable position. A large proportion of the resources of the first development period flowed back to Germany, Austria, through various pumps. We now have a duty to do everything we can to bring this resource to Hungarian businesses. I'll give you a very simple example. 16 percent of economic development resources were transferred to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises between 2007-14. According to the most pessimistic criticisms with us, 57-58 percent of the resources are being transferred to the Hungarian SME sector today. Our goal is 60-65 percent, but according to experts who do not sympathise with us and criticize us, 57-58 percent of the resources, compared to the previous 15-16, are sent to Hungarian SMEs. From this point forward, the question is not who we intend to send the money to, but whether the receiving medium is suitable for applying and complicated. It will be worth it to you, among whom there are slowly a number of experts on the way European Union funds are being used, to look at the EMCDDA study, which describes the fact that the Hungarian entrepreneurial medium was only able to receive the funds with reservations. There are few Hungarian companies who, for example, have been able to carry out a successful R &amp; D or innovation project, because they were usually multinational companies or companies that are essentially controlled abroad. So we also need to open the source because I believe that it was not a lack of interest, but that these companies were not given the opportunity, that a company did not have the opportunity to develop itself, that it was deprived of its development, because there was a multinational global capital pump in Hungary as part of EU funds. So our goal is to ensure that the Hungarian entrepreneurial sector is substantially and significantly strengthened from these sources. The up-to-date data is March 20, as I have just indicated, the full framework is essentially set out. The contracted project is 20,444, and the project with payment is 11 thousand. Last year, the state's goal was to pay some HUF 2000 billion. This year Hungary's aim is to make a HUF 2200-2700 billion payment out of the HUF 8921 billion. If we pay 2000 billion each year, we will pay 2000 to 2000 to 2000 to 2000 to 2000 billion in 18 to 19, which is practical for the first year to 2020 when the impact of these funds will be reduced or moderate. Hungary takes over the V4 Presidency in the summer, and the government is preparing to make the EU budget after 2020 the main topic of the V4 Presidency. Here we will need long and thorough negotiations within our country and with other countries, because we believe that after 2020, funding will change substantially. I don't believe these sources are going to go away, so make no mistake. The European Union is a much more sophisticated institutional structure than to eliminate something immediately, but it is transforming to a very significant extent. We need to present two directions of the transformation with the Hungarian entrepreneurial and candidate medium. One is that the era of reimbursable subsidies is coming, so there will be no free money, and the rate of grants will be significantly reduced. Secondly, the Commission's bureaucrats are doing their best to try to centralise the distribution of money. In Parliament, it is now the subject of a debate day on how to distribute this money in its content and form. Imagine a situation where not only will Parliament not be able to express its opinion on the distribution of money, but the government will not be able to give its opinion on the distribution of money, because in Brussels, in an office, a department head will decide which source to receive. I always draw my fellow Members' attention to the fact that these funds are, after all, ideologically labelled money. So, in addition to or behind the provision of money, support, there is a world view on the basis of which these resources should be allocated, say, in the area of social catch-up, integration, and chance creation. When the Ministry of Human Resources allocates resources, the customer side of those resources at the moment represents a completely different worldview, social structure and thinking in Brussels than in which we try to organise our country, for example, in the spirit and interest of a work-based society. You can look at what kind of subsidies would go into receiving support for inactive people, while government policy applies to active support. Hungary has paid a large proportion of EU funds to inactive social groups, particularly under the rule of the socialists, in order to obtain a vote, while today's social policy promotes work-based society, the primacy of work and the support of active people. [[15.00]] If I would like to detail the previous comparison, I can say that 2009 is the same date of development, i.e. the same date of development, i.e.. 04,. 09,. 14,,. 17; in 2009 it was 74 percent, now it will be 99 percent, in 2009 it was 34 percent, now it is 53 percent, and now it is paid 5 percent in 2009, and now it is 21 percent paid. Hungary does not have to be ashamed of this result in regional or international comparisons either, because Hungary states on 31 March that it will deliver the best results from the V4 countries, which means that in contractual commitments and payments Hungary will also be ahead of Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia, but otherwise we are ahead of all other Central European beneficiaries. In fact, the 27 countries receiving subsidies have the highest volume and magnitude of drawdowns. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry, but I'm In the course of the debate and in the documents made available to you, my colleagues have already indicated the development direction - agricultural subsidies, rural development, environmental protection, energy efficiency, road construction, rail construction - which resources were available and how much funding the institutional system was able to provide by 31 March 2017. If I may, I would like to mention here - not to abuse your patience - now just one subject that is your favourite, and this is the issue of corruption. It would be a mistake to say that, in the case of the allocation of such resources, we could keep corruption completely out of the way, keep the increased interest and motivation for money completely out of the institutional system. There's no way I'd like to say that, because it wouldn't cover reality, and it wouldn't be honest. On the other hand, I think that the European interest and domestic interest coincide in their entirety, that the resources must be spent properly and that the money must be accounted for, that is to be accounted for towards the domestic budget, because this is Hungarian money, part of the Hungarian budget, and that it must also be accounted for towards the budget of the European Union. It is difficult to judge how the opposition's political product should be dealt with, because the figures do not justify and document the large-scale corruption policy statements of my fellow opposition Members this afternoon. Because it increases and enriches the ranks of the opposition - I will give you just one example - a group that founded the Corruption Research Centre, only opposition politicians represent the credibility of this institution, who investigate the economic activity of four people, Lőrinc Mészáros, István Garancsi, István Tiborcz and Lajos Simicska, and look at all Hungarian public procurement and European Union funds for their share of public money. I can say that from 2009 to 2013-2014-2015 their most significant share did not exceed 4.3 percent. So what we have been talking about between Parliament's walls for the last two years, since we have been governing, is not 95 percent of the money, but, with great goodwill and strong poetic exaggeration, 5 percent of the money, which is being discussed at all. When you, the opposition representatives, regularly address cases - and I have prepared an example collection, which is largely linked to this circle, all critical examples - you are asking questions about only 5% of the available resources in their legitimacy and regularity. [[Martin Gyöngyösi: That's four people! György Szilágyi: Four men! Interviews from Jobbik's ranks.]] 95 percent of them don't even ask questions. So for 95 percent... With all due respect, I will listen to you if I have the opportunity, and I ask you to do so in return. [[Márton Gyöngyösi: We advance!]] Thank you very much. So I would just like to say that 95 percent of the resources are not even debated in the Hungarian public speech and in Parliament, because 95 percent is not substantially below the threshold of stimuli. But I'll give you another comparison, because assuming, but not allowing - once again, assuming, but not allowing - that this is the European Union's money, then we have to look at what they think about it. In Hungary, the accounting system is as follows: the applicant receives the notification that he has won, the Hungarian State will advance the money, and the Hungarian State will account for it later with the European Union. So the applicant does not receive the money directly from Brussels, but from the Hungarian budget, which you approve. The Hungarian budget accounts regularly, on a quarterly basis, with the European Commission, there is an annual summary. In the case of invoices sent to the European Commission, the Commission may raise a veto. We send out a hundred percent bill, say, a hundred units of bill, and it is obvious that if the European Commission accepts the invoices, it does not presume an irregularity if it does not accept the invoices, it assumes an irregularity. What I can tell you is that in Hungary, in the first cycle, between 2007 and 2014, the proportion of accounts that the European Commission found to be incorrect was 8 percent, and in the case of 92%, the European Commission does not presume errors, irregularities, corruption or abuse. This ratio has decreased to 3-5 percent since 2014. So, not only would the scale of the irregularity increase, either the irregular accounts, or the European Commission - subject to and not allowing the owner of the money - the presumption that we are now regular or irregular, but the proportion of accounts that the European Commission does not accept is actually decreasing. Of course, we take all opinions and comments seriously on this subject. The Prime Minister has declared zero tolerance to corruption in the government and everywhere, so the smallest case or the most partial case, or even the case that has been chewed like a bone for five years, is taken seriously by the government and properly investigated. Of course, the government has its own audit apparatus, Kehi; there is the European Union resource control department; the State Audit Office has carried out numerous investigations and evaluations; and there are also EU bodies, OLAF, EUTAF and others. The fact is that the biggest corruption associated with European Union funds is the theft of four-way cars by socialists. [[Mrs. Loránt Violinist intervenes.]] When EU funds for metro 4 were effectively stolen. There is no greater scandal in the European Union regarding the use of EU funds, let alone in Hungary. Well, I ask the Honourable Parliament - the last few comments are probably more suitable for more intensive debate, but I ask the Honourable Parliament - to evaluate, consider, and await the honourable proposals of the legislation. Thank you very much for the attention of my fellow Members. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-190	Thank you. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. In the first round, the keynote speakers will be held within 15-15 minutes of each group of representatives. The Fidesz Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Erik Bánki.
u2017-03-27-191	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about a very important topic in Parliament today; I am particularly pleased that on the government's initiative today we can have a day of debate on the principles, the strategy of the use of EU funds in the period 2014-2020, and what the government has done over the past few years, and about what applicants can expect, especially municipalities and businesses, over the coming years. As Minister said, a very serious strategic change took place after 2010 when governance was taken over, since the announcements during socialist-free democrat governments were completely removed from social and entrepreneurship needs, and they did not take into account how Hungary could be caught up in the first place, how to increase economic performance and how to raise the standard of living of Hungarian people, but focused primarily on how to put in place businesses that were close to the government by the applicants. It is no coincidence that, in the period 2007-2013, it did not reach 30 percent of the amount of aid for business recovery, business catching up and competitiveness, and perhaps this is not a coincidence that the government's focus is therefore the small and medium-sized enterprise sector, as we would like to achieve by 2020 the number of small and medium-sized enterprises with export potential, for example, from 3 to 4 thousand to 10 thousand now. [[15.10]] The Minister mentioned that today's study of the KPMG, which is examining this period of 2007-13, was uploaded. I would like to address some of the essential elements. Before all this, I would like to say and confirm that our position is that European Union subsidies should not come to Hungary as alms, not as charity, but for Hungary, for Hungarian society, for Hungarian businesses; not only because, as the Minister said, those countries, if we look at them narrowly, can be considered as net contributors, but if we take into account the additional effects that will be brought back to these countries through their various companies, companies and local domestic taxpayers, then we cannot actually talk about net contributor countries. We can talk about countries who are able to use these resources effectively, and we can talk about countries who are unable to spend these resources effectively, cannot promote social inclusion from this, cannot reduce territorial development disparities, and cannot improve the competitiveness of their domestic businesses, and we can also talk about the recapitalisation process that all businesses in the Central and Eastern European region, unfortunately, do desperately need as a result of 50 years of communism. If we look at the KPMG analysis of the past period, we can clearly see that the report itself states that Hungary was one of the first to be able to commit its full support. The Minister mentioned in his expo that in 2010, speaking in the Central and Eastern European context, we were in Czech, as it seemed that we would not be able to tie down 60% to 70% of the available resources. This is why it was appropriate for the government to make a series of decisions that have transformed the distribution system and helped to speed up both the award of tender funds and the allocation of funds. This report also notes that, thanks to the use of EU funds, economic performance has increased significantly in Hungary, consumption has increased, investment and employment have increased, Hungary's internal and external stability has improved. As regards payments, the biggest item was agriculture, as 31 percent of development resources were realised in agriculture. This was HUF 3714 billion, but the report also notes, and this makes me wonder for the next period that, despite 31 percent of the subsidies being realised in this sector, its contribution to GDP, its share of job creation was far below this: in the former, it was about 23 per cent and in the latter, it was only about 20 per cent. This means, as the Minister pointed out, that these resources were used not primarily to improve productivity, to increase efficiency by purchasing new production tools, but to increase the results of businesses. I think that the new programmes will also bring about changes in this respect, and I am very confident that, as a result, the competitiveness of agriculture will also be significantly improved in the coming period. This report also concluded that medium-sized economies were the first to perform outstandingly. I trust that we will be able to count on the players in this sector in the next period. It can also be concluded from the report that the specific investment impact of enterprise development programmes was one of the highest in all areas. Overall, these grants increased by 3.7 percent, with the additional effects of more than HUF 200 billion increasing the level of investment that would otherwise be made with EU support or domestic support, thus increasing the effectiveness of businesses and strengthening participation in job creation. So I think that when the government devotes 60% of the resources of the next period to business recovery, it plans to use them, then it has made the right decision, supported by this study. Finally, let me say a few more words, while we are talking about the use of resources, the greatest corruption scandal of all time, the construction of Metro 4 because the government has also set a definite goal in the next development period, the Minister has also spoken about this, in the spirit of zero tolerance, in contrast to corruption, that all decisions will be transparent and public. It cannot once again happen in Hungary in the case of very large EU grants, such as the 4th metro investment: on the one hand, in such an unprepared way as the capital did at the time, that neither the impact studies nor the preparation of the investments had reached the minimum level, and on the other hand, Gábor Demszky bluffed 500 million passengers on the line of Metro 4 with the fact that they knew very well at the moment of the commitment that this was impossible. In English: the European Union has been tricked and these subsidies have been stolen. So in the next period, a completely different mentality is expected, and I am sure that by 2020, the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy will be significantly improved, and the standard of living of Hungarian people will continue to increase beyond the European Union's average thanks to EU and domestic subsidies. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-192	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Richard Hörcsik.
u2017-03-27-193	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Last November 28th was the last day of debate on EU funds in Parliament. On this occasion, I can only confirm what I said then, that Hungary is one of the biggest winners of the 2014-20 EU budget cycle, with more than EUR 34 billion in funding coming into Hungary from the EU budget on various items. The European Commission adopted the first Hungarian operational programmes in February 2015 and, lastly, the rural development programme and the fisheries operational programme were approved in December 2015. Thus, according to the Partnership Agreement, we provide funds for 11 target areas in the order of HUF 7741 billion, and this is complemented by rural development resources, which do not appear in tender form, as well as domestic co-financing. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, it is in scale 12 000 billion that we have in the 2014-20 cycle. We would certainly like to avoid the situation, as the Minister mentioned, which has come close to the end of the 2007-13 development period. I would like to remind my fellow Members that at that time the European Commission projected some HUF 500-600 billion in funding losses for Hungary. Fortunately, this was avoided thanks to the conscious work of the government. We do not want to be in this situation again, so the current development resources must be spread in proportion, timed for the publication and payment of funds at the beginning of the cycle. Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard in Minister Lazarus' exposé that the Government's intention is therefore clear and clear: the period 2014-20 needs to be better established and more focused on the institutional system. To this end, until 31 March 2017, all the resources available to us will be announced, and 85 percent of the available resources will be decided by the end of 2017. So this also means that the government expects a payment target of approximately HUF 2200-2700 billion in 2017. As an example, I would like to mention the operational programme for economic development and innovation, one of the most important objectives of which is to ensure that the employment rate reaches 75%. So far, GINOP has received 15 900 support requests, and by the end of the year it can be up to 20,000, and 4500 positive support decisions have been made so far. Ladies and gentlemen, It is worth discussing with some thought how Hungary stands in this competition, especially in the narrower Patria, in comparison with the Visegrad Four. I am pleased to report that Hungary is outstanding in relation to the V4s in terms of the announced funding framework, at 93% of the available framework in proportion to the data at the end of February. Only the Czech Republic was able to approach this performance with a 76 percent advertising percentage. Hungary's performance is outstanding on the basis of support, contract and payment data, and it is also the first among the Visegrád Four. [[15.20]] Hungary is also at the forefront of the subsidies requested - 97% - and 49 percent - of the contracts concluded, and 22 percent of the subsidies paid to the beneficiaries and suppliers. On the basis of the payment data, Poland is the second prize, by the way. Ladies and gentlemen, The extent to which Hungary can use its resources in the current seven-year budget cycle depends not only on the clear intentions of the Hungarian government and not on Brussels, but also on an unexpected circumstance, since Brexit can fundamentally influence it. We are well aware that, in two days' time, British Prime Minister Theresa May will officially launch negotiations to end the UK membership of the EU by activation of Article 50 of the EU Treaty. Today, we are not fully aware of the conditions that the UK notification requires from the EU 27, nor is it known whether the British Government recognises its existing and future financial obligations, how this affects the use of EU funds in Hungary. We are well aware that the United Kingdom is one of the largest net contributors and that the lack of payment would, according to some, result in a deficit of EUR 10 billion per year in the EU budget. It is a very important rule that the seven-year budgetary framework can only be changed by unanimous decision of the Member States. Therefore, there is a legal guarantee for Member States that national envelopes that were decided in 2013 should not theoretically change. However, in practice, the balance of the EU budget is dependent on the conditions of British withdrawal. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2014-20 development cycle actually runs until 2023 due to the accounts. In the press, it is called a Brexit account, which is paid to the British by the end of 2023 under pre-set conditions if the United Kingdom leaves the Union in the spring of 2019. Ladies and gentlemen, The near future will be determined by two sets of negotiations in this respect: UK exit negotiations and negotiations on the post-2020 financial framework. I believe that the Brexit and the Multiannual Financial Framework negotiations have a mutual impact just because the UK's departure is already felt in the medium term, with a hole of some EUR 10 billion per year in the EU budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-194	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2017-03-27-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, We had a wonderful production meeting today, and I also thought that there would be less percentage here today, less self-glorifying fanfare here - [[István Szilárd Németh: Which percentage?]] the percentage that the Minister said here - but then, of course, he agreed to this, because there is no other way to explain at least what can't really be explained. Minister, you say that Slovakia, Romania, the Czech Republic have been overtaken in terms of spending resources and drawing funds. Why is this the only measuring unit that we have made when we see that these three countries, which you believe should be blushing because they cannot draw EU funds, have a street-length competitiveness and economic growth ahead of us? You admit yourself, Minister, that the money that was drawn from the European Union was not in fact integrated in the Hungarian economy was a one-off capital injection, and in fact it has no over-excessive, over-reliant effect on the Hungarian economy in any way in the right direction. It has been spent on some purpose once, and we will come back to that, because it is very inefficient from the EMCDDA study, which you have mentioned many times before, which has already been heard through the press. What has been spent so far has actually been so inefficient that the Hungarian economy has received a one-off capital injection, it has not been integrated in the Hungarian economy, and the countries that you believe should now be blushing have passed us as a fast train. What we are talking about is that we now want economic growth in Hungary to be as high as in Romania. We just want to achieve the efficiency and we just want to achieve the productivity that that huge economy can achieve north of us, the Slovak and the Czech economy. I think, Minister, that you should not be proud of that. This is about the fact that, unplanned, very, very much money has flowed into Hungary, and without any impact, you have allowed it to be spent. They spent this money, of course they made it into the Hungarian competitive sphere, and more of it was given to friends. These funds have been spent and will have no impact on the Hungarian economy after 2020. He also gave examples that we are here today to pursue the target debate and, of course, to look at the purposes for which applications should be put out - he said with three sentences after he said that 99 percent of these applications are marked - and that municipalities, NGOs and companies can obtain these funds in a secure system. Minister, please read back last year's statements and statements by your Secretary of State last summer: hundreds of civilians have submitted applications, hundreds of municipalities have submitted applications, TÁMOP, TIOP applications and three-line communications [[Csaba Dömötör: Soros? Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The first three or four months were pushed to these... Yes, serial, three-line and four-line announcements. I'm glad I could make a little fun on that side. So we managed to cut the funds from 200-500 civil society organisations by moving the evaluation from 3 to 4 months in a communication, and then we couldn't get access to these tender funds. While we are listening to these and how the earlier goals were flawed - by the way, we managed to vote for these operational programmes with a large majority of the votes of the Fidesz people in the regional development councils, together with our fellow members of the Fidesz - everyone now has a better memory, and it is now clear that these proposals were not so effective in the past, in the period 2007-2013. Then why did you lead the planning committee, and why were you the ones who voted for it? Now, now, there are excellent goals. There will be a glass bridge, there will be as many castles in this country as the world has never seen. [[István Szilárd Németh: It's time!]] Who's gonna own this, who's gonna move in, and we're gonna keep an eye on him. A dream burst, there will be no Olympics, so there will be a space program and a space centre, and there is a social need for them, honourable Members. This is what we have been listening to, this is what our fellow Member Erik Bánki told us, that it must be spent efficiently, and that it must be spent, not further away from social and entrepreneurial needs, in order to balance territorial differences. Now, these will be the commitments - the space centre and the space research center, the viewers, the castles, the music road 67 - that would otherwise compensate for this social and entrepreneurial need. I didn't go down Route 67 that long ago. He's giving me some weird music right now. Otherwise, we would be happy if it had asphalt on it, if it didn't play music, and I think the road 67 would be much better, which is a pretty serious main road, a serious tourist attraction, you know, in the direction of Lake Balaton, with regard to South Hungary. So, we think what you've just performed here is exactly why you've made a production meeting so you don't have to go into these debates. I am sure that all my fellow Members with Fidesz have the material written in the department of the Ministry, everyone will tell you the percentages in their territory, and will tell you how many hundred businesses have benefited from it. [[15.30]] I am sure that this debate will be cut apart nicely, so that there will be no ordinary, meaningful debate about how to eliminate Hungary's failure to have a poor house in Hungary; how to raise these regions; how to give these areas so much money and a thought that they can stand on their feet, and not treat either South-West Hungary or North-East Hungary as a dead end. You don't want to answer these questions because you don't know the answer to them. The only thing you care about is how much money you can drain from the European Union and how much you can give to your friends. I think there was a system of institutions that you guys had broken up before. That institutional system has obviously received a lot of legitimate criticisms; it has also suffered many unlawful criticisms, but I am sure it has also received a lot of legitimate criticisms. After that, the drawdown of EU funds stopped for about a year and a half, just because you destroyed this system. They didn't set new goals, they didn't set any targets; just because you beat him up, you had to find the reliable cadres, and then you had to find out where to turn the money to get the good of the people you're thinking about. Five percent - now the minister has gone - would he have gotten these friends? Well, don't be ridiculous. By the way, why don't you give me an absolute number, please? Tell me how many billion forints that is. What you remember is that it's there for the four people mentioned; we're talking about 10,000 billion forints, and here we're joking about the fact that five percent of this is there for four people? Then give me an absolute number, figure out what you think might have gotten into these people. To sum up, Mr. Secretary of State, because the Minister is tired of the debate, I can tell you that more planning, more efficiency, more synergy where improvements can be connected, and Hungary will not only receive a simple and one-off capital injection, because after 2020, it will pass, and then you will be in trouble. But in order for you to be in trouble, you should be worried, but all of Hungary will be in trouble. I believe that we are right to fear this, because without a vision, without sustainability and without generating interactions, without multiplying money, a sustainable, beautiful and developing Hungary cannot be imagined. I would recommend once again to your attention: those who you look down on because you have not called down enough EU funds, those countries, the V4 that are constantly mentioned here, have passed us like a fast train. I don't think it's something you should be proud of, so you should be ashamed, so you have to be ashamed. I believe that we have said these thoughts, and I hope that you will take them into account later, not just for your own interests. Thank you so much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP. A statement from the governing parties' benches: there are two of them! Dr. László Kács: A hundred percent of the faction behind me applauds.]]
u2017-03-27-196	I now give the floor to István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-27-197	Thank you. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! We can see that both the Fidesz-KDNP and the government consider the use of EU funds as strategic issues. I think this is very necessary, because we can see that nothing is certain today in the world around us but uncertainty. We're living in an age of instability. Society, economy and politics are changing with surprising speed. This is what the events of recent years show, we can think of the Brexit mentioned by my fellow Member Hörcsik or the victory of Donald Trump, but there may also be further profound changes in Europe. It is therefore very important to have strategic importance that each country and group of countries should be able to determine their own place, position in this changing world and their own interests. This thought has been clearly done by the Asians, and this work is being done in the Anglo - Saxon world. However, we are ahead of this work, and we continental Europeans must also necessarily define our place in this new world order. I said all of this because it is very closely related to the current Hungarian economic policy directions and, as one of its elements, to the use of EU funds. We need to use EU funds, if we do the right thing, not simply to work out our existing disadvantages, say, against Western European countries, but to use them to build the ability to respond to the challenges of the future in Hungary, in the Hungarian economy; therefore, in summary, we can also increase our potential for the future. It is a pleasure to see that, in the 2014-2020 programming, unlike in the previous cycle, EU funds are seen by the government as a means to increase the competitiveness of our country using resources; to broaden the opportunities for economic growth; to further strengthen Hungary and to reduce the territorial disparities in Hungary. Overall, it can therefore be said that, contrary to the plans for 2007-2013, EU funds do not exist as a small world as a separate policy but are also integrally linked to the government's social policy and economic policy visions. It is important to note that in 2015, we successfully and effectively completed the previous development cycle without losing resources. In 2010, when Fidesz-KDNP took over government and there was still a serious and high chance that EU funds would be stuck, we can see that the work was so good that, let alone no loss of resources, the government was able to support the applicants to almost 10 percent more than HUF 9200 billion. In total, nearly 71,000 projects were funded and sourced. It can therefore be said that the 2007-2013 cycle, otherwise badly planned, could also be adjusted after 2010. I'll give you some examples of that later. On the other hand, we can see that the 2014-2020 development period represents a qualitatively new era and a new level. This is not just about how to save and how to spend resources, but we can finally focus on what we use and how we can increase the future capacity of the Hungarian economy. So in the long run, we can focus not on spending money, but on using it properly. It wasn't always like that. Let us remember - no wonder my fellow cook was deeply silent about this - that the development that took place in 2007-2013 using one of the most important EU funds was the metro 4 case, which was recently prepared by Brussels. [[Interview from the benches of the MSZP: Simicska!]] the balance sheets of socialist-liberal governments and the Budapest city administration. According to this, it can now be said that this was the greatest development of Hungary's 13-year European Union history. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] , probably the most surplus, but more importantly, this was also Hungary's biggest corruption case. For the 4th metro investment, the biggest theft took place in Hungary after the change of regime. [[Attila Mesterházy: Has the court said it yet?]] A four-year investigation was concluded at the end of 2016, which resulted in the conclusion of the contested contracts, with the exception of one, during the Regency of the Medgyessy, Gyurcsány, Bajnai and Gábor Demszky city administration. This is why metro 4 is the symbolic issue of the 2007-2013 cycle. [[Dr. László Kács intervenes: Space Research...]] We spent a lot of money on an unnecessary investment, three times as much as was promised at the beginning, and most of this money... - the total value of the 4th metro investment eventually increased to HUF 452 billion. Of this, OLAF claims that HUF 272 billion was involved in fraud or misuse, and HUF 166 billion was stolen. [[15.40]] If we look at OLAF's report, then I think that we are receiving very good examples of the poor implementation or misuse of EU uses. What are OLAF's findings? He said that the most frequently found irregularity was that the agreements simply did not comply with the laws and the laws on Hungarian public procurement in general, and OLAF also found that there were serious conflicts of interest in obtaining metro 4. There are many examples where - for example - Eurometro Kft. I would like to say this - during the entire project, the company participated in the preparation and conduct of the public procurement procedure as a consultant for the project management, and then carried out the main engineering control tasks on behalf of the project management. It's a clear conflict of interest. It seems that this was not the case for the socialists, so when they talk about friends and corruption, I am not surprised that Congressman László Szakács is leaving the room right now. [[Attila Mesterházy: Because you say such things!]] In addition, Eurometro Kft. in 2005-2006. has performed planning and advisory tasks as subcontractors of three contractors in the implementation of the same project. However, there are also examples of forms of abuse, such as OLAF's finding that they received money for internal information on behalf of the state and those acting on behalf of the capital. This is how EU funds can be used poorly, or, for example, there have been public payments that have not been met at all, there has been no real performance. In addition, it was sometimes the same as the consultant of the undertaking certified by the State. It's a clear conflict of interest. Looks like the socialists didn't mind at the time. This is a typical example of a poor use of EU funds. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say one more thing about this. I am a Dunakanyari representative, and we in Pest County know that the 4th metro investment actually led to the fact that Pest County, the whole of Pest County, has become the biggest loser of the development policy of the last 20 years. This happened because Gábor Demszky needed EU funds to build metro 4. This is why the Central-Hungarian region was created so that together with Pest County they could subscrew Budapest below the average level of development of the European Union, but what little resources arrived in the Central-Hungarian region was sucked by metro 4. So the agglomeration part, the county of Pest, which needed the resources most, and probably could have contributed most to Hungary's economic growth, this county of Pest did not obtain any funds thanks to its 4th metro investment. So it can be said that the 4th metro investment is a symbolic issue, a symbolic issue of the poor use of EU funds and corruption. In recent months - I would like to talk about this briefly - there has been a debate within the European Union that there are countries who are very strongly standing up for their national interests, including Hungary or Poland, and there is often a talk from more and more EU leaders that these countries should be punished in such a way that cohesion funds are withdrawn from them. It is therefore very interesting to see who actually benefits from these cohesion funds. In 2016, a Polish study was carried out, and it came to very interesting conclusions, as it concluded that 80 percent of the aid to the V4 countries eventually lands in some form with large companies in Western Europe. In fact, it can be said that the winners and the biggest winners of the cohesion funds allocated to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe are, by the way, Western European companies. At the same time, it is comforting that Commissioner Oettinger recently spoke about this problem, and he confirmed it, and I would quote it literally here:. Most of the money that the EU gives to Poland or Hungary, for example, will flow back to Germany. So the Hungarians and Poles spend the money by ordering the German industry, buying German machines and trucks. Thus, the net contributor Member States, such as Germany, are interested in structural and cohesion aid. From its economic perspective, Germany is not a net contributor, but a net beneficiary country, but it is important to state that when we have to have such debates with the European Union's authorities. Finally, let us compare the period 2014-20 for a few minutes with the 2007-13 development cycle, as it is very meaningful what we see here. We can see that in the same time, we are well above the results of the 2007-13 cycle in terms of both payments and announcements. We can see that, in the same time, the government announced a greater proportion of the EU framework, as Prime Minister said, 97 percent was announced by the government, while at the same time it was only 74 percent. The rate of aid granted is close to one and a half times the figure recorded in 2009, 53 percent now, 34 percent then, and more than four times the amount of aid paid in 2009. So we are now at 21 percent, in 2009, the then socialist government and the institutional system it operated were able to pay only 5 percent of the subsidies. In addition, the average value of weekly payments is fourfold different. My fellow Members have already mentioned the international comparison here, and I would like to say it briefly, because it is important that Hungary is far better in terms of the V4 than all the other states, since we have 93 percent of the announced funds, 67 in Slovakia, 76 in the Czech Republic, only 64 in Poland. Or more importantly, Hungary has completed several times more than all other countries in terms of paid subsidies: for example, the Czech Republic is only 4 percent, Poland is 6 percent, but Slovakia is only 4 percent. We can therefore see that there is a substantial and clear difference in the use of EU funds compared to the use of development resources in 2007-13. These figures show that the government has attached the available resources of the 2014-20 development cycle to the achievement of the social and economic policy goals, i.e. the use of EU funds today makes a substantial contribution to sustainable economic growth in Hungary, and Hungarian companies can prepare themselves for the challenges they face in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-198	Ladies and gentlemen, The Jobbik Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana.
u2017-03-27-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, as lead speaker for Jobbik, I should like to start by saying that, in the context of the use of EU funds for the period 2014-2020, the biggest positive thing is that we can debate this issue here today. This is why we should thank the government, but if we look back on the past years, it is primarily Lőrinc Mészáros, István Garancsi, István Tiborcz and their associates who owe you thanks. At a time when we are analysing the second seven-year budgetary period 2014-20, it is also worth looking back at the period 2007-2013, and it can be said that, in the time of socialist-free democrat governments, there were the majority of pointless projects against actual development needs. Then came 2010, a lot of people looked forward to the change of government, but they had to be disappointed, because the accountability promised by Fidesz had not been revealed, the scandalous cases had not been revealed, and no substantive steps had been taken with regard to the revision of subsidies, so the accountability remained an empty promise from Fidesz. On the other hand, there have been unthinkable institutional changes, and we can say that the fundamental regulation has had to and must be faced with continuous changes by economic operators, and, apart from the priority projects that I will discuss in more detail, decisions are very slow. [[15.50]] Overall, if we look at what has happened since 2014 in this planning period, we can say that Fidesz continued where their socialist-free democrat predecessors stopped, that is, the system of using EU funds remains a hotbed for corruption. So much has changed, they're getting a different circle of support. But if we look at the period since our accession to the EU, we can say, unfortunately, that the most important thing for governments so far were to use development money in order for companies related to them to win a significant share of the money. This has transcended all other aspects, and you, my dear fellow Members, have perfected the system of corruption. The focus of prestige investments and projects that are useless for the economy remains - here it is enough for me to refer to the case of the small railway station in Felcsút in the previous period - but if you look at the area of health for example, you can see that there are large amounts of money going to fake studies and trainings, while no meaningful improvements are taking place when, unfortunately, in 2017 in Hungary we have to talk about the fact that people are getting serious infections in these institutions every day. Therefore, substantial action should be taken against this. I, for example, have had a lot of interest in the case of small hospitals, including the restoration of obstetric gynecology at the hospital in Körmend, and we have had various local actions in this regard. Returning to the broader analysis of the period 2014-20: a serious promise was made from the Fidesz side, which meant that 60 percent of the subsidies would be directly linked to economic development. You can see that this is not going to happen. But more importantly, if you look at who these funds are, you can get a tight circle of them, the oligarchs that are channeled into Fidesz, the cashiers who rub their hands, and they are the ones who can be content with the past period. Differences have increased and the gap has deepened in this budget period, even though the European Union is expressing its cohesion objective. A month ago, German Commissioner Günther Oettinger and German Foreign Minister Sigmar Gabriel spoke about the fact that Germany actually benefits by depositing into the EU register, because the improvements that will take place in our region, for example, will be made with the help of German materials and German machines, so that Germany will be able to get back the money it is giving as a support. This is clearly against the strengthening of Hungarian companies. There is still an extremely high rate of corruption in applications, buddies are able to benefit from the grants, Butcher and his associates are the ones who can hurl. It was not a coincidence that the last time János Lázár's ministerial hearing took place at the meeting of our committee on European Union affairs, I asked why Lőrinc Mészáros was not here, and I am asking this question today, because he would be the one who could provide substantial information on the use of the aid firsthand. These development funds are not for the growth of the Hungarian economy, but for the oligarchs, so there is no lasting growth, although economic operators need predictability and planning, and the focus should be on job-creating, economic recovery investments. There was talk of small and medium-sized enterprises. They also made serious promises about putting them in position, but what we can actually see is that they make it impossible for them to operate and that SMEs outside the circle can only get support by mistake. It would also be important to strengthen the field of research and development, even because statistical data support the ability of innovative companies to increase their workforce to a greater extent, and this is particularly typical for small and medium-sized companies. Dear Parliament, It is a fundamental structural problem that there is no competition in the allocation of funds, large projects by public actors are overpowered. The public sector has the most support, the state spends on itself, while the little ones cannot benefit from these funds. I would also like to bring here the question of building energy renovations, where we can see that the population will not be able to benefit from these subsidies, while these funds will reach institutions. And if we look at which settlements can benefit from the funds, we can see here, too, that villages and cities run by non-fidesz, independent or other colorful mayors receive less than half of the money than the settlements where the mayor is pro-government. HEBC, members of the Hungarian European Business Council, meet several times in committee, we also have many debates with them, but I can agree that a country strategy should be drawn up in any event, which would outline medium- and long-term goals and provide the development directions that would govern over cycles, as it would be necessary to focus on investments that support businesses and jobs where added value is high. That's how we can create a stronger economy. But the areas of education, health and social systems should also receive more support. Without these, there can be no meaningful progress. And while regional comparisons have already been made here, it can be seen that in these areas we are in the back of the queue, we are sitting on a bench of shame even in the regional comparison, at Central European level. It is an outrageously high, almost 50 percent of the priority projects - as I referred to it - I would like to talk about this in a little bit more detail - when it happens that the beneficiary has access to the money practically without competition, this is played out in advance. Needless to say, this procedure increases the risk of overpriced and thus corruption, so Hungary takes a prominent position on the blacklists of OLAF, the European Anti-Fraud Office. Then, recently, a regulation was amended on the increase in costs, which could lead the government to deviate from its own rules of procedure by making an individual decision. The increase in costs will be eligible for over 30% and a judicial expert will only have to be appointed in case of an increase of more than 15 per cent. This measure also has a clear impact on the strengthening of corruption. Overall, my fellow Members, it is clear that the systems are managed manually in the service of individual interests. The priority projects are moving fast, as the beneficiary is a tight circle in these cases, but small and medium-sized enterprises on the other hand are drowning in red tape, and public procurement can be seen as the most important means of moving EU money into private pockets. What can the Betterman promise you? Following our accession to the 2018 government, we will create a situation in Hungary so that businesses can compete fairly and receive the subsidies according to their merits. We will create transparent, predictable and clean relationships to create lasting, long-term and sustainable growth, the results and fruits of which will be felt by Hungarians on their own skin. The ultimate goal is, of course, to keep our country on its feet without EU funds, because this kind of dependence on the economy should be substantially reduced. In addition, we are now taking the initiative for the European Union of Wages - a European citizens' initiative in this case - which aims at a substantial gradual wage catch-up. We have found the partners in Central Europe and the Baltic countries with whom we can act together to achieve this goal, so that jobs with decent living can be created in Hungary after Jobbik's 2018 election victory. The most important thing in terms of resource allocation will be to make a meaningful change to the current situation when money is distributed on an interest basis. On the other hand, we will introduce a share of merit and value-based money. This is what we are preparing for next year's elections. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-27-200	I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Balczó, Member of the European Parliament. You have the floor.
u2017-03-27-201	Mr President, thank you for the floor. More than 90 percent of developments in Hungary are made from EU funds, so this increased attention is understandable, which follows the use of money. However, this need is also a certificate of poverty, because it means that the Hungarian national economy has not reached the point of creating independent resources for development, so we must adapt to the EU's so-called priorities in the course of development, and in the context of the European Semester they also determine what the main directions and figures of our budget should be. The 60th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome was celebrated in Rome, if anything to celebrate, and they looked back for the past 60 years, so it inspires me to give a brief overview of the period of EU funds from the beginning. First of all, how should we look at EU funds? Do we have to be grateful for it? No. He is right, Minister John Lázár, who said that this source belongs to us. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] This cannot be made dependent on how a consistent policy towards migrants is judged by the liberal EU side, so it must be rejected. In addition, we have made the sacrifice of becoming members of the Union. The question is whether this was a necessary sacrifice for a sacred purpose, or whether we partly sacrificed our national interests before accession. [[16.00]] Unfortunately, the latter is the correct answer. In the 1990s, privatisation and liberalisation were all for EU accession, which meant abandoning our industry and transferring our markets. This process was completed at the time of the MSZP-SZDSZ government between 94-98. But let us add that the competent committee of Parliament, headed by Viktor Orbán, has contributed to this. Why not? After all, he was the vice president of the Liberal Internationale, and these economic ideals were totally right for him. The substantive negotiations were conducted by the Orbán government, and finally, in December 2002 the Medgyessy government signed the contract in accordance with the negotiating chapters reached, which does not exempt us from adopting a contract that encoded that we could not become competitive. The most important example is the acceptance of 25 percent of agricultural subsidies. Technically, the EU's 15 then did so by extending its influence to the territory of this former socialist region and by devaluing human and natural resources. We have been called to build the European house together, but we must see that what is meant for us is not an invitation to the salon, but to stay in the servants' room. This shows how the gap has grown in recent years between the so-called central countries and the periphery. The hoped-for cohesion has failed, and the most painful, of course, is the pay gap. As Tibor Bana mentioned, with a citizens' initiative, we want to get at least as far as confronting the European Commission, that what we hoped for, what the Hungarian people trusted, they did not trust that everyone would have a pastry shop in Vienna, but something catching up is coming - this cohesion has practically not happened. In the period 2014-20, economic development must indeed be the priority. But what kind of economic development? It is not the investors that are needed, and many of the investments have received serious EU support for what economy they are implementing: the Viktor Orbán economy. I quote what Viktor Orbán said as a seduction: in Hungary, the labour force is surprisingly cheap compared to its quality, and the labour code is extremely flexible. What's this about in Hungarian? Come here, you work well, you don't have to pay them, and you can use them infinitely. This is not the economic policy in Orbán that needs to be achieved from European Union funds! We hope that perhaps, what János Lázár said, they will try to achieve that domestic, value-generating and wage-paying businesses will be supported with EU money, because that is what this country needs. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-27-202	Thank you very much, Mr Zoltán Balczó, MEP. I salute my fellow Members. I would like to point out, as requested by the Group of the LMP, that two speakers present the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Ákos Hadházy.
u2017-03-27-203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today's debate is very bizarre, because we are actually discussing the results of a study prepared by KPMG. I looked at the public procurement page to see how much money he had done this, and he prepared this study for 350 million forints. If we also look at the fact that a year earlier it was charged for $24.9 million, in a very interesting way, just below the threshold of open procurement, then I'm telling you that it can really be interesting. This 350 million was won in the same way that most public procurements were won, and one single applicant was given the opportunity in an accelerated procedure. However, what we are talking about is very amazing. So, as a big success here, pro-government politicians say that all the projects have already been wiped out, we have already, at the beginning of this cycle, determined what we are going to spend this money for. It's like bragging about how we can throw this money away and burn it. Let me give you a metaphor, it's like throwing a tree in a fireplace at the same time. It might be very, very hot for a few moments, and then it'll all go off in a few minutes, and then there'll be the cold, and then we'll be cold. Warm can be harmful if it's too hot. I mean, if we give a lot of this money to companies just to burn the money that they know will not use, I've set out a lot of such examples, one of my favorites is the Bicske formula factory, where they dug about 50 holes out of 500 million forints, so if we give these money to these companies, then these companies will end up taking advantage of us, and we'll have more and more grifters instead of more viable companies. There's good news in this big rush. It's that you don't trust that you'll be in government in 2018, or at least question this thing, so you're trying to spend it, tie it down as much as you can. Let me give you another metaphor to compare the spending of these funds. If a person travels through Bánffyhunyadon to Transylvania, he sees the semi-finished, multi-storey copper-top palaces built by Roma entrepreneurs when they have some money, probably not in a very fair way. These were built, and when the money ran out, they stayed there as monuments. [[Erik Bánki: What's that got to do with it?]] It comes here, my honourable fellow Member, that the country is full of such monuments. There is a lot to list, including the 50 pits we spent 500 million forints on in Bicske. I said one thing. There's also a bridge that hasn't been built, a bridge to the world of work. Your fellow Member would have built it, but instead they couldn't wait for that 1.6 billion forint. And we could continue. It's a great sin. It's a historical sin. Unfortunately, we are now talking about the new cycle, and we see that in the new cycle the same cycle continues as in the 2007-13 cycle. Even though they say otherwise, we can see that Roma programmes work the same way, there are mentors of the same kind. The grandfather of the national Roma leaders, his father and his cousin are mentors, we saw the schools being distributed to people who have never dealt with such things in their lives. They received 30 million forints, the national flexibility plan continues to rumble, and the family-friendly country also received 6 billion forints from a Hungarian sailing port. [[Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] However, perhaps the most important question we have to say here about today's data is how they dare to do it. I think a lot about how they dare to do these spendings, these open thefts. They dare to do it because they know very well that Brussels, damn Brussels, does not control these funds. That's not true. They say they're claiming there's a OLAF. OLAF has a total of 150 people working in Hungary, say, 6 people. That's why they dare to do this, so they can get into these things with a smile. They say it was terribly cynical to hear today that only 5 percent of these money was taken by the people close to the government, the Prime Minister's son-in-law, the Prime Minister's good friend, the gas mechanic in Upstairs. Of the 10,000 billion, 5 percent is 500 billion forints. 500 billion forints! In fact, there is another number that was thrown here, that until 2014, the European Union was supposed to challenge only 8 percent of the accounts, and then it was only between 3 and 5 percent. Of course, considering that between 2014 and 15 we spent ten times as much money, 3-5 percent of it is much more than 4 percent of the previous money. How, then, do they dare to do so? There is no body in Brussels that really checks these funds. These funds were checked by private companies, these funds were checked for billions of forints, private companies that checked the project on Monday, submitted the project on Tuesday, and then, say, at the Széchenyi Program Office, they did some kind of education on 22 December 2015. That's what checks were like. [[16.10]] Why they dare to do it, we also received an answer today from you when you mentioned the subway business. The subway case, the problems, the frauds that may have occurred in the subway case, occurred in 2006 and 2007. We've almost reached the statute of limitations, which is why you dare to do it. You know very well how long it takes to make a case. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] Amazing, really amazing. [[István Ikotity takes over his notary seat.]] So once again, in these cases, you're committing a historical crime. It's no use explaining it. Hungary is losing a historical opportunity. I'm sure there will be consequences on your part. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-27-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2017-03-27-205	Mr President, Dear House of Representatives, It is a fact that, in this EU budget cycle, Hungary is most of the EU's sources of aid development. As is known, EU aid is one of the most important factors for economic growth, which is why it is a great opportunity for the country, but it is also a great responsibility to spend it. Especially in the light of what Minister Lazarus said in his exposé, namely that this is primarily the money of Hungarian taxpayers and not the money of EU citizens. I myself believe that this is the money of Hungarian taxpayers, not of EU citizens. This money's gonna make a mess, and he's gonna go to Brussels, and he's gonna come back labeled. So the question is, can we take advantage of this opportunity to raise the country's economy, create a normal life in the countryside and set us on a sustainable path. So once again, I stress that there is even more responsibility than if it were a tax on EU citizens. We, on the other hand, find that the answer is not very encouraging. The data show that the targets set at the beginning of the cycle, namely the catching up of areas under development, structural transformation, 11 thematic objectives, will not be achieved or will only be achieved in a fraction. Previously critical processes continue, which, unfortunately, is what we need to see. The only opportunity they had was to move community money into private pockets. Instead of the common good, private interests are being satisfied, resources are being squandered. A great many projects could be lined up to prove this. Everyone has their favorite examples, I have some, but I usually share two. When I walk in the countryside, I see that in a multitude of kilometers, many millions of EU funds have been given to build pens, and these pens have passed out in a few years, rotted, destroyed, and vanished. This means that millions of forints disappear like this. Or the other: I really don't like this pension support to support ecotourism. 20-30 million forints were added for the establishment of a pension. What's happening? For five years, the pension must be maintained in some way, and in five years it will be private property, i.e. 20-30 million forints will be transferred to private property, and this has happened in very, very many cases. The LMP considers it a major problem - and we have already said this several times, my colleague Hadházy pointed out - that you all want to spend all the resources available by 2019, even though the rapid spending of EU funds is not good for the economy and for the country. Instead, the call for funds should be balanced, going to 2022, so that the economy can build and adapt, I stress and adapt. Tuggling the economy can destroy entire industries rather than making businesses and sectors competitive. Unfortunately, the government considers the amount of money spent to be the only criterion for success. This was also heard from Minister Lazarus's speech. However, we think that instead we should look at how useful spending money is and how good it is for the Hungarian people and the Hungarian economy. What we do see, however, is that you are hoping for political benefits from the rapid spending of money, thinking that in 2018 you will be able to win a better choice in the midst of an artificial economy, and no matter how much damage you are causing the country. Let us look back to the previous cycle when they were already working on these principles. According to an internal data study in the period 2007-2013, one-off impacts accounted for half of the investments. EU funds passed through the country with only 1 percent increase in GDP in 2015 as a 5 percent share of GDP. It is due to this fact that, while there has been a surge in the country of resources above Marshall's aid, the larger half of Hungary continues to break down, four of the seven Hungarian regions are among the poorest in the EU. I am also referring to Minister Lazarus, and it is no coincidence that the government must once again say this year that the aim is to reduce territorial differences. And this is not only about reducing the difference between the developed countries of the European Union and Hungary, but also about the difference between the regions in Hungary. What we see is that the distance between the regions in Hungary is not decreasing, but rather increasing. So we need to do something different to change that. It can also be seen that the development of investment is an important indicator of the process. This shows more than anything the harmful twitching effect already mentioned, and something else: in 2016, the volume of investments fell by 20 percent. We have said it many times, and the government has acknowledged that this is because the Hungarian economy is critically dependent on EU funds. What was less than the threshold is how low the 2015 level was, and how huge the fall was compared to that. The government pretended there was a slight correction, and then next year we'll sort of turn it up. It's not that. Even in 2015, the investment rate was at the bottom of the scale of 20-21 percent, which would represent the image of a developing economy. This ratio fell by 5th in 2016. This means that it is lower than it was in 2013 and lower than it was in 2002 and the following years. The big spread of money in the data only occurred in 2014 and 2015, but then they returned to the usual low level. To sum up, unfortunately, we see that the country cannot take advantage of the historical potential of EU funds. The cementing and the filling of your own pockets go with steam. This will not improve the quality of life, nor the economy, nor will Hungary become more sustainable. Thank you for your attention.
u2017-03-27-206	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. It is now up to the Member of the European Parliament to speak directly, taking into account the order of the independent Members. I would like to inform you that the Jobbik Group has given Mrs Krisztina Morvai, Member of the European Parliament, eight minutes from the time frame set for her, so that she, together with a one-minute speaking time per independent Member, can speak within a total of nine minutes. I give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Morvai.
u2017-03-27-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, It is a great honor and pleasure to speak again at home, in the Hungarian Parliament, this time on the issue of the use of European Union funds. I got nine minutes, as Mr. President said. I am used to a total of 1 minute in plenary in Brussels and Strasbourg. [[The mike's shutting down. Intruders from Fidesz: Well, it looks like it's happening now. Defiance.]]
u2017-03-27-208	Congresswoman, please put the clip on, because you won't be able to hear it. I'm gonna count on that in time. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2017-03-27-209	You're very kind, thank you very much. I was afraid not to be disturbed by abundance, so I wrote down my speech. The European Union's funds to Hungary would have been, and are, a mission to put the Hungarian people in a position to create conditions for a better standard of living and quality of life, to reduce the gap between Western Europe and our country, not only to a narrow, particularly lucky or particularly clever, clever layer, but also to others. [[16.20]] In other words, the mission of EU money would have been and would have been to help civilization in Hungary. It means that the rural people who want to farm produce healthy, high-quality Hungarian food and can sell it; micro-enterprises, family businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, start-ups, and start-ups, where entrepreneurs create decent jobs for themselves and others. Jobs where the basis for competitiveness is not the shamefully low wage, because it is not Europe, but that third world. At last, 27 years after the change of regime, we need a clear nation strategy, a country strategy, to clarify where Hungary is going. What and how people will make a living and substantial EU financial resources should be used to achieve these objectives. How to create secure jobs in the field of research and development, innovation by implementing Hungarian inventions, manufacturing, market access, agriculture, food processing, tourism, medicinal tourism; and how to create meaningful and normally paid jobs, including businesses, with EU funds. That's the basic question. This weekend, I had a conversation with a convenience store saleswoman, and her fate, I think, is typical. Unfortunately, it is also a good starting point for where the problem is, what should be changed, what is the fundamental difference between the lives of Hungarian people and the lives of people living in the western part of the European Union; what is the situation in which EU funds should be used to change it. Let's see what Eve said. I'm 50 years old, I'm a graduate and I have many professions. In Budapest, I work in a foreign-owned factory next to a tape, I bring 140,000 forints a month, but that's not enough, as I also have to pay off a foreign currency loan. Therefore - although I get terribly tired during the week - I work as a salesman in this small grocery store on public holidays, Saturday, Sunday. When I'm on vacation from the factory in the summer, I wait tables next to Lake Balaton. My health is starting to hurt this way of life, and yet I feel very lucky. I came up from Szabolcs, where there was no job, and there was no job. I worked day-to-day for farmers who, after breaking up the theater system and falling apart, acquired the land. We couldn't live on the apples and sour cherries, because the canned plants and processing plants had stopped, so it couldn't be sold at any price. The peasants were paid not to have cows, not to produce milk. Technically, the country's way of life is over. Nobody cared what people were gonna do for a living. My daughter also graduated from high school, studied trade, came to Pest, and sold at one of the foreign-owned chains, she also earns around 140 thousand forints, but she also works herself to death, especially now that there are not enough sellers, because a lot of people have gone abroad, so she has to keep working overtime. Since we both know how to trade, and we both like it, it occurred to us to open a small shop in a family business. We wouldn't feel so vulnerable, like slaves. But that would require some start-up capital, which, of course, doesn't. How would that be? European Union support? Well, that's what I hear most of all from the fact that back home, in the country, the owners of huge land get the big money, the area payments. I do not think that small people like us have such an opportunity to create a decent job for ourselves, so that someone can open up a small business, a bakery, a hairdresser, a masonry with the tools they need. [[For signal:]] Yes, my fellow Members say, and they are right that, yes, rural development funds should be used for this, for example, but people should be helped to know that, and to have a business plan, to have ideas so that these people can have access to the money. That's exactly why I'm saying this, so thank you for confirming. "There was no such opportunity at home," said this woman, continuing, "that we, who have no background, should receive support for farming. To produce good quality Hungarian food in Szabolcs, back home, on that wonderful land. I would've been in the mood for that, too. We, in Szabolcs, were used to the peasant work, and all the gifts would be there, but we can't live from agriculture, even though that would be natural. I'm really glad my son found his calculations. Yes, I miss him very much, because he went to Germany. He's a cheerleader. He was able to start an independent business in no time, he's been out for three years, and now he's gonna buy his own house. I don't understand how it's possible that what's so hard to do at home is so easy. What I mean by that is that out there, who is hardworking and doing well, can live in a decent way, and we work our asses off at home, and we don't get one-on-one. Dear fellow Members, This account could have been made out of the mouths of many people anywhere in the country. I ask that, when deciding on the use of the sea of EU resources now available, these life situations should be recalled, and that the compass should be given to these people the opportunity to live a decent life. Whether farming, helping sales, food processing, creating a small business, creating a high-quality job in a larger enterprise or in a research and development group. Let's have a vision, a strategy for how it's going to get better. Many can sigh now, thinking that the European Union will not let Hungary rise. This is a mistake. The Union is feeling the problem right now, right after the Brexit. The gap in living standards between the old Member States and the former socialist countries cannot be maintained. Something has to happen, and now they feel it. About the other obstacles to civilization in Hungary, another story, another conversation comes to mind. This conversation took place several times during my travels in different settlements, under different governments. So it's not a party issue, it's a system failure, a system disaster, a system crime. It's customary for people to pull away and whisper, "That's the cultural home of our settlement." It's just been refurbished out of 100 million, but everyone knows that they could have spent up to five percent on it, and, of course, they had kissing entrepreneurs do it across the country. But why don't they hit the table? Why do they tolerate this? I ask questions at a time like this. What do you mean? We're all dependent. We're depending on the mayor. If he doesn't give us community service, we're dead. Or if we lose our jobs at local school or somewhere else. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He's so tired, he's happy to be alive, let alone do something like that. [[The president's ringing again several times.]] My time is up, I'm sorry... So if there were to be a self-conscious, autonomous citizenship who would control the spending of these resources, then the corrupt system that has been there for 27 years would collapse. [[The president's ringing several times.]] And these people, unfortunately...
u2017-03-27-210	Thank you very much.
u2017-03-27-211	I'm sorry. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-27-212	Thank you, too. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2017-03-27-213	Mr President, Honourable Members, Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. Before we begin the substantive debate, I think, on the two days of debate so far, with the intention of creating the tradition of a third day of debate, allow me, on behalf of the government, to respond to the speeches of the lead speaker and to give some guidance, which I hope will shift the debate beyond political speeches into a real professional and value-creating debate. I am sorry that Congressman Haughty has to listen to what he has to say to Mr Cook, but as a prepared politician, he knows what it is like to represent a party alone. [[16.30]] I have listened with sincere appreciation to Mr Cook, just because in nearly ten minutes we are trying to divert attention from metro 4's corruption case, which, I think, should be a very topical topic of the MSZP fraction since the last debate day, is no small political communication achievement. In view of the popularity of the MSZP, it is possible that it will come to advisory glory, and I believe that it will be able to produce sound results within the walls of this House. However, I would also like to highlight some contradictions that have emerged from what the Member said, namely that Mr Lázár spoke in part about the KPMG study and spoke in part about the criticisms raised about the use of EU funds, but he forgot to add that Minister Lazarus's words in the 2014-2020 period - [[Dr. László Kács enters the Chamber.]] Mr President, I respectfully welcome - they were talking about a period of time, while his criticisms were basically criticisms of the period 2007-2013. In this case, you could ask questions much more effectively either to your former Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány or to his wife, who was the former Deputy Chairman of the National Development Agency at this time; either to their second Prime Minister or to the third in line, Gordon Bajnai, who served the Socialist Party during his administration. After all, the agreements that led to Hungary's 2007-2013 EU development period being about missed opportunities were essentially due to these politicians and these executives, who decided if they did not decide how to use the EU funds at Hungary's disposal in 2007. I would also like to make a clear picture of the investments that the Member has condemned, but which are important for Hungary in the countryside, which are linked, among other things, to the investment in the castle, were financed only in part, but not in this part of the European Union's funds. More and more domestic development resources are available, which makes it possible to develop not only from the EU but also from the funds provided by the Hungarian budget [[Dr. László Kács: Space Center!]] 99 percent of the emblematic developments you mentioned with support from the domestic budget [[Dr. László Kács: Space Program!]] This is not done at the expense of the European Union register. Mr President, Mr President, you mentioned corruption, and I do not want to go without saying anything, not even because it was on the agenda of Congressman Tibor Bana. Here, Mr Szakács mentioned the study by Klára Ungár on matters relating to the Mészáros-Tiborcz-Garancsi-Simicska companies. [[Dr. László Kács: No, Lazarus mentioned it!]] This study, carried out by the political and non-biased ex-member of the government, says that in 2014-15, 4 percent of the then public procurements were awarded - 4 percent! - these four people are linked to 66 companies on paper or on the assumption. So all the corruption cases that this study, as an opposition to the government, could dig up are about 66 companies winning 4 percent of the total public procurement. By the way, it is a very interesting trend that when the opposition talks about corruption, it never talks about facts, but about moods. It never puts a company and the performance behind it in the front or center of the debate, but people. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Maybe these people have companies.]] and does not take into account the fact that companies who are partly, but only partially, owned by these persons actually represent what market weight they represent, because if they did, they would see that any grouping of hundreds of companies that have won public procurement in Hungary brings the same numbers or, where appropriate, can produce better numbers. Therefore, if we finally ask the question here, Mr President, freely what the purpose of the use of European Union development resources is, then it can be very clearly summarised, I think, along two lines. One is the creation of jobs, thanks to which 600,000 people work in Hungary today more than they worked in 2010, and the other is economic growth, which clearly does not relate to EU payments at all as much as you assume. After all, if they were right on this point, in the first nine months of 2016, when the payment of EU funds was made at a much lower level than in previous years, there would have been no economic growth that followed the very ambitious numbers of previous years. Congressman Bana spoke of several other matters. Here, I would like to continue on the subject of corruption, just because of the previous ones, it mentions four companies, as opposed to the 44,000 companies who won in the period 2007-2013. I would like to achieve the situation where these 44,000 companies, who can be described as a potent enterprise in Hungary and who are able to absorb this type of development resources, are all of them, both in terms of their employees and in terms of their owners, Fidesz' supporters. That's why the government works. I hope that you will be right, Mr Orbán, and that there will not be any Hungarian entrepreneur who would not be interested in forming a government again in Hungary in 2018. Therefore, I ask you very much that when you mention the companies that won the tenders, you should not only talk about these four who, for some reason, have won your approval, but also about the 44,000 companies who, I think, should be proud of the proposals you have submitted and the improvements that you have made. Congressman, I have seen that you are very prepared for this debate, because you have written your speech in advance, so it is worth checking some of your statements sometimes that it really stops beyond the political voices. He criticized the government for using relatively few resources for research and development. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, compared to the period 2007-13, in which the government spent a total of HUF 280-300 billion on research and development, the same figure rose to HUF 700 billion in the new development cycle. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the thoughts of the Hungarian health care system in its entirety and, at the end, some of the revelations of rural health care do not allow the government to use such development resources to improve health care in the Central Hungarian region, namely in Pest County and Budapest, while the rural health care network has developed the largest since 2010 compared to the period 1990-2010. What does not mean is that there should be no misunderstanding that we are satisfied with the quality of health care, but it was this government who started to organise wages for health care workers. However, it was this government who invested in the development of rural hospitals in the order of hundreds of billions, and yet it was this government who could indeed say that we could actually achieve good quality and acceptable care at county centres, even at county hospitals, by European standards. It is also difficult for Congressman Bana to interpret the statement that the government's hand or government's intention to support it is basically leaning towards the Fidesz municipalities. I do not consider Ozd, Szeged or Salgótarján to be a Fidesz-led city, so I would also like to see that, for example, over HUF 300 billion of development funds have been realised in Szeged, and, in the case of Ozd, there has also been a great deal of development in recent years, and in the case of Salgótarján, Prime Minister [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: She got the least money!]] just last week, he signed an agreement whereby HUF 60 billion of development resources will arrive in a city that is very underdeveloped and perhaps the most needy settlement among county-righted cities. Mr Balczó mentioned the proportion of EU funds and domestic resources when he said that 90% of domestic developments are financed by European Union figures. Here, I would like to inform Mr President, on behalf of the Government, that this number has changed. In 2010, this ratio was around 75-80 percent, so every year the share of EU funds is falling over the entire development cycle. Last year, for example, thanks to Hungarian taxpayers, Hungarian development funds were available in the order of HUF 1000 billion, which was not provided by the EU budget, but by the domestic budget for domestic development. In view of this trend, this figure is, in essence, increasing from 2010 onwards, and the proportion of EU aid is falling, regardless of whether you are right in that statement that they are still dominant in terms of weight compared to domestic development resources. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, you spoke of cheap labour as a factor in the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy. Here, the truth is that Prime Minister, if I remember correctly, met with Saudi businessmen at the turn of 2011-2012 and gave the speech in which he had this. But if you are so following up on Prime Minister's speeches, you should also do so in your speech at the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry in October-November 2016, in which Prime Minister said that the period of economic growth in Hungary could be based on cheap Hungarian labour force, and that, as a positive factor, is suitable for bringing foreign working capital into the country. I believe that Congressman Hadházy could now be baptized as Benedict Elek, because they are foggy visions and less factual. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: It was Fidesz!]] It would be good for the Member to take a look around the developments he mentions, because if he did, he would see that he regularly places developments in the media that are in the process of development or implementation, or that contain abuses that have already been sanctioned by the government. So I wish Congressman good luck and more energy to prepare. [[16.40]] Congresswoman Schmuck took my advice on the preparation last time, but I see that we are still not on the same agenda - it is not a problem, because we have a completely different political perspective - how these resources should be used. If we were to follow the proposal of the LMP that Hungary should continue to use these funds into directly proportional packages by 2020, then at best we would do nothing but preserve the difference that exists today between Hungarian and German, Hungarian and French or Hungarian and British businesses. We therefore believe that it is in the interests of the Hungarian Government and Hungarian economic policy for two reasons to use these funds quickly and effectively. One of the reasons is brexit. Following the withdrawal of the British, the Hungarian government today neither in the European Commission nor in other EU decision-making bodies sees the guarantee that the European Community will be able to persuade the British or French - or to talk about any net contributor - to make up for the British's losses. Therefore, the European Commission will only be able to take this money from those countries that have not used their opportunities. You are right about the need for planning. But planning does not mean that we distribute these development resources as a form of social policy, in proportion to citizens or Hungarian companies, on an equal scale, essentially on a participatory basis. Development resources must be focused investments, along the lines of goals supported by the Hungarian economy. And the type of consultation, the type of cooperation between the Hungarian economic operators and the government - I am thinking here of discussions with the chambers of commerce, the various chambers of commerce, economic and entrepreneurial interests - was not before 2010. Prior to 2010, during the previous seven-year development period, the government decided, in essence, to distribute money on a social basis in a favourable macroeconomic climate, not to care about anything, to maximize political benefits, to allow all social groups to do something from these sources. If we do so, there will be no economic growth in Hungary after 2020, when cohesion funds are not expected to be available, there will be no such investment resources from the European Community. There will only be economic growth in Hungary if we support an entrepreneurial circle that takes into account two aspects: the one that can create jobs and the one that can guarantee economic growth. Businesses that can contribute to this objective can receive support, and businesses that cannot contribute cannot receive this type of government or EU support. I would also like to respond to Mrs Morvai, and if she helps me to see if the woman who has spoken to you about her complaints can get access to it, then all the proposals, which I think will partially answer these questions, will be shared with them, in case they can move forward in this respect as well. However, I would like to mention, in any case, that this government was the first to speak not only about the importance of the countryside in 2010, but also after 2010. I am thinking, for example, that, in terms of EU funds, the resources of the regional development operational programme are not spent in Budapest, but the government concluded an agreement with every county in 2013, in which the county, the county assembly, where political diversity also appears, and based on the county chambers of commerce, could present the development plan on how to fight unemployment in Szabolcs and how to fight unemployment in Vas county. The same question, and two completely different answers from each other. The government has provided more than HUF 500 billion of separate funds for these programmes since 2013 and has been providing them continuously. But if you were talking about agriculture, for example, that we have stopped the support of large-scale owners in terms of tender resources, we cannot do it in the case of land-based subsidies, because the logic of land-based aid is that the land that one has is given development aid in proportion to the size of the area. But we were able to do it at tendering sources, and we said that basically we want to give support to families and medium-sized enterprises that farm at 300 hectares or the smaller size of the area, which technologically improves these small family companies. Why? Because it is true that Hungary was the pantry of Europe, and it was until 1990. However, it should also be noted that until 1990, the technological supply of Hungarian agriculture was exemplary in the European context, in line with the standards at that time. This technology has basically disappeared since 1990 and 2010. In those 20 years, there was nothing more to do with this technology than amortization. And what has Hungary supported since 2007? Basically, the agricultural sectors where the least human labour needs are needed, and therefore we meet the emigration from the country either in the case of young people and in the case of the second generation of people living in agriculture, or in the case of the withdrawal of Budapest. That is why we said that a degressive support policy must be addressed, that the landowners should be confronted with large farmers, and that the smaller, the more optimal the farming of a family or a smaller community is, the more support should be given, so, in addition to land-based subsidies, all of the agricultural subsidies applied for are degressively implemented and, basically, by developing technology and employment-intensive sectors. Therefore, if we receive contactees, we will answer each question with a specific tender scheme to the lady who also requested you. Mr President, That's all I thought about in the intro. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-214	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács for two minutes, MSZP.
u2017-03-27-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for remembering my speech so long, and I would like to add a few things that you did not understand correctly, or did not know if you did. Before 2010, you believe that the county authorities and the regions did not have their own development resources - you do not know that. Former County Development Council, Regional Development Council, which was able to work out its own operational programmes and, by the way, had the resources to do so. By the way, many of your factions have even sat inside, we have worked together, and generally these development councils have made hundreds of percent supported decisions. This means that you have also voted in favour of these decisions. At the castles, I did not say that castles should not be beautiful in Hungary, and it is a shame to translate it that way. It's when they use EU money to renovate a castle, and then the mayor moves into it, so I think that's a problem. What you're doing has three types of investment - sorry, four. One of the things no one needs but you want to spend money somewhere; there is a window investment; there is prestige investment; there is a announced investment. And you've been all over the country for the Modern Cities program, promised us a tree, hundreds of billions. I'm just telling you, Pécs promised the M60 highway to the border, every time the Prime Minister came so far, he promised that a meter hadn't been built yet. They promised us a bath - that's exactly what we need in Baranya, this will be the eighth - and promised us another 200 hectares of industrial park in Pécs, where there are now 90 hectares of industrial parks empty; if we keep the Prime Minister's promise, it will be 290 hectares. This is not sustainable development, it is not economic development, it is simple short-term politics and promise. That's what I've been telling you. I am very sorry that the Prime Minister wasn't born in Manfa or Kisvászar, because then it could be as beautiful as Felsút. Thank you.
u2017-03-27-216	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2017-03-27-217	Mr President, Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak again, and I will not abuse the time of the Members, but, Mr President, if we are to start correcting each other, I would like to suggest that we look at the previous operation of the Regional Development Councils together. They did indeed meet, they did, but they did not have the power to decide that there was no county development labeled money in the 2007-13 cycle. There was no such money. It's the first time money like this is available, and they weren't there before. Although it is true that you have promised many times since 1990, as we know, the government program and the election program are different from you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-218	Thank you very much. In the meantime, we were checking up on ourselves. I cannot give the floor to Mrs Krisztina Morvai, Member of the European Parliament, as much as I would like to, because during the debate, an independent Member from a group of Members, who is the first to speak, or who concerns the interests, rights of nationalities... and so on; a MEP cannot participate in this debate. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Csizi, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2017-03-27-219	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would definitely like to respond to Congressman Cook. I am pleased that you have set the example in Pécs, because, in fact, the debate here is about how we spend Hungary's EU development resources. [[16.50]] But we want these development resources to be distributed, spent and developed locally, at local level, along local needs as much as possible, and developed by local industry and local populations. What you have said and what you have presented to us here as a critical observation is all a point that we discussed with locals before we did the local strategy of the city, the strategy that the government has adopted and which will allow us to draw more than HUF 34 billion in terms of development resources. You said why we're building a bath, why the eighth spa in Pécs is being built in the county. You have to add, Congressman, that's what the Pécs asked for. The Pécs asked us to invest in sports, the Pécs asked us to have water surfaces, the Pécs asked us to develop recreational surfaces which, by the way, have not been completed during or prior to your administration in the last three decades. For example, the Pécs also asked for investments to create jobs. You said why we're developing industrial parks. In 2009, when we took over the city's leadership from you, there was zero number of industrial parks that could be used. Since then, there have been 200 hectares of industrial parks in the city, and we really want to develop it. He said our industrial parks were empty. We have brought nine international investors into the city since 2009 with the help of the government. Under your urban governance, this number is also zero. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-220	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement by each of its representatives will now take place, as announced in writing by the factions. First, I give the floor to Szilárd Németh, Fidesz.
u2017-03-27-221	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I have sat with interest for almost three hours since the debate took place, and I see that in this debate the position is no different than the sitting point. If I may, I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament about specific matters, specific EU development aids, in order to have facts before us on the issues that have been discussed between us in the last few hours. If I would like to say concrete facts, the European Union's development in Csepel has been worth HUF 33 billion in recent years, of which the European Union has paid 22 billion, i.e. two thirds of the money, while the government, the City Council, the Municipality of Csepel or the participants have paid as a part of themselves. When you look at the capital XXI. It is a district of an old industrial past of 77,000 people, so we can say that it is very slender. But if we look at how this money was made and how much work had to be invested to spend it, or even to win it, and if we look at the period, say, between 2007 and 2013, when this money had to be made for the district, then we will get an even more interesting picture, and perhaps in the next part of the debate, comrades will no longer want to participate, because we can issue a certificate about this period. In the four years between 2007 and 2010, the 11 projects that have been implemented... - 11 projects, we are also monitoring the number here, because there were a total of 70 500 projects in the country, and only 11 of them had access to Csepel. But if you look at the period, in the four years between 2007 and 2010, i.e. in the four years of the EU budget, only one project has been physically launched and one project has been prepared, but I would like to brief you on these, and I have managed to bring only HUF 1 billion of this 33 billion into the district. So once again: 1 billion out of 33; 11 out of 11 projects, let's say two are the ones that started. With this, I think that we have issued a certificate from that period in its entirety. But if we say that, for example, what Member László Szakács missed here is that the working capital, let us call developments and actually the development of the economy - how much he received before 2010 is equal to zero forints. By the way, after 2010 entrepreneurs received HUF 6.3 billion. This included a larger support and 82 more small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. This is already the national average, above 16 per cent, as this is almost 30 per cent, 29 per cent in Csepel, but this was also achieved after 2010. If we now look at the statements about what was swinging around the European Union's development, we have heard this from the left, from the right, corruption has always come up, then we should also remain silent. Because, of course, we can say things - sorry, I refer back to Mr László Szakács once again - we can say that there was some advice, these regional councils, development councils, which decided to spend money. I remember the role of this Regional Development Council, when, as a member of the capital, the Mayor was already called István Tarlós, and I was appointed to attend these meetings. I attended some meetings, and there was nothing I could actually do there other than fine coffee and four or five scones to eat, drink, because there was no stinking iron, let's say, in the hands of the Central Hungarian region. So practically nothing was ever decided because there was nothing to decide, so the comrades cleaned the register. [[Dr. Zsolt Legány: That's not exactly true!]] They filled the 4th metro development with it, which OLAF now examined for 167 billion forints, and we also generated some 59 billion forints in this respect. It would be very good to receive a worthy reward from those who created this situation. But by the way, if you look at these corruption charges and say, not just the subway investment, but the smaller ones, then in Csepel the only project that was launched was the rehabilitation of the Ady residence, this could have been achieved with nearly one billion European Union funding, and the first investigation, when I became mayor, which we did together with the European Union agency, showed that this included 220 million forints, more than one fifth, and 22 percent of the support that boys wanted to squash. Therefore, it has been pointed out that we need to modify the project itself, which we have managed to modify so that we can keep this 220 million HUF, and this 220 million HUF could otherwise be made for other improvements in this housing site. So one fifth of them were put into the project material on a systemic basis, so that they would probably benefit from it. So much for corruption. But there is another: the spinal cord, the most expensive road in the world. On this ridge road, it cost 3 billion forints a kilometer. This is not a freeway, a smooth passage through Csepel, whose aim was to have been, even in the comrade's period, because it was already planned, so even the council president was there, as a reaper in the alfalfa, that they would have built this spinal road, and then, at every municipal election, they tried to shove it down people's throats. They had a hard time getting something by the end of 2010, and by the end of 2010, they reached the point that this trip, I say again, cost 3 billion per kilometer with very serious EU support. [[17.00]] But why did it cost 3 billion a kilometer? Because, I don't know, maybe 150 properties had to be acquired. So that was the whole point of the story. Two and a half kilometers is a mongrel road, by the way. They said it's gonna be phase one. The first stage has remained in this section, because there is no more EU money available for this, that is the case. So they spent all the money they were supposed to spend on the first beat. They made a bad trail, they had to move people out of there, they had to pay for pre-built properties, and they even programmed them at the second, third stage - the part on the Danube coast at the cemetery - that those properties would also have to be acquired and paid to the owners later on. If not on this trail, but on a reasonable trail, along the Great Danube coast, on the site of the factory, the so-called bypass road, the completion of this spinal path could have been built exactly three times this long, with all the very important bridge elements and everything that should have been put into it. And there's a list of other things that you've done, by the way. These were the two investments that they started, and all the others couldn't even be started, because practically nothing was prepared. Everything was motivated by corruption, or by electoral motivation, because the elections always had to lie and promise something. It was like this, by the way, to give one more example of the construction of the 59 kilometers long canal in Csepel. It was promised in 1970. There's no mistake. In 1970, at the Centenary of Channel Management, they promised to do it. From then on, he went through every council election, blah, blah, and finally we were able to build it by the end of 2013 with local government and state cooperation after 2010. But the basis for this is also a corruption-suspected story, and this is the construction of the Budapest Central Wastewater Treatment. That cost 130 billion. Again about the design: there was no way to plan for the sewage treatment plant to channel Csepel with this money. To do this, we had to do a 20 billion-dollar stunt, a 20 billion-dollar irregularity that the European Union noticed, and it said that this 20 billion-dollar irregularity could be compensated by doing an additional project. That's how we were able to do the plumbing in Csepel after 40 years. For the latest period 2014-2020, the municipality is much better prepared. He made the plan we call the Weiss Manfred Plan. This is indeed ten times the size set out above for development, and the central element of development is job creation and competitiveness, and, as Mrs President said, obviously the foundation for the welfare of the Csepelians. I expect this Weiss Manfréd plan, as it is in his name - because Weiss Manfréd's work was practically destroyed by the Communists after 1945, long-term attempts were made to desecrate what he created in Csepel, and then, in 89, it was completed - we would like this Weiss Manfréd work to receive virtually the European Union's support and, of course, the government's support as a phoenix rising from its ashes. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-27-222	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2017-03-27-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to draw attention to one more aspect, in addition, because more and more voices from EU leaders should be cut down and EU funds should be reduced, saying that Hungary is not sufficiently adapted to expectations, for example in the case of resettlement quotas. The President of the Commission also referred to this recently. I do not want to talk about immigration policy relations, which we have already done today, but I would like to make it clear that there is no basis for anyone to blackmail Hungary with EU funds and put pressure on Hungary. EU funds are not some kind of donation, but compensation because Hungary has opened up its markets at a time when Hungarian companies were still at a significant competitive disadvantage. There is one other important circumstance. The previous speakers have already referred to this in part. A few weeks ago, a German EU Commissioner spoke surprisingly of the fact that most of the money that the EU gives to Poland is flowing back to Germany. The Polish spend the money, he said, by ordering the German industry, buying German machines and trucks. Someone from the opposition parties asked why this is important, why this is wrong. Nothing in principle, as long as these leaders, these contributing countries, do not view EU funds as generous gifts of grace or Christmas gifts. I can tell they're not. Dear House, In Poland, an analysis was carried out in this regard, showing that between 2007 and 2015, EUR 120 billion of EU development funds in the Visegrad countries flowed back to the old Member States. So out of 120, 97 billion. That's about 80 percent. Among net contributors, the positive impact reached 330 percent of the expenditure in Austria and 150 percent in Germany. This means that these EU funds are beneficial to everyone, so we are even. All of this, I think, is also a task for the government. This government must also assess the extent to which EU funds help foreign and local companies, because it is no secret that we want all Hungarian companies to have the same chance of kicking the ball as their partners in Western Europe. One more thing. These rates make it even more clear that we cannot accept any pressure on EU funds. As negotiations on the next seven-year budgetary period can begin next year, I believe that this is a principle that can be accepted by all parties sitting here regardless of their political affiliation. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-27-224	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker is Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP.
u2017-03-27-225	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A lot has been said in the debate, so in my comment there will be a part that I have thought about in advance, and there will be one that may respond a little bit to what has been said in the various comments so far. I am very sorry that, after Minister Lazarus had long spent what he wanted to say and looked with incredible curiosity at the direction of the MSZP fraction, and promised to follow the debate through, he managed to leave immediately after his comment. In fact, I see now that Secretary of State Csepreghy could not stand the debate and left a secretary of state behind as a quarterback, which we are particularly pleased to see, as his professional knowledge is certainly capable of answering the questions that have been raised. Allow me to approach today's debate from a slightly different perspective, as has been said so far, as we have said several times, but it is perhaps worth noting once again that Hungary has received the most EU support in the region in terms of Hungarian GNI. Perhaps Erzsébet Schmuck spoke of these sources exceeding the size of the former Marshall aid. I think it is only important to emphasise this at the beginning that perhaps those who follow the debate should understand and know that we are talking here about a very serious opportunity, a huge system of instruments, when we are discussing this in Parliament. Mr Dömötör State Secretary has used it several times now, and the Fidesz speakers also want to push this on opposition representatives somehow. I have listened to this debate, but this word or signified structure, please, has not been said, so I would ask you to let me speak on behalf of the socialists so that, on our behalf, you do not say that we believe that European Union funds are a donation of grace, and we should always thank everyone for everything. [[17.10]] if no one has said that we look at European Union funds as we should constantly bow to our Western brothers for a little aid, and that is why we are kissing their feet. I personally am an economist, I have read a lot about these issues, and I also believe that in a thousand respects, these resources are due to Hungary, and there are indeed economic links that show that those who give them, who are net contributors to the EU budget, benefit from these resources. I would also like to point out that, on the other hand, Mr Secretary of State is right - and let me say such a sentence - that there is no way to accept any pressure on European Union resources. The European Union funds do not belong to the Fidesz government, but to Hungary, they must serve the Hungarian national development, so any initiative from Brussels that is about expressing any criticism by withholding funds, or covering any political debate with the Hungarian government, is unacceptable, as they would damage or shorten the Hungarian people, the Hungarian nation. And if the European Union has a political debate with Viktor Orbán or any member of the Hungarian government, then they must definitely fight it in that dimension, not in another subject, which can cause Hungarian people to suffer disadvantages. Which is why I say that I would like to approach today's debate in a different way, and that is that I am convinced - I have already had the opportunity to say it here in this House several times, but I repeat it once again - that I think that the effectiveness or success of the European Union's use of resources, its effectiveness, whatever the way it could be put, depends on the strong political consensus behind it. The countries that have been successful in using EU funds have been able to agree on the main national development goals beyond party policy debates, and I do not mean only the economy, of course. In my view, we are at a disadvantage, perhaps not at the same disadvantage as some of the European Union's former accession countries, such as Ireland, or we could mention anything else, but there is a disadvantage in this, as we are constantly making these EU funds the subject or subject of party political battles. And I would be happy if I could put it this way if there were development policy goals and a broken-down action plan in this area of Hungarian development policy, which would be a cycle-wide development policy plan, to which all parliamentary parties could say, please, that I take this out of the party policy debates, and whoever comes to government would follow the same or nearly the same goals, because there was a kind of agreement about it. There have been two specific examples, one of which is sitting in this room: Mr János Fónagy, Secretary of State, has held numerous professional discussions on energy issues when these agreements passed through the Parliament by 98 percent; but I could say the old-age strategy to say a completely different topic, if I remember correctly, it was also adopted by 98 percent in Parliament. So it is not true that the Hungarian Parliament is not able, if it has the political will to come to some sort of agreement, of course, by compromises, and of course, by recognising who has a majority, and who has a majority, of course, certainly has a greater say in these matters. Another thing is, there's been a lot of talk about centralization. I must admit, I am one of those Members who do not already consider centralisation to be a bad one when we talk about European Union development resources. I think that there is a place and a logic for the government to use these resources in centralised places, only a preventive station of this is equally important - and I started with this - so that there is a strategy ahead of it, preferably a strategy based on political consensus. I know that these funds can be used less for sports investments, but let me give you an example. We know how many gyms are missing in Hungary, don't we? Now we can play this out as a tender, but we know what the strategic schedule is, where the shoes are best pressed, so in Hungarian, you can predict the pace at which gymnasiums should be built in Hungary. I wanted to take this as an example that there is no problem with centralization if there is a strategy ahead of it, and part of the implementation of the strategy is that we centralise. If that is not the aim, but the goal of getting a circle of friends to a source, then, of course, this is more of a barrier to efficiency than help, and, as many have already said, this is called corruption, where appropriate. I also saw it on the basis of the applications, and it turns out from the analysis that I believe that there were 1100 items available for access to some kind of source. This means that this tender system is still very fragmented, Mr Secretary of State has spoken about focused proposals and improvements, and I see that they are still too fragmented or there are very many applications, so it might be worth a little more reduction. Then Minister talked about the fact that it is now really possible to check, because there is a debate day. Please, this is not the case. I would like to disprove the Minister, and I would recommend that Mrs Secretary of State take note of the proposal for a regulation No 55/2006. The content of this resolution is the provision of parliamentary control over the use of development policy resources. Fidesz MEPs tabled this motion, the then socialist government accepted it, and a case-by-case committee was set up to control these development resources by parliamentary means. The leader of this was Ildikó Pelczné Gáll, an opposition representative at the time, and on a fair and square basis, I believe that six opposition and six pro-government representatives were members of this committee. I would like to point out to the attention of the government several times that, if you truly believe that there is a reason to exercise such control over these resources, then we should set up this ad hoc committee and operate it as the Members of the Fidesz have previously requested and, as has been done, then you have terminated this committee in 2010. I wanted to argue with Mr. Secretary of State. Perhaps he put it a little simplisticly when he said that the aim of EU funds is to create jobs or to increase the economy, i.e. economic growth. It is wider than that, therefore, an economic growth is a goal in any way, but social and regional convergence is at least as much the objective of these EU funds. Therefore, in a very simple way, to say that what the Socialist Government has done was distributed on such a social basis, and not all of this has gone to the economy, I think that would be the other side of the horse, because there is a logic to not necessarily adding EU funds only to productive or economic investments, just as you do, because other social and regional catching-up goals must also be taken into account, as long-term development and sustainability can then be ensured. What I would miss from today's debate is that we talk very little about effectiveness. For me, what the Minister said is the necessary but not sufficient condition, so the fact that we can statistically or formally check that we call off the funds is good news, because if he stayed in, it would be even worse news, but somewhere such a debate day should also take stock of the results of Hungary's approach to achieving progress in these areas in the economy, in society, by spending all these resources. And here we could say positives, negatives, I'm opposition, let me say negatives: competitiveness has deteriorated a lot. Even though we spend so much money on the economy or on the SME sector, our competitiveness has not improved, these resources have not properly prepared the SME sector for a time when there will be no resources available in this amount, and these European Union funds have a kind of restrictive effect today, or the region has just gone by our side. So there's more to mention, which I'm pretty sure is a problem. [[17.20]] Let me say one more thing from the point of view of the social impact, which I would just like to point out: in the most disadvantaged areas, the catch-up was not very successful. Thus, while progress can be made in counties and regions, this tender system has certainly not produced the expected results for the most disadvantaged settlements. Speaking of direct, non-promotional, centralisation, focussed - whatever we call it, as the Secretary of State did - I would say that it would certainly make sense in the most disadvantaged areas. Just as it would make sense - and I agree with the Prime Minister - that today the cheap labour force is not enough in today's world, so Hungary cannot be a assembly plant and the Hungarian economy cannot be monocultural. So there would be something more to be done for the economic sector. If we continue the debate on a political scale, it is relatively easy to argue that the SME sector is versus multi-companies and foreign-owned companies. I think you need to be a little more careful about this, sometimes one makes sense, sometimes the other. Of course, it would be best if all the resources went to Hungarian companies, and in the meantime we could even achieve our triple target system or our multiple target system. I am sure, and I would just say taxatically, that the development of innovation capacity, human resources development, productivity development must be a priority in any way. It follows that education, health, public administration, human capital development, the development of transport infrastructure, the development of R &amp; D capabilities are all necessary and important, and if we are talking about focused investments, then probably these areas should be a priority. The Minister said a very cynical sentence about control, and we talked about various statistical numbers, 4 percent, 5 percent. It is worth noting that when we talk about EU control, it is often said that inspectors work in Brussels on paper. That means they can check what they've been given on paper. And the Hungarian administrative ability has greatly improved over the past period, and they have also learned to account for it, to apply for it, and in many places it is easier to account for it. So none of these figures show how much EU money is being used correctly and incorrectly. Unfortunately, the European Union has very limited instruments on this matter, so I think that we should not be so proud of what figures we see yet. They also said we weren't talking about specific companies. But we say a lot of specific companies when it comes to corruption, but more companies could be said if you weren't in government, because you could see where the problems are, so when you can see the system from the inside, otherwise it's probably in your interest not to let everything come to light. One more sentence for Mr. Secretary of State, even though he's gone, it doesn't make much sense for me to tell you, but I'll tell you for the record. He said, and it was a wonderful sentence that was in a favourable economic environment before 2010. Well, please, Fidesz hasn't said that before, so this is something to celebrate. So far, it has always been said that before 2010, it was a very unfavourable economic environment, specifically because there was a crisis everywhere in the world. And to accuse a government because, in the midst of a global economic crisis, it also takes into account social aspects when it provides funds to companies, I think that it is not a disadvantage, but rather an advantage, and therefore it should be praised by the previous government rather than criticized, because the EU development resources can certainly also lead to economic recovery. That's all I wanted to say during the debate. And once again, let me point out so much, and I would suggest to the government that it would be worth creating permanent parliamentary control in some form, and it would be worth inviting opposition experts in policy and political debates, because this might be the way to prevent these debates, and in the long term to ensure a successful, sustainable use of resources that would serve the success of all Hungarian citizens and the entire Hungarian nation. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President.
u2017-03-27-226	Thank you, Congressman Mesterházy. I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör.
u2017-03-27-227	Thank you. Not to waste your time, I'd like to clarify one thing. I did not say, in one word, that the MSZP would have said that EU funds should be reduced. I see a lot of things out of the left, but I don't see it coming, and it didn't sound like that. On the other hand, EU leaders have often said so. I would also like to say to you - just to be specific - that at the EU leaders' working dinner, the Italian Prime Minister, who has failed since then, told the V4 leaders to accept immigrants or the net contributors to withdraw all EU support from them. The source is otherwise well-informed Politico in February 2016. In September 2015, the German Minister for the Interior spoke about the correct suggestion by Jean-Claude Juncker that structural resources should be withdrawn from Member States that are opposed to quota. He also said that there was a need to talk about the means of exerting pressure. That's what the ZDF told German television. So this threat was raised by the President of the Commission, the Italian Prime Minister and the German Minister of the Interior. This is a risk that we will have for a reason in the coming years, at least for as long as negotiations are ongoing on the next seven-year EU budget plans. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-03-27-228	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next speaker is Mr Firtl Mátyás, KDNP.
u2017-03-27-229	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's development, ascension, the country's growth is our main goal and ambition. To this end, the Government of Hungary and the Parliament pay particular attention to the use of EU funds in order to achieve the social and economic policy objectives set out for the 2014-20 programming period. The effective use of EU funds should serve economic development, increasing the competitiveness of our country, strengthening the country, reducing territorial differences, and all with the aim of improving the daily lives of Hungarian people. It must serve to improve the living conditions of Hungarian people, to promote community interests and individual interests in them, to increase growth, and to promote the public interest in the most noble sense. Effectiveness and efficiency of use are therefore responsibilities, joint responsibility, honourable Members. In line with this responsibility, the government has committed itself to report on a quarterly basis to Members of Parliament on the progress of the use of EU funds provided to Hungary between 2014 and 2020 and, on the other hand, it has also organised a parliamentary debate day, as we are currently taking part in, so that, in addition to making comments, it can be made clear to everyone what process development policy is and where it is going. Ladies and gentlemen, Since the debate is about the use of EU funds, it is also important to recall that the original intended public good and growth based on values was the most important connective tissue, which defined the unity and functionality of the European Union when it was established. From this perspective, it is important that the use of resources should support Hungary's economic development efforts in such a way that it represents a new period of quality in the service of Hungarian and European values and common interests. This new quality applies to the purposes, directions and pace of use, but also to its effectiveness. The aim of today's parliamentary debates is also to create the opportunity to see whether or not we re-evaluate the use of money, its regulatory system, its functioning and its legal background, the system within which Hungary as a Member State has a precise margin of manoeuvre, which determines the possibility of using resources. During the period before 2013, the very limited margin of manoeuvre fundamentally defined the possibility of using resources when we could only spend 14 to 16 percent on economic development. The country, the economy, the entrepreneurial sphere, our local governments, the government and all of us consider that the 2007-13 cycle has finally been successfully completed, and I could say that we have made the unfavorable commitments of the previous governments effective. Thus, compared to the fact that in 2013 we seemed to be able to draw only 60 percent of the resources and become net losers, Hungary was able to draw the entire source, and what is more, we closed at almost 110 percent. This indicates the country's strength and ability to assert its interests, also based on its performance. In comparison, in the 2014-20 development cycle, a new room for manoeuvre was opened by the government's priority for economic development, which was almost agreed by both sides. [[17 .30]] Thus, 60 percent of the funds should be spent on economic development, so 60 percent of the HUF 7800 billion from the European Union should be spent on economic development in the 14-20 cycle. This is, of course, a resource without agricultural subsidies. After that, despite all difficulties and negative objections, the government successfully and effectively closed the 2007-13 cycle without loss of resources. In the current budgetary period, Hungary can obtain a significant source of development because it has successfully completed the negotiations for the period 14-20, and Hungary is among the winners in the allocation of funds during the start of the budget period. This means that Hungary is entitled to use HUF 12 thousand billion between 2014-20, together with rural development grants, resources and various agricultural subsidies. We must stress that this use of resources will be truly effective and successful if, in the post-2020 period, this will also be reflected in the performance of the Hungarian economy in such a way as to achieve a stable, developing economy. This means that he will be able to stand on his own feet even without external resources. So by 2020, the Hungarian economy must be in a position to have the power to make economic growth decisive and sustainable, not as an input from external sources, but as a function of the internal performance of the economy. The use of EU funds should also serve this objective. As an important element in the use of available EU funds, we also stress that, in order to ensure a strong representation of our national interests within the European Union legislative framework, while respecting transparency, without discrimination, we have an obligation to enforce the legitimate expectation of Hungarian economic operators that the European Union or domestic development resources should help to a decisive extent strengthen Hungarian economic operators. In this context, the creation of a competitive advantage can result from the increased use of resources by domestic SMEs, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises with export potential and all those involved in employment. This is why it is important and primary to use EU funds in the new financial cycle for investment in job creation as a means of promoting economic growth. This is closely linked to family support, home creation, and the service of the common good. Based on the experience of the previous EU financial cycle, it is important to make the call and use of resources more effective and to improve it with our tools available. This means speeding up investment and payments, given that cohesion policy is expected to be significantly changed after 2020 and that the exit of the British in the EU in 19 may lead to a reduction in the framework for development. According to the 2016 and 2017 payment commitment data, the 2016 closing date, as stated in the exposé, has been a successful year in development policy. The data clearly outline the need and opportunity to promote an increase in the inflow of EU funds, and to set this as a goal for ourselves. I note in brackets that the relatively weaker investment indicators indicated by many others could be expected, as most of the investments financed from previous EU funds were completed in 15 and the new developments had not yet started last year. By the way, according to the financial auditors, a two-digit increase can be expected in 17 of the investments. In assessing these processes, it is clear that the role of the region in a two-speed Europe will be appreciated in the future, and it is therefore important that current EU funds serve to overcome the economic competitive disadvantage. Ladies and gentlemen, As I referred to the founding of the European Union, the aim was the coherence between economic unity, national policies, uniform EU legislation, the establishment of a political community, at least in the original idea, and the European Union formed on the basis of the values of European culture. Mutuality, trust and solidarity between Member States, on which the European Community is based, are themselves moral values, which maintain a well-functioning and cooperative economic system, the other parts of which are decisive. The principle that the financial growth of the community is an instrument for the creation and protection of the values of the community, as is the case with Europe in defending economic interests and common values, is always important in the work of appreciative governance, the service and promotion of the common good. When Europe and the West are threatened, Hungary has no choice but to join the European Union, as it would be in Europe's interest to consolidate the community of values, which should serve economic policy, an economic policy that serves to strengthen the Member States, but also to consolidate the community of values. Hungary has recognised this, this is its task and necessary service in Hungary and within the European Community. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to give an account of some of the developments in my constituency, as regional development, reinforcing projects, building on each other, is a meaningful and efficient way of using resources properly. Thus, in the previous cycle, Sopron himself made HUF 22.4 billion in total development with HUF 19.9 billion in support, with an additional EUR 15-16 billion in support of the region, of course through TÁMOP, KIOP, KEOP, KÉOP, ÁROP. In the period between 14-20 our city and constituencies won 10 billion forints of EU funding until 17 March, further 2.2 billion forints of funding is under way, and the current plans allow us to submit an additional HUF 15 billion EU proposal in 2017. Further generous developments have been made in the region, which have increased the tourist attraction for the whole region. Just one example is to return to the castle program, the Esterházy Castle and cultural center served the tourist attraction of this area and the Fertőrákos Cave Theatre. And I didn't even mention GYSEV's development resources, which allowed for infrastructure improvements. What I think is also important to say quickly here is that, in recent times, it is important that the castle development programme in Nagycenk has also been launched and has become a national monument. I trust that it also belongs to a national pilgrimage place, which will continue to help our region and the region of the Fertő landscape, the world heritage, if you will, for tourism, tourism and economic development. Ladies and gentlemen, The documents of the debate day and the reports, comments and especially those of the settlements confirm that Hungary is on the right track to use EU funds, the transparency and transparency of which are supported by the debates. This will help to achieve the final goal, as I said at the beginning of my speech, that all the support is for the strengthening of the country. The country will be strengthened by a strong, well-functioning, dynamically developing economy, which is the basis for the creation of the common good, prosperity and, in this context, for all other areas, such as social care, health, education, culture and sport, and, of course, will give rise to family support, support for the elderly, home creation and quality development in all areas. [[17.40]] On the basis of these contexts, KDNP considers it important to hold such debates and I refer back to all Members to receive a full overview of the use of EU funds on a quarterly basis. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-230	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Gőgös for two minutes, MSZP.
u2017-03-27-231	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to draw a brief attention to the fact that the Secretary of State has also come back on agricultural and rural development aid. The problem, Mr. Secretary, I understand is that all the applications will be scheduled this week, and that's all right. I'm just asking you not to change the call five or ten times on the way, because it's killing the system. That's one of the problems. The other: these programmes will no longer be paid this year, as so far three applications have been evaluated, so much has been achieved in one year; three are. TS looks great, we're happy for you, 80 percent, so what the government spends on you is brilliant. The problem with all the others is that if, let's say, the applications are not published by June, then, let alone a payment, or a start-up, because at least three to four months is the public procurement lead time, everyone has to ask for a new offer for everything. This means that there will be no investment here before winter. They say they're going to pay 300 billion this year, if not otherwise, as an advance. Mr. Secretary. Those who receive a 110-percent bank guarantee don't need an advance, because it takes credit from the bank at a cheaper rate, so it shouldn't be mentioned that the advance will bring the money into the system. I'm asking you to look at this system, I don't know where it's going. It must be stuck somewhere, because there is no such thing as a manure storage development programme for a year, and there is no such thing as not being able to evaluate an indigenous animal application for a year. So we should definitely look at these, because there won't be a payment this year, next year or after, if that's the case. There was 100 billion payments last year, they say, of which 15 billion were part of this programme, the advance payment of AKG and KAT, which, by the way, does not have much to do with investment proposals, because it is more of an area payment. I would ask you to take this story seriously for the good of the profession, because this is going to be a terrible mess. That's all I want to contribute to this debate. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] If you don't see it, at least I'll tell you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Nándor Gúr applauds.]]
u2017-03-27-232	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik.
u2017-03-27-233	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, we had the opportunity to listen to the government's success propaganda. The report focused on how well and quickly the government is trying to get rid of the money that the European Union is giving us all in order to make the regions of Hungary, especially the rural regions, grow faster, develop and reduce their disadvantages. It is important to highlight this because, unfortunately, almost not a word has been said about these objectives, the substantive issues on which the EU Commission will judge the results of our government's money-sharing work. Based on what has been said, it appears that the sole purpose of the government is to spend money at any cost. The government claims that, in the 2014-2020 term, it is the responsibility of each Member State to spend the funds allocated to the Member States as soon as possible, and Hungary is considered to be a leading learner in the performance of this task on the basis of the figures presented here. Ladies and gentlemen, I must disappoint the government: the task is not to spend the funds for seven years in three years, but to make improvements from these sources that contribute to the reduction of differences between Hungary and the developed Western European countries. The real goal is to finance projects from these grants that will bring the country on a sustainable growth path. What has been said here does not in the least support the fact that we have moved towards these objectives in the last three years, and indeed what has been said here, provided that they are true, as we have been told here today, but that no action has been taken or will be taken in the future, since the funds have already been committed, so there is virtually no room for manoeuvre for the next half decade because of the lack of resources. If that were true, then the situation would be very sad, but fortunately, we can trust our government's so well-known big statement and hope that the data presented to us is highly cosmetic. So let's see the numbers that the institutional system has published on the official website in the last quarter. In all operational programmes, the total committed funds are HUF 4262 billion. This amount, for which the contract has already been concluded, can be found on the official website on 26 March, this published data is hopefully real. On the other hand, Minister János Lázár claimed that the contract stock in 2016 was 4000 billion, and that on the 6th of March this year the contract stock had already exceeded HUF 4600 billion. You answered the question I asked you on 13 March 2017, and you heard it here in Parliament. The reason for the difference between the data is unknown; there are no open data sources from which we can verify the actual situation. The elimination of publicly available data is due precisely to the system introduced by the Minister, probably not by accident. The amount of payments is also included in the official website: the total amount paid is HUF 1792 billion, this is also the 26th of March data. In his reply, the Minister stated that this amount had already reached 2000 billion in 2016, so I say that the current figure is 1792 billion, and that this year an additional 2300-2600 billion will be paid pro rata terms, so that in January, February and March, a quarter of this planned amount should have been paid, i.e. around 800 billion. There is also a significant difference between all payments on the website and the data received in the Minister's reply, some HUF 1000 billion, but in this case we cannot verify the authenticity and authenticity of any of these data. It is clear, then, that throwing huge numbers is only a way of distracting those who do not deal with development policy on a daily basis, but fortunately today we have the opportunity to address these people and perhaps to open their eyes. So the number war that the government is conducting in the field of development policy is false and misleading, and I'm afraid that the system is deceiving itself with these ingenious, meaningless numbers. This is not the measure of success and outcome, honourable Members. In reality, the calls for proposals will be amended several times before the deadline and the deadline will be changed almost always. This means that calls and related materials are assembled by the staff at a rapid pace. It is worse to assume that these preparatory work is carried out by staff who are not sufficiently prepared. I have repeatedly asked the authorities in the walls of this House to give a meaningful explanation of this phenomenon, but unfortunately, the answer was just throwing the usual meaningless numbers. 272/2014 setting out the basis and framework of the scheme. has been amended more times since the entry into force of the government decree than it has been in force for months. So the code rule that forms the backbone of the whole aid scheme is unstable, opaque for both applicants and institutional workers. I have also drawn attention to this problem in my previous comments, but it has not received a meaningful reply. Looking at the history of the system as a whole over the past three years, we must state without the slightest exaggeration that the Hungarian development policy has fallen victim to government looting, hush-hushing and, unfortunately, to the extent of corruption. We see systems that don't work, we see disintegrating institutions, we see overloaded or unprepared personnel, and we see that buddies' applications easily and quickly pass through this chaotic system, while simple Hungarian SMEs wait six months or even a year to make a decision. All this government propaganda is just saying that we have distributed all the resources, that we are throwing all the money away, and that it expects us and the country to assist and applaud this brazen work with a good image. How could anyone be happy that the current government is wasting the nation's seven-year development resources in two years for purposes that are only in the interests of friends, not in the interests of the nation, not in the interests of the country? ! I am sad, ladies and gentlemen, because this is the third time we have talked about this issue in this Chamber, but unfortunately, the situation has not been changed in substance. [[17.50]] But I'd like to say one positive thing at the end, a microsicer, maybe I could say that. In my question on 13 March, I asked the Minister responsible when the winners of the rural development programme were finally to be made public. Then, of course, he didn't answer the question, but he was just deluded, but guess what, now the publicly available data includes the name of about 12,000 winners and their tender ID. Thank you so much, you will interpret this to the Minister. I hope that my other requests will be heard over time. We finally got a little microsicer. We will continue to bomb you with our proposals that, we feel, would improve this development policy and that would actually lead you forward and not just get caught in the slammer. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-03-27-234	Thank you, Congressman. The next speaker is Congressman Jenő Manninger, Fidesz.
u2017-03-27-235	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, During the debate, there has been several questions as to whether Hungary's EU funds are at risk, as we have received numerous political threats in recent years to withdraw these EU funds. As has been said here, in particular with regard to the migrant issue, some European politicians said that funds should then be withdrawn. I think that these statements were clearly part of the political debate or, if I speak more strongly, political blackmail. Indeed, it is, as the EU Commissioner, Commissioner Oettinger, said, that development resources are a significant part of the EU-15, so it is also in the interests of former EU members. It has also been said here that according to some studies, 80 percent of Polish sources in Poland go back to Germany. There is often a debate as to whether it was worth entering the EU, whether EU funds are worth it. It is clear that it is not possible to divert these EU funds because it was part of an agreement where it came into force together with the free movement of goods, services, capital and labour. We know, it is quite certain that, in the course of capital flows, the capital incomes exported by foreign owners are in the first place much higher than the Hungarian owners bring home capital income. It is clear that we have fallen from a certain import revenue, which is 42 billion, according to the calculations. It is certain that the outflow of the labour force in Hungary also favours the EU-15 in the first place. It also has a mixed impact there, but it is primarily developing their economy, although I must say that this is also economically significant for Hungary. So if we want to set up a balance, there are a lot of studies that say that the Polish study speaks of 80%, but when I was previously an observer in the European Parliament, they recognised that it would be at least 40 percent. So we can be calm, on the one hand, because it is in the interests of the Union-15, that is to say, the Western European countries, on the other hand, I think that there is a compromise, and the Hungarian Government is obviously trying to make this mutually beneficial. Therefore, however, that this is also in the interest of the EU-15, Hungary must also have a fundamental interest, and I think that the treaties and programmes so far reflect this. Allow me to respond to some of the speeches in which we have clearly seen contradictions on the part of the opposition. It has been said that these programmes do not in any way increase economic growth; on the other hand, they say that the Hungarian economy and especially developments are only increasing because only EU funds increase them. Obviously, none of these claims are true in themselves. It is true that EU funds make a significant contribution to economic growth, there are various percentages of it and will continue to contribute in the future; the task is to prepare for economic growth when there will be no. On the other hand, such nonsense has been said here that health care has not received a single penny, that we have not used resources in health care. Over 500 billion forints is what we have used in the area of health care in recent decades. And it's not just the Fidesz guys that go into these, so that only the Fidesz guys would have done well, it's a nonsense, but I think that the fate of these hundred billion is enriching everyone, even if it doesn't solve all the problems. Obviously, the point is, after all, to develop a development policy that is in the interests of the whole country, and also to reduce the differences between different areas and regions. There were also speeches in this regard. I think it is clear that the programmes developed will reduce the catch-up of Hungary as a whole firstly, secondly, they are intended to reduce the differences between different regions, but this cannot be achieved by EU resources alone, as we now know that growth is primarily supported by the lack of skilled labour force and, on the contrary, by its existence. So I think, and let me conclude, that in the EU debate I can say that there have been such criticisms here that it should be paid more quickly. I agree with that. Of course, that's what the government is trying to do. There was no substantive comment or suggestion on how to use resources differently, what professional proposals are there within the programmes, how they should have been formulated differently, how the beneficiaries should have been different. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It doesn't have to be any other way, but quickly...]] In fact, we have not heard any professional criticism, either now or in previous EU debates, so I think that we are doing well with all of this, as has been said, compared to the previous EU cycle. Obviously, payments and procedures should always be accelerated and corrected. At the same time, I suggest that the opposition take a relative view of the situation and compare the data to the previous cycle. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-27-236	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos.
u2017-03-27-237	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, I would like to respond with a few thoughts to your speeches and to Commissioner Oettinger's statement as well as to the Polish study. I believe that it is indisputable that Hungary receives serious development resources from the European Union, as well as the fact that Hungary has been well discussed over the past period on EU development resources, as far as EU funds 2014-2020 are concerned. Today, in the debate, it has been said several times that Hungary is definitely one of the winners in the allocation of resources. As has been said, Hungary can use more than HUF 12,000 in this period with rural development resources, agricultural subsidies, not agricultural subsidies, but so-called normative agricultural subsidies, as well as domestic co-financing. [[Zoltán Gőgös: When we get it, Madam Secretary.]] However, we must not forget that our accession to the EU also affects the Hungarian economy through a number of other channels. With Hungary's accession to the European Union, it has become part of an economic area in which goods and services, capital and labour can flow freely. It should be considered how much tax revenue, customs revenue or economic growth the country has lost due to the fact that strong and technologically strong companies have come from the western Member States of the European Union to Hungary as service providers or even producers, which could only enter the Hungarian market before 2004 after paying certain protective customs duties. According to estimates by the former APeh and VPOP, the import revenue loss due to EU accession was HUF 42 billion per year. According to surveys, the amount of capital income exported by foreign owners exceeds the amount of capital income brought back from abroad by Hungarian companies. As has already been said, Commissioner Oettinger recently said that most of the money that the European Union is giving to Poland is flowing back to Germany. According to a German survey, this return on investment in construction is 80 percent. The Polish spend the money by ordering the German industry, buying German machines and trucks. Thus, the net contributor Member States, such as Germany, have an interest in structural and cohesion aid. From an economic perspective, Germany is not a net contributor but a net beneficiary. The economic community of the European Union also had a fundamental interest in catching up in the Eastern Central European and Baltic regions, exploiting economic and market benefits. I therefore believe, as many have already said in today's debate, that it is in the common interest of the European Union to maintain cohesion development in the future. [[18.00]] I would like to respond to Mr Szilágyi's speech. I do not know exactly what the question was for Minister at the time, but it is certain that today's data show that there is a project with 4703 grant decisions, so this is already granted aid, but this is not to be confused with those that already have a grant agreement, which is 4431. So here is about 270-280 projects that already have a positive decision but do not yet have a grant contract. Maybe that's where the number difference came from. As for the 272 amendment of legislation, a common amendment of legislation, I think that we are striving for development policy and, in fact, for the whole government to be a service in some way. To this end, we are having very wide-ranging debates and we are also conducting extensive professional discussions on, for example, what calls for proposals are being launched. We invite stakeholders to these professional debates, we try to embrace all stakeholders who contribute in some way either as beneficiaries or as executives to the drawdown of tender funds. This is precisely why the amendment of the 272 legislation, which may seem to be common, is precisely why we want to adapt the legislation to practical life. So there are cases for which we were not quite simply prepared, which can also be taken as a confession, obviously there are systemic or procedural problems to which the institutional system would like to respond, and therefore we are amending the law of 272. But I trust that this will not cause too much trouble for the administration of the state, for implementation. Thank you so much for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-238	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The next speaker is Congressman Sallai Benedek, LMP.
u2017-03-27-239	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I listened with great interest to the words of John Lazarus, and I would like to begin by responding to some thoughts. Overall, Minister János Lázár is only a little younger than I am, so perhaps he spoke in his introduction of the idea that the idea of a great idea, the idea of a common Europe, is the unity that Europe represents and the standard of living that Europe represents. This is important because, after the change of regime, our generation, who, in the middle of the 1980s, had once had the chance to look at the large stores on the Mariahilfer Strasse, or perhaps to go to Western Europe once outside Bulgaria, thought that the change of regime would bring the same European promise to the Hungarian society, which was the same quality of life as we could experience in Western Europe.In 2004, after the accession to the European Union, a long time after the change of regime, everyone thought that, at some level, the accession to a spent society had been made, and we were still hoping that the support system of the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund, the operational programmes, i.e. from the Structural Funds, before the cohesion funds that came, would be suitable for Hungary's dream of living as a citizen of Luxembourg, or living as a citizen of the Netherlands. We are getting all this money so that Hungary can give the same life to its citizens in the European Union as the citizens of the European Union will get from us to the West. And now what we need to talk about is not only how Fidesz has spent the resources of this budget cycle over the past period, but also how it has served this purpose, how we went in that direction, and when it spoke of the great idea, Mr. János Lázár, I wondered whether it had brought us closer in this direction. Looking through the daily press, I immediately found a very good answer, because I didn't have to do anything, just pop up the paper and see what HVG said. Hungary is split in terms of housing per 100,000 inhabitants and income. About the kind of standardization has deteriorated even within the country, if the flat per 100,000 people, or if you look at the average net earnings, you can say that the average earnings in Győr-Moson-Sopron County, Komárom-Esztergom County, Fejér County and the capital are between 161 and 226 thousand forints. On the other hand, it has half the income, that if anyone was born in Nógrád county, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, or was born in Békés county. The situation of those born in South Transdanubia, Zala, Baranya or even Szolnok County is hardly better. Technically, these resources did not draw us up to the EU's wages, but, in fact, these regions, regional aid, a significant part of regional aid, which was intended for regional catch-up, further strengthened the difference within the country. We are even further away from Europe. And when you look at the GDP per capita in Europe and you see that the worst regions of South Transdanubia, the South Great Plain, the North Great Plain and Northern Hungary are involved, you have to see whether the period since 2004 has helped us to catch up with these resources. So Minister János Lázár made me think, although he began to say from what sources this was, and he obviously explained how much profit the Hungarian market was. But at the same time, my opinion is that it doesn't matter what resources it comes from, it's public money. It doesn't matter whether it is the money of Hungarian taxpayers, the money of European citizens, the money of the state, it is a public resource that was meant to catch up with the country, create social justice, create a sustainable economy and create a better national structure. As a result, I, frankly, do not care that it is the money of Luxembourg taxpayers or the money of Hungarian taxpayers, this was the source of the nation, which could have been used to deal with these territorial differences at some level. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. He said, Minister, that they expect a 5.5 percent increase in GDP, I have read these figures, some say 4.5, some say 6 percent, and one thing is that they talk about GDP growth for a long time. At the same time, we continue to draw attention to the fact that this is a completely false indicator, this is a wrong indicator, because it does not answer the two most important questions in any way. One is how this occurs in distribution. If we buy a Szabolcsi citizen and buy a Sándor Csányi, will we look at their average income? How it will come about when we talk about GDP, if the masses are poor and a ten thousand selected media is enriched and it increases its use, this will not be the benefit of the whole nation. So the structure of economic income as to how this is distributed would be a fundamental issue. If we look at the differences between the poorest and the richest, we are at the end of Europe, or we are among the worst performers in the European Union, because if we compare ourselves with a Swedish citizen, we can see that the same society is breaking apart with amazing differences, which, by the way, HVG has written with these maps during today or the last few days. So it obviously doesn't mean that this is necessarily welfare, because measuring GDP often means just using money, not giving any reference to social well-being, nor to the justice of distribution, and I do not want to say blindly that this is a desirable goal in itself until we talk about it. Obviously, when you said, Minister, that on both sides of the horseshoe we should talk about, or agree on, whether Hungary should be strong, we do not basically talk about the structure in which this should be strong. So the former example is to be strong with Ripper Lőrincek? Let's make it a thousand Rippers for the country, so we can strengthen our economy, or should small and medium-sized enterprises be strong? Let society be strong, let's try to put it together. Your actions - obviously I do not want to deviate very much from the subject of debate - starting with a single-key tax, but aid policy is just right, which is precisely the injustice that is being increased. The interesting thing is that Minister János Lázár later referred to this, because he said that about 44 thousand businesses in Hungary were ready to receive these development resources. The question is: was there 44 thousand businesses, but how much was it that needed it? At the moment, the entire application system was used - even in the previous cycle - by those who were ready, who had the self-esteem to advance the systems, while those who had no funding to prefinance the difference at an aid intensity of up to 40 or 60 per cent, and who were cut off. The question is not how much was done, but how much would have needed these subsidies. Obviously, this is one of the most important indicators of the system for applying for money. I am pleased that you have mentioned the issue of agriculture, because we can now talk about the rural development programme, but we can also talk about other sources of the European Agricultural and Rural Development Fund. We've just done an analysis in the LMP, I've published it, I've gone out to a press conference, it hasn't shaken the public, but basically, let's face it, what we're talking about in direct payments is 3800 billion, so it's more than an Olympics, more than a Paks nuclear power plant expansion, just what we're giving farmers with normative support. But where does this money go? [[18.10]] 500 of the 180,000 applicants received 130 billion in 2016, exactly HUF 137 billion forints 994 million, which means that on average, all of these economies, which are usually one family or one group of interests, received HUF 275 million per economy, which is the largest. The other over 170,000 farms received the rest, which means that each of them, if divided, received an average of 2 million 900 thousand forints. 180,000 received 3 million forints, 500 received 27 million forints each. This is the support structure that represents all the other distributions. Anyone who can apply with good tender plans, good structure and pre-financing capabilities can move forward, strong ones can grow further, while those who are already partially disengaged in society, a small contractor who has sent his last employee and tries to maintain his family's forced business, has no chance of getting into the system and being able to move forward. That is why this type of agricultural support, which symbolizes this whole process we are talking about. 0.3 percent of applicants receive 21 percent of the funds in agriculture. I'm happy to send you the tables, but I know you believe me, it's about the kind of structure -- who doesn't believe me personally -- that's a bad structure. Basically, it places where it already is, the penny rolls where it finds the penny, and it cannot in any way catch up with the disintegrating Hungarian economy, small and medium-sized enterprises and the countryside where it is most needed. But still not in my notes, only in response to János Lázár: Minister said that the three most important questions to be answered are when, how, to whom we give these subsidies. That's what he said, these three are the most important. I really did, without thinking about it a lot, say why it is not the most important thing to give it, what social benefit it has and how it returns. Why is the most important thing when and for whom? You basically use spending money as an indicator in the tender system, they say that the faster we spend more money, the better. How stupid is that? What kind of financial perspective is that you have to spend money pretty quickly, because that's gonna be good? It's not like that. Just look at the last two or three weeks, here in Parliament, what happened: Tisza Castle or Grassalkovich Castle. A perfect example of Grassalkovich Castle, Hatvan. It's a wonderful, beautiful monument building, which is the heritage of the nation, and it's greatly renovated, with billion-dollar support to Sixty. And what happens a year or two after the renovation? They'll find out they can't keep it up. They paid for a multitude of improvements that will never be economically self-sustaining, will never make profit in life. Why is it not the primary consideration that these subsidies we are talking about are, if possible, in some form, making the investment that the European Union or even the Hungarian taxpayers invest in this? I have already said once in the Hungarian Parliament, forgive me for repeating myself, only a very, very kind study, which is about the use of EU funds, is a study on the catching up of Burgenland, which has been examined by an economist university team since 1995 and then by the director of international relations of the managing authority in Burgenland, who summarized it. This is the Austrian province neighbouring the Hungarian border, the county of Szabolcs in Austria, the most eastern segment, the most remote, the poorest and most problematic. The Austrian province has made the journey we are talking about in 20 years and has received the same amount of support per capita as Hungary, so there is no difference between Burgenland and Hungary in this respect. The developing Austria has become a leading region during these two decades, and with virtually EUR 2.2 billion of EU funding, the province of 280 thousand has achieved that at the moment, every euro in the economy has to do with what has been used from the EU. Instead, in Hungary, we did the dwarf viewers and all the memorable things that I think we don't need to talk about for a long time, because if I'm just talking about playground scandals or talking about - I'm not saying this, but Blikk wrote this title - that Voldemort's wife made a quarter billion in two years; or the programs were there for her. I wouldn't want to quote such a tabloid, but if you look at what happened to virtually all the others, there is the school path system of Zsolt Szabó's interest closed, there is practically the bike lookout in Tiszafüred, also a symbolic thing that will never make a profit in life. So they created something that they couldn't even start running after. Then there is the tourist project in Rakamaz, where public money has not yet been pushed in to prevent it from collapsing at all, there was also a funeral home in Rakamaz. So we could say long-term developments that will not make any profit in Hungary and will never make it possible for the EU funds to create a better quality of life, more income and a more secure livelihood for Hungarian citizens after the end of the grants. As long as we do not create this and the EU minimum wage is not adopted in Hungary, they can do whatever they want, but young people will be sucked away by the quality of life that Western Europe provides. As long as it is not possible for a skilled worker to earn as much wages as it is to the west of us, you and the governments following you will struggle with the shortage of professionals in Hungary. Obviously, this will fundamentally determine Hungary's fate. Mr. Secretary, you've been talking about the risks of centralization. He said, Minister, that the bureaucrats of the European Union would like to decide at a level of head of department what development policy should take place in Hungary. I must tell you frankly that this is a worrying process, only for me - as a former frequent candidate or as a rural resident - it is at least as much concern that a head of department of the Prime Minister's Office decides the grants, or perhaps it is decided by his secretary of state. As long as they cannot bring decision-making to a level where professionals will judge applications, who will look at their profitability or not involve local communities, this will be political money distribution, which you have not started, so don't be mistaken, and I will not say that this is your innovation, because there has been a similar trend before, but it will never be possible to achieve improvements that are essentially in the interests of the Hungarian people. I'm not surprised, I've just been talking to a co-worker from a tender firm who says that they are significantly more fond of the applications evaluated in the EU, the direct ones, because they are objective. When will it be realized in Hungary that an objective tender system should not decide what the mayor's party stand is or what the entrepreneur's interest is? It is very important that we talk about this and, if possible, put it out in the open, because, in addition to economically tearing this country apart with these resources, they are tearing it apart politically and socially, because the multitude of Hungarian voters, who have no idea what is going on in Parliament and who absolutely rightly hate politics and politicians, are forcing them into a situation where their life, future and livelihood depend on the political relations that the head of the city has. There is another very sad trend, which also characterizes Hungary's tender system, which I think is worth dealing with, and this is the beneficiary category of the proposals that have been announced. You're practically unable to run this country properly, I think that's a very clear fact. [[Defiance and interrogation in the pro-government benches.]] You're welcome. Accordingly, my belief is that more and more government actors have appeared in the Structural Funds and are increasingly trying to operate and maintain their local governments, their public institutions from the Structural Funds, could not be worse. In practice, most public institutions have been deprived of resources, from a multitude of background institutions, and I could talk about national park directorates, where, after taking away normative subsidies and agricultural subsidies, they would have to generate their own revenues, where there was an addiction to tender and they could not function differently. This is important because if you take the support away from the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, if you do not give it to people who would create local jobs and try to make their own museums, their own universities, their own nature reserve system, and make everything dependent on the EU application system through cultural actors from the museum networks, then it will never end up in the real target group of people. Forgive me, my fellow Members of the county of Bács-Kiskun, but I am personally convinced that a well-organized criminal group has taken over Hungarian legislation and the Hungarian government, and there is practically nothing else going on here but how public money can be pumped out. The reason I respect many of you is because I have no idea who's involved in this party, who's not involved, so I don't want to say to anyone that they're all guilty, but basically the way to make public money flow and go into private pockets. The European Union's tender system is currently almost exclusively for this purpose, and very, very few are the truly welcome and good programmes to which it is worth considering. It is interesting what Mrs Secretary of State said in her reaction, she mentioned that the Poles would specifically return the aid to the Germans, because I think they would buy German tractors or refer to this. Yeah, that's right. [[18.20]] A significant proportion of EU funding will be returned in Hungary as well. The last support I won, please don't laugh, it was a goat milking machine. [[Defiance. Interviews from Fidesz, including: What are your contacts?]] It is fun to talk about these applications because the Hungarian Times recently wrote that not only Fidesz people can win, and all the support they have shown was a pre-2009 decision. So the Hungarian industry does not produce goat milking and sheep equipment. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] This shows that, in practice, these subsidies went to the wrong place. What Madam Secretary is talking about is why, let's say, we are giving the support to buy a multitude of Hungarian machines and return them to the Italian industry and to the German industry, so who said that these subsidies could not be used to create the Hungarian industry? Who says you can't reconstruct? Why don't you go that way? Why is there no agricultural machinery? Why do we give support to someone who can buy German equipment from Krone and Kuhn companies when there is a Hungarian opportunity to produce it, but there are no resources available to create production capacity? It's an emergency. This is an emergency situation for both the Polish peasant and the Hungarian peasant. Technically, he can only use a multitude of resources in the way it is given in the government structure. I guess for most people who do this, it's familiar to the fact that basically you can make a lot of development resources out of machine catalogs and construction standard collections, and then we won't talk about how to get into this. At the moment, if the multitude of development resources are already targeted and determined where money can be used and only grants can be used from one target group, it tells us where these resources are going and the user cannot benefit directly from it. As a result, I think that the use of these development resources has been extremely wrong, contrary to the interests of Hungarian society, not only that it has improved the structure of Hungarian society in the past, but it has significantly deteriorated it, it has further torn the country apart, and as long as your success indicators and indicators are about how to use money as quickly as possible, and the better the system will be, the faster the money spins, this situation will not change. At the moment, to a villager living in South Transdanubia, Somogy County, to a multitude of villages north of Miskolc, to a multitude of villages in the Central West region, all these subsidies mean nothing, because they have no impact on their lives. As long as the lives of a multitude of people are not affected by the Structural Funds, the source of rural development funds, it has not achieved its goal, and it is not good for much other than government PR. Please accept that, at the moment, my speech is not anti-Fidesz and KDNP. He was basically trying to refer to the systems for the use of the Structural Funds since 2004 and to the fact that Hungary would simply need a different vision and a different use of resources in order to emerge from the low point and the pothole that you and your irresponsible governments have taken him to in the last 20 years. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-03-27-240	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2017-03-27-241	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The fact is that your representative, Ákos Hadházy, is attacking exactly those projects, and by the way, that's what you did to reduce territorial differences. The Hungarian State has taken certain public services into the state's power to reduce territorial differences, and you are consistently attacking these projects. [[Sallai R. Benedict: We're attacking theft!]] That is why we are launching the priority projects that have been attacked by Mr Hadházy and you, because we believe precisely that there is a need to reduce territorial differences. What do you want now? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't steal it!]] They are attacking projects that have only been called upon. In fact, I can go further than that, Congressman Hadházy is holding press conferences on projects that have no such project, no decision of support, and we have not paid anyone a penny. Ákos Hadházy is holding a press conference. [[Dr. István Apáti: You can see the future! Intercom from Jobbik: Corruption!]] Congressman, that's not a corruption account, that's a bullshit you guys do every week. [[Z. Pápat Dániel: This is called democracy! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] That's the thing. The fact is that when you attack these projects, there is nothing else but that they are attacking the institutions of the Hungarian state instead of attacking us. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Long live the party!]] attacking Hungarian officials, attacking Hungarian public servants and attacking Hungarian government officials [[Dr. István Apáti: Tell me something about machine production.]] And the same people who work for you, who work for the Hungarian people, are attacked by these people when they attack the state project evaluation when they attack the evaluation. We don't decide on applications. 2,700 people are included in the evaluation system where decisions are made on which projects are worthy of support and which are not. 2700 prepared Hungarian public servants decide, on the basis of objective criteria, which projects should be supported and which should not. You're attacking these people. They are attacking people who work for you and the Hungarian state, working every hour of the day. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Do you believe that?]] Congressman, I don't think that's the right strategy. Ask not us, but your own fellow Member, why you are holding a press conference about it, which is not yet written out, is not signed, is not paid. Find out first, find the necessary information otherwise [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: This is what is called parliamentary democracy, that others can speak!]] and then we can talk about it, but you are stealing public confidence by destroying the trust of the Hungarian people with fake photos from week to week with completely untrue statements. [[Dr. István Apáti: Agricultural engineering!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-242	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos.
u2017-03-27-243	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to respond to Mr Sallai's words with a few thoughts. On the one hand, when you say that most Hungarian citizens do not feel anything from EU sources, I simply believe that it is false. Without EU funds, Hungarian GDP and investment would have decreased, we wouldn't have gotten out of the excessive deficit procedure, public debt would have increased. This is not only the merit and advantage of a certain circle, but I think it is very important for all Hungarians. And I'm sorry about that, but I'm most definitely asking myself that I'm a member of any kind of party. I work in the Hungarian government for 12-16 hours a day, and I wouldn't call it a party; so it's definitely not a party. We are working to ensure that development resources reach everyone, including those mentioned in his speech, even though he has otherwise made completely contradictory statements about what sustainable projects there are, whether there are sustainable projects at all, and when he says that we should support dying small and medium-sized enterprises or micro-enterprises. I do not think that the purpose of development resources would be to give it to anyone, otherwise, as income support, so-called social assistance. It is very important that it be sustainable, job creation and, by the way, the economy is improved by the support given. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-244	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that you have given Mr Zoltán Balczó, MEP, three minutes of the time frame set for the Jobbik Group, so that you can speak within a total of four minutes, together with a one-minute speaking time per independent Member. You have the floor, Congressman Zoltán Balczó.
u2017-03-27-245	Thank you for the floor, and I'm sorry I had to burden you with such a long introduction by virtue of my status. Minister of State Csepreghy corrected a statement, called it an expired warranty, because what I mentioned was Viktor Orbán's famous statement on cheap labour and the flexibility of the Labour Code in order to seduce Saudi investors, and he mentioned that he had since declared at a chamber meeting that the time when Hungary was inviting investors here with cheap labour was over. I trust that's true. I am reading now that Mitsubishi is planning a large investment in this region, which is why Romania, Hungary and Slovakia are fighting each other. In parentheses, Dr. Magdolna Csath published an excellent analysis of the social usefulness of such an investment. Now the latest news is that Slovakia is out of the race. Why? Because the wages are high. Well, I trust that we are not trying to attract this new car assembly plant to Hungary under Romania's promise. [[18.30]] Let me also talk about corruption, as it was one of the main areas of this debate. Of course, there was, unfortunately, corruption, there is and there will be. The question is, what is its scale and what is its style, let me put it this way. Well, what Minister Lazarus did very creatively was that he said that some civil society body had stated that he was looking at four major entrepreneurs, that at that moment they saw that this had received 4.5 per cent of EU funding, and he immediately said that on this basis the remaining 95 and half were fine. Let me just give you one example, and this example is because it is not necessarily the amount of money that is socially destructive, but, where appropriate, the suspected fraud by a public player with EU money. Obviously, he's not here, I'm not going to mention his name, because we've only come to the indictment, so I'm talking about a certain Lord Voldemort, who, indeed, I believe, may be in that 95-and-a-half percent, and many others. Otherwise, it occurs here that the rogue opposition can do nothing but accuse the government of corruption. Let me quote to you the Batthyány Circle of professors who may not be accused of evil opposition, who have formulated the following. In particular, corruption seems to have become an established social practice, i.e. institutionalized, based on the methodology, structure and staff of individual sin. Sadly, corruption accusations have affected confidence in those in power, even in Christian national circles. I didn't say that. What I want to say briefly is the size and future of cohesion money. Corina Crețu, Commissioner for Regional Policy, said at the meeting of the relevant committee in the European Parliament: cohesion policy has been designed for all regions from the outset, and we do not want to distinguish between poor and rich. Of course, the rich regions should also develop, but isn't cohesion money for catching up? And the Commission says that we do not make a difference. This is also a very dangerous direction against which the Hungarian government, anyone, us, Members, must object. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-27-246	Thank you, Congressman. We're gonna have two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sallai Benedek, LMP.
u2017-03-27-247	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to respond very briefly to Mr Secretary of State, as he said that we are attacking Hungarian public servants and the people and professionals working in them. Indeed, there are reasons for many. Not everyone, because for a lot of people, when we talk about how, after a change of regime, we're... The question is how, what are these people now afraid of? Who are those who, say, wrote spectacularly on two or three acacia columns during the playground scandal? Obviously, there's a lot of people at this party. Yes, Madam Secretary, he specifically said this word: there may be people left out of it, and that is why I said that I do not condemn all the Fidesz people uniformly, because on the one hand, he only assists in all this filth and the other part does it, but it is clear that theft must be systemic. Because if they go out to check, they approve the payments, they refund the payments, and when OLAF comes, they pay for the thefts on all Hungarian people's money. Obviously, this is the trend that is very difficult to say no to. I am still responding to Mr. State Secretary because he said that my colleague Ákos Hadházy is attacking the Hungarian system. It's very hard not to attack. So you shouldn't toss the balls. About the affairs of the National Roma Municipality. You know what this is about, and you know it. Is that what you're protecting? Does ETUS have to be protected? But we can do it all the way here. It doesn't connect to Voldemort's wife, but it's at Lake Tisza: it's 6 billion for the water industry to replace the mud. They put it in the middle, and within a year and a half, they were all washed back. It's like Déva Castle. Six billion went to it. And besides running the water business, nothing happened. And there's a lot of these: 40-inch lookout tower on Bodrogkeresztúr. The thermal bath was renovated from one and a half billion sources, partly from the EU, in Nagyszépás, and the geothermal system never started to work next to it. Was it worth it? How many of these are there? Who's to blame for that? Gyurcsány? Or who? George Soros? Norwegians? So, obviously, they've taken over a lot of burdens, taken over a lot of problems, but these things I'm telling you, a lot of them are 2015 programs, 14 programs, your decision-making, and seven years after their government, pointing back is completely ridiculous. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-27-248	Thank you very much. Two minutes to Congressman Zsolt Legény, MSZP.
u2017-03-27-249	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the statement by Secretary of State Schanda [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: He pushed it a little too far!]] I understand that you wanted to defend the mundé's honour, but it is very interesting to have a fidesz mentality and fidesz pace, that when the opposition refers to corruption-suspecting situations or cases, or mentions them, it is immediately behind the defence that you - the opposition - are not attacking Viktor Orbán and attacking his system, but, say, the entire Hungarian public service. This must be rejected immediately, because, of course, we are aware that Hungarian public servants should be referred to only with the voice of respect for the work they are doing. However, when opposition representatives, Mr State Secretary, highlight such problems, they are not attacking Hungarian public servants, but attacking Viktor Orbán and his system. And there are more people here in the parliamentary horseshoe, either among the representatives of Fidesz or other parties, who, as a history teacher, have more historical knowledge than I do, but we must say that, in my knowledge, the Sun King, XIV. Louis said the state was me. With Viktor Orbán and his gang acting like this, we are aware of that, but we will be absolutely critical of this absolutistic system, which is what we have done so far, and we will continue to do so. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-03-27-250	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2017-03-27-251	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, We're talking facts here. [[Dr. Zsolt Crew: Yes! Exactly!]] When they attack the evaluation system, when they attack people who otherwise appreciate these applications, on the basis of objective criteria, they attack Hungarian public servants, Hungarian officials and institutions of the Hungarian state. They're not attacking us! I don't decide the applications. In the framework of the public project evaluation, government officials and civil servants decide on these applications. They're not attacking me, they're attacking them, they're hurting their honor. Mr. Congressman, when you say that these people are otherwise involved in all kinds of shit, they are not accusing us, they are questioning their honor. That's what I'm talking about. That's what it said here. No? Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-252	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpa for two minutes, Jobbik.
u2017-03-27-253	Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary, I think you've pushed the party rhetoric a little too far. [[Noise, interruptions in the benches of Fidesz.]] It's quite amazing: it wasn't about objective criteria. What we should be talking about here is that your certificate is not at all spotless, for example, in euros, where wages have grown almost the least in recent years. They cannot show any healthy multiplier effect on the use of EU funds. You've wasted opportunities all the more. I'll give you a specific example, okay? Answer me, please. With regard to building energy, certain types of display have been tried to comply, but the possibility for the population, i.e. for residential use, was essentially closed, even though it would have been possible, on the basis of EU standards, to make such opportunities available to masses in the event of a population leap at least one level of energy. In the final case, we suggested that at least the CSOK's preferential loan should be extended so that if Hungarian people jump at least one energy level in their apartment - in a very nasty word - they could take on this discount option. You guys swept this off the table. There is no national inventory because you have not prepared it, there is no EU balance sheet, because you have not prepared it, we do not know that in your strategic contracts, some of which have been signed in secret or at least with vague details, you have raised the principle of equalisation of wages at all, or that any intention of raising wages would have been displayed. We can be enlightened in this regard, but not all points of every contract are public. We don't know that. What we do know, however, is that your team at the EU summits has never once raised the existence of a robbing mechanism whereby Hungary competes with you in terms of the cheapness of the labour force and that Hungarians are being robbed in this country despite their honest work. In addition, in terms of job creation grants, you give generous support to certain multi-company companies, such as the social-liberal economic governance I called cursed two cycles ago. So there's not much to go on. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They should be proud. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-27-254	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. [[18.40]]
u2017-03-27-255	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for the suggestion, as regards the use of residential energy. Here, as far-right party from Jobbik, communist voices are surprisingly heard in this Parliament, there are 3.3 million households in Hungary. On what basis should a government decide to grant non-refundable aid and not to which one of them? Because if all the support that could be used to modernise residential energy would be divided into private apartments, then this source would not be enough for one percent of this housing volume, let alone one tenth. That is why the government decided, including your proposal, on the occasion of the previous debate, to open a refundable scheme, where the energy savings of the apartments may be sufficient to manage the monthly repayment for the refundable scheme, i.e. a zero-percent loan. Through the Hungarian Development Bank points, the government will start and distribute these projects around the height of June. The government has decided to devote the resources available for energy efficiency investments to the energy modernisation of public institutions where we meet with a high number of cases or where there is a large number of residential uses; health care systems, social care systems and education systems. If they manage to reduce the cost of energy, i.e. the cost of state maintenance, and on the residential side, we create a green financing facility where the form of credit can be financed from return, then I think that the government is acting fairly. There is neither the basis nor the financial source today for developing all 3.3 million households in this way, and if there is no possibility, I think that there should not be an intention for a central right-hand government. The aim is to make these apartments more modern, but where the development is carried out on private property, the owner of the property should have at least the same investment in this cost as the state commitment that appears in what is essentially the zeroing of interest charges. Compared to a market structure, there are no interest charges of 2-5-10 per cent, but essentially zero per cent, so you have to repay this loan for several years at the nominal value of the Hungarian state, Hungarian taxpayers or European taxpayers. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-256	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next announced speaker was Mr Gábor Bányai, Member Fidesz.
u2017-03-27-257	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Since last year's European Development Debate Day, not only has much water flowed down the Danube and its tributaries, but much has also changed in the progress of the development programmes financed by the European Union and the Government of Hungary. Starting with the fact that the third Hungarian development plan, the Széchenyi 2020 programme and its implementation, despite all the delaying external and internal intentions, has been completed in summary and pro rata time, and the development and payments of the 2007-2013 period have also been completed by Hungary and the government. There was literally a call for proposals tsunami and, even this week - we heard from the Minister - for Hungarian applicants, entrepreneurs, businesses, municipalities, our churches and civil society organisations. Despite the many questionable voices that claimed that the country would not be able to draw the available funds, the fact is that in most areas the country seems to have a much greater need for financial development than we would have the opportunity to do. In other words, a significant part of the domestic economy has finally recovered from the depression and collapse of the 2008-2009 global economic crisis and wants to grow, compete and grow, and seems to be already able to do so. Moreover, it can be seen that there is a considerable need for available resources, since there are rural development programmes with 8-12 times the demand for the labels as well as the available resources. We can say that the progress of the EU development period has been successful since the four months since our previous debate and in the year behind us in 2016. Let us not forget that the Hungarian development operational programmes were adopted between August and December 2015. For two years, the European Commission has thought about what Hungary accepts, and we know that the Hungarian plan has been rewritten by the government and our experts many times. In spite of this, Hungary closed a successful year in 2016. 85 percent of the available development and financial framework has been announced by the government, with a contract of more than HUF 4,000 billion, with a committed tender and a candidate, and payments have already been made for nearly HUF 2000 billion. Ninety-seven percent of the 2016 payment plan was fulfilled. Several development target areas fulfilled their 2016 payment plans at a rate of more than 100 per cent. Such was the operational programme for human resources, the operational programme for public administration development, the environmental and energy operational programme, the regional programmes and the operational programme for economic development and innovation, each with a performance of more than 100 per cent. And transport development achieved 134 percent of last year's plan. It is very important to note, my fellow Members, that the 2016 commitment plan has also been substantially implemented. True, because the rural development programme was adopted very late, there is a significant lag, but the majority of the area is 83 percent fulfilled. Let me tell you some information about the plans that the government has submitted, and the sources that have been announced that they have developed precisely numerically, or that Congressman Sallai Benedek has now left, I would like to tell him a few numbers. The results have been as follows since the previous debate on 25 November. There were 125 new calls, and now there were 418 calls on March 20, a week ago. The announced budget has increased by HUF 1898 billion, and now the announced budget is HUF 9403 billion. The number of projects received increased by 47 987 units. The number of supported projects increased by 4068 units, the number of projects contracted by 3760 pieces, and the number of projects with payment by 9100 pieces, and the amount of payments increased by HUF 858 billion in the last year. To conclude - [[Interjection.]] Thank you very much, Congressman from the background - which is very important for us to clarify... [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] In his previous speech, Mr Sallai said a lot of things, seven and a half months. It's just an example for everyone to understand, he was talking about machine catalogs and mugs in the framework of agricultural subsidies. Just for the record, there are no machine catalogues, and there are a number of cases for him here, the development of tens of thousands of successful entrepreneurs and local governments. And I must reject his dehonest statements in their name. 4-5-6-8-10 failed applications prevent an entire country from being accused of corruption and bad tenders and inefficient improvements. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-03-27-258	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker is Mr Nándor Gúr, notary, MSZP.
u2017-03-27-259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that the use of European Union funds is obviously for no other purpose than to increase the economy. This use of resources should be basically trying to reduce, let's say, differences within the country. It shouldn't be where a lot of bag companies are born in different sizes. Over the past few years, according to our records, 5400 bags have been created with no employment, but there is a profit or return of more than HUF 100 million per year. You can see that this would certainly not happen without a kind of corruption background. It is also worth considering how our situation is not only within the country, but also, let us say, within the region. They have gone by our side - no matter what we are talking about, development, wages or the other side of things in terms of competitiveness - we see that the positional situation of the seven Hungarian regions has not improved with the use of European resources. According to the corruption research institute, there are already proportions, and they see the light of day, which I'm almost full of myself, in terms of overpriced public procurement. [[18.50]] You all know that, for public procurement, one third of public procurement is one-playing public procurement, and not for a few ten million forints of public procurement values, but for a thousand million forints of public procurement or ten times more than that, they become real and true. And in this respect, the scale of the overpriced can also be taken. Solid estimates are 25-30 percent, and according to the above-mentioned corruption research institute, overpriced can reach 140-320 percent. At the same time, if it is corruption, then if we look at things from the other side in terms of competitiveness, we can see that our competitiveness has deteriorated within the framework of the European Union. Taking into account 28 Member States, we are twenty-fiveth in a row. So, with or without the use of a lot of EU money, such a situation has emerged. I do not want to get into it, because it has already been mentioned here, but in Hungary, the difference between poverty and wealth, between the poor and the rich, the scissors have opened in the last seven years. To whom do these sources reach, how, how? Well, we can say with a calm spirit that these resources basically get to buddies and pereputty. 1 per cent of applicants carry one third of the funding for these funds in order to reach them. You don't really think that's okay, do you? You don't really think this is how it's supposed to work, do you? For example, if we look at what Hungary looks like on the corruption rankings, we have been reaping from the not-so-famous 50th place in the previous period, and we have now managed to get to 57th place. But if we look at the situation of our competitiveness in terms of the regions, we can see that outside the region of Central Hungary, which is located in the two-thirds lane of the 263 region, it does not occupy the highest position there either, because 152. in the ranking, then all other Hungarian regions, i.e. all six other Hungarian regions, are in the 205-232. And in his process, he made his position worse, and that must be added. And indeed, there are surfaces for which, for example, the region of North-East Hungary, say, in terms of health competence, occupies the second-to-last position. Well, in this respect, I would like to make it clear that there is something very wrong with the use of resources, because neither Hungary nor the people of Hungary are in the interest of what you are creating as a result of the use of resources. Or at least it can be said with a calm spirit that it is not properly served, because the processes are not a positive orientation, but rather a negative one. Such is the fact that, if these resources were not available, they would not be able to account for the added value of the new goods produced in terms of economic growth; GDP growth would not be an increase, but a decrease. But even in a calm spirit, we can say that the shameful employment situation - because it is not for foreigners to be counted and for public workers - would be worse, and they would not even be able to account for what it is today. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-03-27-260	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary, Congressman. The next announced speaker was Mr László Szászfalvi, Member KDNP.
u2017-03-27-261	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to go a little more peacefully in my speech, because I would like to talk for a few minutes about church support, knowing that we are talking about a small part of the European Union's development cycle when we talk about the support of churches. Although it is a small segment of the overall EU development resources and the development framework, it is extremely important for us KDNPs. Why is cooperation with churches, support and support important to us? I'd like to apply some of the articles of the Fundamental Law, some of its ideas. I quote the important sentence of the preamble that we recognise the role of Christianity as a national preserver, and appreciate the different religious traditions of our country. Then the Fundamental Law VII. In Hungary, the state and churches operate separately, the churches are independent, the state cooperates with the churches for community purposes. The constitutional separation of the state and churches therefore protects both the autonomy of the churches and the autonomy of the state, while at the same time allowing their common goals, our common goals for the benefit of society, together for the benefit of the nation, to function more effectively together, complementing each other, than if they were to do so separately. Both the state and the churches represent the common good, they must represent it with their own specific opportunities and instruments. Churches have been a key contributor to education, education, the social sphere and health care for centuries. The tradition, the responsibility and commitment that has evolved along the lines of Christian principles and values over the past centuries and has been realized, still determines the life of the Hungarian nation and the life of Hungarian society. In fact, over the last decades, this social service and this social engagement and commitment have increased, strengthened and expanded. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Before 2010, socialist-liberal governments discriminated against churches and ecclesiastical legal entities by various means. This discrimination has taken place in the legislation, and this discrimination has been achieved with regard to domestic resources and the financing of the institutional system. Here I would refer to the fact that in 2010 and the following years, the churches had to repay billions of forints just because the previous governments did not pay the norms of the ecclesiastical public education institutions. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] However, this discrimination also took place in respect of EU funds in the 2007-2013 EU cycle, as there was hardly a tender title for which churches, ecclesiastical institutions or ecclesiastical legal entities could apply at all. This was the case for some applications, but in the overwhelming majority of applications and various operational programmes, churches and church institutions were unable to apply because there was no possibility, there was no legal possibility. The challenge after 2010 was to ensure that churches and their institutions have the same chance of accessing funds as all other institutions, as well as all other bodies serving the public good and performing public tasks, in terms of both EU and domestic resources. Uniform and equal funding had to be ensured in all areas of public service, and the work of churches and church institutions in disadvantaged areas and settlements had to be supported and supported, including by helping to maintain the population in villages, small settlements and disadvantaged areas. It was also a challenge and a challenge after 2010 to ensure the involvement of churches in Roma integration, as well as in the catching-up and different equal opportunities programmes as an opportunity and equal opportunities. I think that this is why it was extremely important that, for the 2014-20 European Union budgetary and development resources, churches and church institutions and church legal persons are able to apply and obtain funds for almost all operational programmes. With regard to churches, this affects 568 independent religious public education institutions in over a thousand places in the country, so it is not true in this respect that European Union funds do not affect the lives of Hungarian citizens and Hungarian society. [[19.00]] During the school year 2016-17, nearly 208 thousand students studied, and more than 20 thousand students are studying in 22 church higher education institutions. Of the students attending public schools, nearly 206 thousand of them chose faith education in the academic year 2015-16. The domestic budget also provides an increasing proportion of resources for educational development, in particular building renovation and modernisation, and, of course, the EU funds provide resources for educational methods, infrastructure, digital competence and career guidance development for institutions providing church public service in the past and the subsequent period. Let me highlight some of these opportunities. This is the EFOP 4.1.1. application title, HUF 14.4 billion directly to the development of ecclesiastical public education institutions, 23 ecclesiastical institutions received support from this source. Article 4.1.5 of the EFOP is an invitation to non-State institution-holders to develop infrastructure in public education institutions with a budget of HUF 16.2 billion. Such a tender is then an option to strengthen the role of the EFOP 4.1.6. in support of public education, HUF 5 billion for educational and pedagogical agencies, and the EFOP 3.2.3. tender title, which is the digital environment in public education, a budget of HUF 6.3 billion to improve the quality of digital education and to halt digital detachment. The potential beneficiaries of the human resources operational programme are therefore ecclesiastical organisations. Developments available to ecclesiastical, civil and ethnic organisations will allow for more efficient provision of public services, including community development, compensation for disadvantages, catching-up programmes, complex development of social and child protection institutions, infrastructure renovation of schools, school programmes and regional programmes. My fellow Members of Parliament. Dear Parliament, What are these sources, what are these proposals, if not proposals for catching up, if not for disadvantaged settlements, for disadvantaged areas, for the inclusion of disadvantaged social groups? Let me also highlight a few of these calls for proposals: the EFOP 1.3.7. call for proposals to strengthen social cohesion by expanding the community-building activities of churches. The call provides HUF 8 billion for church and civil society communities to carry out compensation activities, which may include prevention, social sensitivities and thinking. The aim is to integrate peripheral communities into society. Then the EFOP Item 1.9.8., which is about supporting the social public service provision of church and civil society organisations, has a budget of HUF 5 billion for church and civil society communities on this call. The aim of the call is the complex development of social and child protection services. In this sector, church and civil engagement is increasing, and national coverage enables them to perform a quality task of a unified approach system. Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 establishing an Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance (IPA II) (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. It allows charitable and humanitarian organisations to develop infrastructure, improve storage conditions and acquire assets. The total amount of the call is HUF 4.5 billion, the eligible funding amount is between HUF 200 and HUF 650 million. Finally, the call item EFOP 4.1.1. is about individual church infrastructure developments. The call is open to schools with church reservations, many schools, gymnasiums, infrastructure investments, and it allows for a total value of more than HUF 14.4 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, In addition to EFOP development resources, I can also mention the operational programme for economic development and innovation beyond the operational programme of human resources as an opportunity for churches and ecclesiastical legal entities. For example, GINOP 7.1.4. is already in the preparatory phase of decision preparation, the promotion of ecclesiastical cultural heritage, which provides HUF 7.3 billion for churches and church legal persons, but the same source is also the GINOP 7.1.6. application title, the call for the development of world heritage sites. In addition, it can be mentioned that the operational programme for environmental and energy efficiency, the COHEP, should also be mentioned. For example, KEHOP Item 5.2.1: Building energy development of ecclesiastical hospitals can benefit from several ecclesiastical health institutions and hospitals, worth billions of forints. A total of HUF 12.2 billion will be granted in the priority project entitled Building Energetic Developments of Churches with the possibility of using renewable energy sources, and applications may be submitted by church legal persons. In addition, it is essential to mention the rural development programme, such as the heading VP 6-7.2.1-7.4.1-16, which supports the external reconstruction of buildings defining settlements, the creation, development of a multifunctional community space, and the energy modernisation of it, which is available in a HUF 26.8 billion framework, including for churches and church legal entities. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, What are these resources, which are resources that can be obtained for churches, ecclesiastical rights, ecclesiastical institutions, such as development resources, catching-up resources, which all affect parents, students, beneficiaries, teachers working in institutions, caregivers, social professionals whose working and living conditions will be improved by these sources of application, the realisation of these sources of applications. We are sure that we may all be so, perhaps, that the European Union's funding for applications to churches and church institutions will all go to the right place and will all be used effectively in the coming years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-262	Welcome back to my fellow Members. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2017-03-27-263	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, As Congressman said, we expect churches, church organizations in our development, especially in the Human Resources Operational Programme, to be involved in churches. We are counting on you to catch up in society, we are counting on church organizations in the context of population development programmes, we are counting on public education developments and the affairs of unqualified school leaving. [[19.10]] It should also be said that social changes and changes in the Public Education Act have led to a significant increase in the maintenance tasks of the educational institution at the churches. The number of institutions maintained by churches has recently increased by more than 60 percent. At the same time, the structural state of institutions returned to the treatment of churches is often poor, outdated or in many cases unable to meet those important social policy goals, such as the provision of daily physical education. For this reason, as the Member mentioned, we have several educational developments, and we have launched several educational developments that can be achieved, in particular, by churches or non-state maintainers. Of these, it is indeed worth highlighting some of the applications entitled The EFOP 4.1.1., which received support from 23 ecclesiastical educational institutions. The total value of these projects is more than HUF 14 billion, and the project is already being implemented here, so that I can refer back to opposition charges, and here it is really felt in the field that these developments have started and will conclude with results that can contribute to the education of hundreds of thousands of young Hungarians. The other proposal is also available, which is currently open to tender, which is the title of infrastructure development of public education institutions with the code EFOP 4.1.5. Here, too, we look forward to applications from churches, civil society organisations, who are also involved in educational institution maintenance. Here the available budget exceeds HUF 16 billion. With the help of this competition, new community spaces will be able to be created within schools, sports yards, playgrounds will be created, specialized classrooms and classrooms will be renovated and renovated by church and private supporters, and thus the quality of Hungarian education will increase significantly. Honourable Congressman, We look forward to and encourage churches and church organizations to participate in as many applications as possible. I would not mention what other options are in the framework of the operational programme for human resources, since they would use a lot of time from the time frame available. We do not have much of a call for proposals that we do not allow for churches, because they are important to us, we recognise the value-creating work that they do in everyday life. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-264	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt.
u2017-03-27-265	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Listening to the speakers before me, the representatives of the government and the representatives of the government are basically characterised by a view of how much money we can draw, how much money we can spend, but the amounts spent alone show only uneven results, as we have repeatedly asked us to draw a balance from our accession to the EU to our day. A real balance, which I believe is that if we are really talking about a success story, it would be in your interest and the European Union's interest to withdraw the form in which Hungary came out in terms of macro numbers, so not just taking into account the amounts that have flown, we have made progress in terms of macro numbers, we may not have gotten anywhere, or we have moved back. It is often overlooked that, in addition to the coming EU funds, when we joined the Union, what were the disadvantages that we had to suffer. It is enough for our market-opening industry and manufacturing industry to think about the practical destruction, the destruction of small businesses and medium-sized enterprises, all of which should be included in the balance sheet in the same way, and not just about the amounts received. It is equally true that when we open the budget, which we will do here in the House last year and this year, we will accept, we will see figures, I have quoted the 2016 budget figures, that the contribution to the EU budget will be around HUF 315 billion from all our taxes, from all of us. I don't even have to say it, because it has been said so many times that, for example, even last year, the budget included HUF 21 billion in the UK correction. Obviously, with the British leaving, this will cease, you could say, but it is very interesting that they managed to fight out such items, just as the payment for Austria, Denmark, the Netherlands and Sweden is HUF 2.4 billion. It may not seem like much, but it is also interesting that we still have to make these payments from the Hungarian budget. And why is that important? Everyone, every Hungarian citizen, pays more than HUF 30,000 a year to the EU budget. This is done with everyone's money, but the sources of input seem to be very much in the same direction or less enjoyed by the Hungarian taxpayers or at least most of them. You have quoted several times the statement made by German Commissioner Oettinger, on the opposition side. All I can see is that none of this is coming from you, and you have not been asked to do so in Brussels. Several details were quoted. I wrote to myself when he explained that what was given to Poland - this is true for Hungary and for the region - is coming back to Germany in large part; and the more important part is that from an economic point of view Germany is not a net contributor, but a net beneficiary. That's what we've been saying for a long time, but that's what Fidesz has always denied, by the way, most of the time when Jobbik said who the net contributor is. Why, did you say that Hungary is a net contributor to the EU? Is that what they said? [[On the signal of Nándor Csepreghy:]] At least that's what I didn't hear at the time. They always said we'd get more than we'd pay. That's what I've heard from you, but correct me then. By the way, if this is the case that Germany and the German EU Commissioner do not consider themselves to be a net contributor - as we have heard formally - to the EU budget, then the Eastern region and Hungary are obviously part of this area. Then, however, the whole EU balance sheet is once again more current than ever, because then we should figure out where we stand in this story. Mr Dömötör, State Secretary, said that I tried to write down precisely that about 80 percent of the money flows back to the German economy through different channels and said that we were actually even. I don't think we're even if 80 percent is flowing back, we might want to rethink that. Not to mention, not to mention the money that will be squandered and stolen, unfortunately. It is enough to think of the Tax Justice Network, which until a few years ago, not even to our day, that in Hungary about two and a half times the total government debt has been taken out in the offshore direction since the beginning of the 1990s, and this is still a cautious estimate. We are the 12th most lost country in the world. By the way, we are rejecting Ukraine, Turkey, Kazakhstan, and not in per capita exports, in skimmed assets, but in absolute terms. By the way, they put that on nearly 250 billion dollars. Since then, I think this number just grew. I also have to say here - I wrote down some figures for myself that it is important to say this again for the balance sheet of our accession to the EU - the GDP per capita of the V4 compared to the EU average in 2004 - I would like to list some figures: 78 per cent for the Czech Republic, 61 per cent for Hungary, so we were second, 57 per cent for Slovakia, 50 per cent for Poland. We started from here in 2004, and in 2015, the Czech Republic was 87 percent, obviously they made progress, but from 78 percent it was harder to achieve, they did; Slovakia was 77 percent, with significant 20 percent progress; Poland was 69 percent, 19 percent ahead; and Hungary was 68 percent, so that we became fast drives in the region, so that we were practically the second behind the Czech Republic. And if we compare who could increase their GDP by how much, I have to say that Hungary is also at the end of this line. That is why Hungarian people feel that their wages have not grown properly, and that is why they feel that we have fallen behind. So when you look at the numbers, you should not forget these macro numbers, because it is possible, Mrs. Secretary of State, that a lot of money is coming in on a continuous basis, only in many cases or on paper, because they flow out to the German economy and to the western economies, or what comes in, through long systems, through public procurements,, and only spend it at any price, will end up spending it with mentality. [[19.20]] In many cases, it is not even the Hungarian government who is responsible for what the EU is giving these funds for, so there is an accomplice, a wink to the Union, while we have not been able to significantly increase the added value of Hungarian production. Many have already said to me that unfortunately we have not made any progress in the labour market situation, and wages are increasingly falling apart, not catching up. So we should change these, and I very much hope that we can move forward, although the last three decades, in terms of the change of regime and the system of 15 years after our accession to the EU - not so much yet, but almost a decade and a half - have not shown that we have been able to move forward. That should change, Mr. Secretary, with these numbers, I think it's hard to argue. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-03-27-266	I give the floor to Secretary Nándor Csepreghy.
u2017-03-27-267	Mr President, Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to respond to a few things, and I agree with you in part. Not because my position would be so close to that of Jobbie, but because I think that he drew up Minister Lazarus' speech in June last year, in which he advanced this debate. Recall that the government was almost crucified because he said that Hungary's EU balance sheet should not be judged on the basis of the two figures, which is roughly HUF 3000-3500 billion for the 7+2 year period, and the proportion of the funds that can be drawn from the European cash register, as we are talking about falling customs revenue, falling tax-free capital injections and more. I find it interesting that it took an Oettinger declaration to do this so that Jobbik would essentially catch up with government communication on this issue, because it does not have to fight Brussels on the basis of statements. It is, for example, when we are discussing budgetary frameworks. In 2013, the question was whether there would be a development policy system in Hungary, which would once again allow large companies to take these funds out, for example, through public public investment, or a system where we would allow applicants to increase the share of the use of EU funds from 16 to 60 per cent. It's a very important rule. Or, for example, by pushing the entry criteria down in public procurements, we reduce the rate that Secretary Dömötör spoke about, the 80 percent return flow, which takes place through machine purchase, when a Hungarian small enterprise buys machinery from Germany, or by having a German company carry out the service that it is required to use during the development, or spends its resulting revenue on German exports and Hungarian imports. They can all be reduced if small actors have access to public procurement, public investment. There's a positive trend here. Mr Gúr mentioned the number of single-offer offers, which is a general problem throughout the region. But it is decreasing in Hungary, just by reducing the entry criteria. So I think that in these rules we can see how we can avoid a situation that we believe has created a completely imbalance in the. 7-13 development period. However, in the rhetoric of the great freedom fighter, it should also be borne in mind that there is a healthy level of cooperation between strong European economies and the Eastern Central European region. For no one can doubt that the drowning of the German economy, or, where appropriate, the receding of the German economy, would be as bad as the economic policy of the period 7-13, which has been dealt with in an absolute serene manner. So there must be some level of equilibrium between the two. I know the numbers you said in the GDP comparison. I would like to ask the Member to look at trends in the spirit of fairness. Over the last 3-4 years, the Hungarian economy has started to move significantly compared to the countries of the region. Indeed, the position held by Hungary as an absolute leader in 2002 was lost by 2010. From 2010 onwards, on the one hand, we had to reverse the growing trend of public debt, while the IMF basically hindered the idea that you knew in Parliament as a unorthodox economic policy, and as a result, we Hungary, who have conducted a different economic policy, have repaid our loans, and the countries that have worked on the basis of the IMF's mentorship or package of proposals, are now in an even bigger debt trap than before. But it is no coincidence that today in Hungary there are more than 600,000 people working in 2010. I know, that's what the community service program says. However, let us consider that 450 thousand out of 600,000 work on the primary labour market. If we asked you in 2010 whether we were going to take on the problem that we are facing today in the labour market, the question is not how we create new jobs, but how we fill up vacancies, with closed eyes, all national emotional parties would have signed. The figures are equally positive in terms of fiscal balance beyond government debt or in terms of employment and GDP growth. I agree with the trends that the Member has outlined. I also agree that the Eastern Central European region was nothing more than a secondary growth market for Western European companies during the 2004 EU enlargement period. They saw before 2004 that they could not grow on the world market, especially compared to the countries of Southeast Asia, and they needed a market isolated, which is why there was an enlargement of ten, and not an expansion of basically 3-4 in line with the original plans, and they had access to a market of 100 million. The question is whether this region can put aside the grievances under Article XX. From the 20th century, let us say, can be derived between the countries here and can it pursue an economic policy where common interest relations now become more important than settling these matters. If we can do this, we could indeed create a two-speed European Community, in which the Eastern Central European region can be a driving force for growth. So in terms of the time when equal wages will be between Hungary and Western Europe, the region of Eastern Central Europe and Western Europe, I do not think we can make any commitments in the foreseeable future. However, it is about whether or not we can be competitive in terms of standard of living that can be redeemed from one unit of wages. If this region really unites and articulates its political interests, not only in terms of economic cooperation, but together, for which we have seen excellent opportunities in V4 cooperation since 2011, for example, or in cooperation with V4+4, Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia and Slovenia, then this trend can be reversed. Then after 2020, there can be a cohesion policy in the European Community, which is not based on making these businesses comfortable between 2004 and 2020, as long as there are these so-called free money, and then German businesses eat up Hungarian businesses under market rules, but we can do so in the interest. Kossuth mentioned such things in the 19th century. In the second half of the 20th century, how to bring the states along the Danube into a united economic community. By organising this, the European Union can indeed create a first-line connection or acceleration band. In this, I think V4+4 cooperation is an excellent example. I am proud that this government was the one who basically started this in 2011. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-27-268	I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Becsó.
u2017-03-27-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In an international comparison, especially in relation to the Visegrád 4 it is worth examining Hungary's performance on the use of EU funds. When such an examination is carried out, we need to be aware that we are living in an era of the emergence of a new world order. This is reflected in the events of the period behind us, such as the Brexit, and there may be further changes in the important European elections ahead. I'm thinking of Germany or France. In such a situation, each country, including V4, must necessarily determine its own place and position in the emerging world order. In Hungary, growth exceeds the EU average, and although there are better performing countries in the region, the prospects for the coming years are very encouraging. Investment has a favourable interest environment, in essence no inflation is extremely low, public debt is falling, the country's international financial rating has substantially improved, unemployment is below 5%, exports are increasing, industry is developing. Hungary has not been in such a favourable position in the last two decades, which is a huge opportunity. Of course, there are weaknesses. Capital shortages are a serious problem, demographic conditions are also a major economic challenge, and the health situation needs to be improved. The labour force will be more expensive and the question is how Hungary can be present in the technological revolution. It is true of all Visegrád countries, including Hungary, that the use of EU funds today makes a significant contribution to sustainable economic growth and strengthening the economy. So it doesn't matter how we steward ourselves with the resources we have. The 2007-2013 development cycle has been successfully and effectively completed without loss of resources. However, in the 2014-2020 development period, we can move to a qualitatively new level, since we must focus not on saving resources, as between 2007 and 13 but on the correct use. [[19.30]] We also need to prepare for this development cycle, and this is definitely a new element that EU funds could disappear after 2020. This is why it was decided by the government to speed up the use, because we want to get ahead of our competitors, such as the Visegrád Four. If we take a snapshot now, there is nothing to be ashamed of in the Visegrád comparison. Although this has already been discussed here in the debate, but still, the father of knowledge, I would like to share some of the numbers. On the basis of the announced funding framework, Hungary is outstanding in relation to the V4s and is 93 percent in proportion to the available framework. These are end-February data, second place Czech Republic, then Poland and Slovakia. The requested support, again as a percentage of the available framework: Hungary is also performing excellently here, second place Czech Republic, then Poland and Slovakia. We also perform relatively well in terms of the subsidies contracted, there are 49 percent in Hungary, then Poland, Slovakia and the Czech Republic, and there is a great difference between Hungary and the other V4 countries, Hungary stands at 22 percent, Poland at 6 percent and the Czech Republic and Slovakia at 4-4 percent. Based on the comparison data, it can therefore be said that Hungary is committed not only to increasing the competitiveness of our country and the potential for economic growth at the level of words, but also to proving itself in the field of action. However, it is also an important priority to reduce territorial differences within our country. In the period 2007-13, it was also announced that disadvantaged counties, such as my own county, the county of Nógrád and the regions, would be caught up with the effective use of development resources, to create development poles, to dynamicise the economy, but this, given the per capita county support data, was not nearly successful. Although it was already possible after 2010 that one of the most disadvantaged counties of Hungary, Nógrád County, could finally be added to Hungary's development map, but in the planning period prior to the first development cycle, and then in the first four years of the 2007-2013 development cycle, we could only alleviate the lack of aid. However, in the period 2014-2020 there was a real paradigm shift, as we received special direct support for economic recovery and employment, business-friendly and population-reserving settlement development. In the language of the figures, this means that the town of Nógrád County received HUF 41 billion forints and Salgótarján forints of HUF 9.2 billion, which is the highest in terms of county and county town. To this end, Salgótarján has to be included in the resources delimited under the Programme. Modern Cities, as well as transport development, economic development, rural development, environmental and energy development, human development and public administration development, regional development opportunities and future aids to the county. These resources and special attention in our lives mean that the period 2014-2020 or, more specifically, the period 2014-2023 may be the period of catching up with the county of Nógrád. I hope you do. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-270	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Eszter Zsuzsanna Vitalyos.
u2017-03-27-271	Mr President, Dear House, Thank you very much for the floor. I would just like to answer Mr Becsó's speech with a few thoughts. During today's debate, I believe that many people have already said in several ways how well Hungary is in terms of its announced funding framework, both in the EU's Member States and in the V4. And that we are not the only ones who are saying this about ourselves, how well we are doing, let me quote to you a speech on the European Parliament's Regional Development Committee last week, where the future of cohesion policy has actually been discussed by officials of the European Parliament and of the European Commission. The European Commission itself said that Hungary is here, for example, as an example of the accusations of slow implementation, where a hundred percent of the allocated resources will be announced this year. So, in fact, we were mentioned as good examples as top students. I think it's a big weapon. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-272	I now give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity.
u2017-03-27-273	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It is a very important area for the use of EU funds, one area of culture and education, and I would like to talk about them and the things that I believe are not going best here. During the 2010-14 cycle, these sectors were hit by a very serious setback of hundreds of billions. The situation in education has improved, mainly thanks to teacher wage increases. The institutions still lack about 200 billion forints per year and about 50 billion forints from higher education, as we see it. The Fidesz-KDNP government would formally finance the development and modernisation of these systems from EU funds. If we no longer spent our domestic budget on this important competitiveness, for the purposes of the development of our human capital, at least the EU billions would be available. I speak in a conditional way because the resources are usually either used poorly or these resources are largely lost. It is no wonder that the government can present only a few point-like initiatives, a few examples of development or development. Overall, the education system has not improved since 2010, but not much since 1990, and this is also reflected in the results. Dear House, In recent years, it has been demonstrated that any expansion or development in Hungarian education can take place only through the use of EU funds. The Hungarian education policy regards these objectives and the improvement of the quality of Hungarian education as a kind of additional task, and it does not essentially sacrifice any HUF from Hungarian sources, the Hungarian budget. They say why spend it on renewal, the acquisition of new tools, the development of new curriculum, textbooks, the dissemination of new methods once EU funds are available. However, these EU funds represent only such a small proportion of all public education expenditure, and that is just the minor problem. The bigger problem is that the use of these resources is also extremely problematic. The educating demonstrations starting at the beginning of last year, the protests of the participants in education have not stopped since then because of these wasteful, inefficient, corruption-suspecting spendings, so this was one of the reasons for these movements. The fact that teachers have to teach meaningless and unnecessary teaching material from lousy experimental textbooks or that they have to tolerate the humiliation of the new system of self-assessment and supervision is all because the government has squandered EU sources of education reform. The Education Office, the Institute for Education and Research, Educatio Nonprofit Kft. He carried a lot of projects with a few real benefits and results. Even if it wasn't for teachers and students, someone was very good with the million-billion-dollar orders. I would like to list a few, and I am very sorry, and I hope that Secretary Schanda will also be found. For example, the Öveges program, a bridge to the work, a woman's chance, a National Talent Gate,... [[Dr. Attila Tilki: It's the same thing.]] Look familiar? Excuse me, Congressman, just because you said something. [[Dr. Attila Tilki: It'll be the same as lunch and breakfast.]] I think you know the Belt Program, you heard it, you just interrupted me, so I'd like to get back in line. So the National Talent Gate, the basic system of public education registration and study, the professional methodological foundation for complex, integrated youth policy developments, the Eötvös programme, the early childhood programme to prevent intimidation, the methodological support for Roma inclusion, public education in school, the further development and expansion of educational services and research networks, . Journey to choose a profession, these are just a few examples of the suspicious programs and applications we have been investigating in the past period. [[19.40]] Fake studies, translations copied from 20-year-old foreign textbooks and sold again in Hungary, the rabbit textbook is remembered by many; Opel Corsák, who was judged for 500 thousand forints a month, was rented for that and half a million forints a month; tens of millions of forints team builders, expensive office furniture and computer devices; once prepared and sold from several locations, and scissored from the Internet; otherwise barely used internet surfaces that compete with the prices of many millions of internet portals. And I could tell you for a long time that these are very diverse ways of draining EU money. Everything can and has been overpriced, from advice to asset acquisition to ancillary activity. A complex EU resource, I think, is not excessive in front of me by the lead speaker, has been installed on it. The situation is also tragic because our education and training system is very lagging behind in relation to foreign, Western and Northern European education systems. We would have a historical chance to use at least the resources from the Union for development and catching up. But it is not only because of corruption, if these resources were not stolen, it would probably not be possible to use them effectively, as it is simply a problem with the basic system that they want to develop. This is an outdated education system inherited at the time of the change of regime, and it does not really help to develop some new curriculum, textbook or methodology. Some new modern chemistry labs, some new training courses, some renovated classrooms may be important and useful progress on site, but it does not remedy the problems at the bottom of the system. But how can we renew the entire training system, transform the obsolete school structure, reform educator training, eliminate segregation? Of course, this could also be the subject of another parliamentary debate day. During today, I asked Mr Rétvári, State Secretary, a question about innovation. They are familiar with the application systems, they know that the congestion of innovation proposals has become known in Hungary, how long applicants wait for them, waiting for the results very often with their greatest legitimate outrage. And I also asked myself, as a question, that these innovation proposals very often go for operational purposes, quite simply to supplement the income of university teachers, to conferences, to travel, to acquire computers, that would not be the main aim of these innovation proposals, that should be ensured within the framework of their operation, and also to ensure that the knowledge base determines the direction of innovation rather than such a forced direction. And I think that with all of this, innovation takes a course that, in fact, exactly the resources that should be turned on it, they are going to work, they are being lived up by the system. Let me note that there have been a number of personal attacks here, which were said in the keynote speech, against my colleague Hadházy, these speeches, I think they are not justified because they could be asked back in the same way - Mr. Secretary of State has now arrived, I respectfully welcome the predecessor of Mr. State Secretary, the sudden departure of Tamás Köpeczi-Bócz from the EMMI in the summer, the removal from this office of State Secretary, beyond the reason that there are shortcomings in policy coordination, what is covered. I have just given a long list of projects and proposals that this office has considered eligible. So I think that you should not be so upset, Mr Secretary of State, when we talk about the fact that everything is not right here, that there is serious money missing here, I think that this fact may also point to the fact that everything is not completely in place here. Not to mention, let me get a little something for the Secretary of State, that Mr Hadházy owes him a seat as Secretary of State. [[Defiance.]] Thank you for your attention.
u2017-03-27-274	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Eszter Zsuzsanna Vitalyos.
u2017-03-27-275	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would just like to answer a few questions about project evaluation and research and development and innovation proposals. As has already been said several times today, the new State project evaluation system was actually set up last summer, with 2700 currently approved state tender evaluations. We call them state tender evaluators because there is only one condition for entitlement, as regards education or employment, that there should be a state relationship between the individual. In particular, it is, of course, an internship or a criminal record that is still necessary. Unfortunately, we are also aware that there are delays in GINOP and there are prolonged evaluations. We're trying to eliminate these as soon as possible and to catch up with the system itself. With regard to GINOP, I can tell you that the prototype, product, technology and service development design - this is GINOP 2.1.7. - more than 2,000 projects received. Here, unfortunately, we have encountered the fact that at first there were very few public project evaluation professionals with technical or other scientific qualifications who could have been involved in the evaluation, and we would certainly have liked to have avoided an evaluation of several tens or even hundreds of projects. But now, I think that the system has actually progressed well since it was set up, that there are ongoing evaluators in many areas of the topic, and that there are more and more evaluation colleagues who can decide precisely on such projects or issues, so to speak, which require special expertise. So I think that the government here is doing everything in its power to catch up with the evaluations themselves. In this scheme, there are also projects that have been devalued by the evaluation, but are going through the so-called quality assurance process, precisely in order to meet all the Commission's expectations that only the best projects will be supported. So thank you very much for the signal, we're working off these disadvantages. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-276	I now give the floor to Congressman László Földi.
u2017-03-27-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a little bit about the Central Hungary region, as the Central-Hungarian region, in particular the southern-south-eastern periphery of this region - the current district of Cegléd, Nagykátai district, Nagykőrös district - has not received much funding in recent years. At the same time, the resources that were managed to be received between 10-14 and then by the municipalities and private businesses and companies were obviously used in the best way. Here I have to mention the KEOP programme and the VEKOP programme, in which, if I mention only KEOP, in recent weeks, four settlements have received more than HUF 800 million in support of building energy renovation. These settlements are located in the district of Ceglédi and Nagykőrösi. I also have to say that during the period of 10-14, there were major investments, mainly from EU funds in the region, mainly canal investments, which amounted to billions of forints. And let me make a detour here, corruption has been said here quite a lot as an expression, and I will only note in parentheses that I was mayor for eight years, and I have been a Member of Parliament for eight years, and no one has come to me, either as mayor or as a congressman, that: you, listen, I will put a few million forints in your pocket, let me get the job. Nobody even told me who to give the job to. [[Dr. István Apáti: Congressman, we sincerely regret this.]] So I don't really know where these big corruption things are in these cases. I propose to those who accuse us of corruption, to press charges, to know that there is corruption, and then there will be no problem. [[19.50]] A few more words about wages, there's been a lot of talk about wages. I think that if we were able to raise wages here for teachers and law enforcement workers in many places, they had to create the economic basis and that EU funds for the creation of economic funds were obviously used by businesses, by economic operators who have managed to raise certain wages on the basis of their results. I would like to refer one more topic to my fellow Members, which may not even be mentioned here today, and this is the early development of children. In Hungary there are thousands of children who need such pedagogical services for the first five years of their life. In recent years, we have been able to provide for the early development of 8,000 of these delayed young children, which is obviously not small, but much more is needed. In the current cycle, about HUF 5.7 billion is available for such improvements, which, I think, is a huge step compared to previous years. I believe that today's debate on the allocation of EU funds will also convince opposition representatives that the money that comes into Hungary does, that EU funds will be put in the right place, that most of them will be used for economic recovery, and that the country's progress is being made, that the people living here will be well. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-278	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, informed me that the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, in the political debate, would renounce its further timeframe for the benefit of the Fidesz Group. I'll ask you to change the clock. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2017-03-27-279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wanted to answer to Congressman Ikotity, but now he's not in the room, but I still think it's important that he doesn't go unanswered. The congressman also... [[István Ikotity stands up from his notary seat and signals his presence. Dr. István Apáti pointing towards the pulpit: He's up there!]] Then here's the congressman. I'm glad. The congressman was not here when I spoke about it, and let us say once again that the LMP is now on its way to holding a press conference on what is not happening; I think they cannot be taken seriously after this. In an unpublished tender, in an unsubmitted tender, an unpaid tender is called out as a corruption suspect. What's this? This is bullshit, not corruption. Congressman! We must state that there are cases of corruption and there are political accusations; what you are doing is the political prosecution category. You are not fighting corruption, you are fighting the government, and by doing this, you are not hurting us the most, you are hurting Hungary: they are destroying public confidence, they are destroying the public mood of the country. Congressman! If you have any specific information, then don't press charges, file a complaint, and then the relevant authorities will investigate the case. It is possible to do this, but you do not undertake this, but instead you are doing tabloid politics, making unfounded accusations, and proving from week to week how uninformed you are and do not understand development policy. Congressman, this isn't gonna get us any further. This isn't gonna get us any further. If you have specific information, please report it, because it is okay for a politician, whether it is a opposition politician, to draw attention to errors for the development of Hungary, and otherwise make proposals to correct them, but that is not the case here. This is a question of why you wrongly accuse government background institutions on the basis of half-information, generalizations, and continue to destroy public confidence. With this, the LMP cannot build a credible policy, and this is not good for Hungary, and this is bad for the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-280	I now give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Legény.
u2017-03-27-281	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly pleased to have the floor after Secretary Schanda in the ordinary speech. You know, Mr. Secretary of State, and be absolutely far from me to lecture you, but in a normal democracy, and we don't claim that ours is a normal democracy, but the way it works is that opposition parties use their criticism. When you say that the opposition parties are attacking the Hungarian state system and Hungarian civil servants, that is not true. You have just said in your speech that opposition parties are destroying public confidence, but the opposition parties strongly claim that you are destroying public confidence, precisely in the corruption cases that we have mentioned. I would also like to focus on corruption, as our current item is on the use of EU funds for 2014-2020. My apologies for giving you another little historical look-out, this won't be the XV-XVI. It's going back to the century, it's only going back a few years. What we have seen in the field of construction is that, in a rather interesting way - and I would point out that, for example, we are talking about the order of 400 billion, for example - the Public Machine related to Lajos Simicska, this particular construction was the one called Közpép, which, by a certain date, for a certain day, which, if we were to add a historical outlook again, was compared to D-day, so until a certain date, it has won construction resources, construction investments, which were made by almost 99,9 percent of EU sources, so they would be specifically part of the investigation period. That he did this in a consortium, in a consortium where he had a minority part, or by receiving it directly, was variable. The legendary phrase from the film Witness is that our people are very resourceful, but we are aware that the Fidesz machine can be more ingenious. So, anyway, this particular company and group of companies and its consortia have won most of the public construction investments. Then, from this particular day, we find that it is very easy to switch to another horse in the evaluation, and this other horse is called "Lőrinc Csártár" who has the largest part of the current major construction investments. Again, it is the same, I might say, very ingenious fidesz solution, that there are times when you win it directly with one of your companies,......Lőrinc Cashier, sometimes you appear in a minority, in a consortium, but that's what they used to bring out so that you could at least skim off the money you need. Then, Mr Secretary of State and fellow Members, when the opposition talks about what corruption suspects you are seeing, what corruption suspects you are experiencing, we usually do not talk about the air, but we have concrete results, specific numbers, concrete projects, and, of course, we do our complaints by showing a law-abiding attitude. This could relate to virtually all opposition parties, but there is a small, small problem, and that is why I said how it would work in a normal democracy, but ours is not a normal democracy. And that is to say that these allegations, which you refer to abundantly, that we should do, if we see or experience such abuses, must be judged by the prosecution, by the prosecutor's office whose number one leader I am not accusing of political partiality, but let's say that this is not a big deal on my part, because in 1994, Fidesz was a candidate for Parliamentary Representative, so it is not possible to say that this is indeed a very, very evil thought. From now on, we can make any number of complaints, no matter how many cases we come up with, no matter how many cases we will find, no matter how many cases we will map where corruption is suspected not only of the story, but also of it from afar, we will not achieve results. Of course, you will always be able to say that you filed a complaint and that nothing came out of the complaint. Yes, only because the system itself is wrong, and the system itself is still wrong, which we spoke about in our previous debate with the Secretary of State. You say there are 2,700 people involved in the evaluation of applications. We are not accusing 2700 people, but Viktor Orbán himself, because he has built a system where it is possible, for example, that most of the building funds were then redirected from a group of companies to another group of companies by cutting hussars. [[20.00]] Now, here is the real problem, Mr. Secretary of State, and this is exactly what we are always pointing out, and it is precisely that, indeed, in our assessment, we say that even on objective terms, there is some kind of experience, and experience is a very, very important thing, that it is possible, for example, to get resources to a given group of companies, so we say that corruption is indeed a present thing. Yes, we believe that it is around the entire EU's resource use and that it is not only in the construction sector that we could set an example. I think one of the last few days, I'm not saying that he had the biggest press news, but I'm sure one of his major press reports was that the resourceful Fidesz machine has now solved the KLIK's 17 billion-dollar source problem by virtually having completed and done projects with KLIK, according to which exactly HUF 17 billion of EU funds were used to fill this budget hole within the CLIK budget. Then we also heard that various opposition actors filed a complaint with OLAF. I do not think that it will be resolved immediately here for the OLAF report, but the fact that we see here, too, the ingenious way in which the Fidesz machine works, as I said in my speech, can be seen in a lot of places. So we have a problem with the system overall, not with a small part of it, nor with the 2,700 people, because the work of the 2,700 people has to be recognised, I'm sure a lot of them are conscientiously doing their job, but in the system. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And yet the problems are encoded. Thank you very much, Mr President, and I apologize for the delay.
u2017-03-27-282	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2017-03-27-283	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman! I think that those who make false accusations destroy public confidence, so there is no debate; those who make false accusations destroy public confidence when you make false accusations, and then they destroy public confidence - it's that simple. As regards its specific question on the EU project KLIK, it shows how well our governance is working, it shows that, by the way, the previously implemented development tasks have been included in the EU accounting system in the context of an ex post retrospective project. This is about protecting Hungarian taxpayers' forints, despite the fact that you didn't publish the applications in time, didn't judge the applications in time, and didn't give them the resources they needed for public education. We have had to correct the mistake of socialist governance over the last few years, which is what retrospective projects are all about, which is also known throughout Europe. The fact that you don't know that, I don't know what to do. Basically, this was the right solution and it was a good solution, so that Fidesz-KDNP governance was able to correct the mistakes made by socialist-liberal governance. We're not making accusations. We're trying to make up for the mistakes you've made. We think it's called good governance, it's called good governance, so what you've just said, I prefer to take it as a compliment. I take it as a compliment that we protected the Hungarian taxpayers' forints, protected the Hungarian people's money and protected the Hungarian people from losing the money that was not written out in time because of your mistake. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-284	I now give the floor to Congressman István Tiba.
u2017-03-27-285	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to compare the period 2007-13 with the period 2014-20 in some areas. The allocation of Hungary's EU funds for the period 2007-13 was provided for in the New Hungary Development Plan approved by the European Commission in May 2007. The programme consisted of a total of €22.4 billion, including rural development grants, for the distribution of nearly HUF 8 000 billion. The programme, drawn up by the second Gyurcsány government, identified two main development objectives: employment expansion and the creation of conditions for lasting growth. To achieve this, it launched development programmes in 6 areas. Until July 2013, the National Development Agency, set up to coordinate development programmes, paid around HUF 4 000 billion of EU development resources, which meant spending nearly half of the available resources. The remainder could be successfully drawn and used thanks to the restructuring of the development policy institution system. This situation is well illustrated by the management of the EU's resources in the area of human resources, which has been declared a priority by socialist governments. To improve the infrastructure conditions of social infrastructure, such as education, health and social care, the New Hungary development plan is grouped with more than HUF 1400 billion through various operational programmes, including the operational programme for social infrastructure and regional operational programmes. Of this framework, zero were paid in 2007, 1 billion in 2008, 49 billion in 2009 and 156 billion in 2010 - including the post-government change period. So in 4 years, less than 15 percent of the then government was able to call off the framework for the infrastructure development of human space. But it was not only with the intensity of drawing funds that the New Hungary development plan had problems. As I mentioned, the programme has identified two main development objectives: employment expansion and the creation of conditions for sustained growth. Compared to this, the operational programme specifically designed for economic and business development, the operational programme for economic development, represented only 16% of the programme. This contributed to the failure to achieve the goal set out in the New Hungary Development Plan in the field of employment. According to macro-data, there was no meaningful increase in employment. In the first year of the period covered by the programme, the employment rate was 57.3% in 2007 and the activity rate was 61.9 percent. These indicators have only slightly improved as a result of the 7-year development programme. In 2013, the employment rate increased to 58.1 per cent and to 61.8 per cent in 2014 and the activity rate was 67 per cent in 2014. Of course, this is an increase compared to 2007, but the government's steps after 2010 have already been highlighted in this growth. The impact of the New Hungary development plan alone, according to the Economists' assessment, is considered to be extremely limited. This is confirmed by the further improvement in both indicators since 2014. The employment rate was 66 in 2016 and the activity rate was over 70 per cent. This is a great achievement, a great success, for which we should thank the Hungarian people. These experiences have played an important role in the government's plans to allocate nearly HUF 12 billion of funds to Hungary during the EU's development cycle 2014-2020 with other emphasis. Economic development is indeed the most important factor in the current period than before. While in the 2007-13 cycle, the New Hungary development plan has grouped 16 percent of this specific area, 60 percent are already targeting economic development during the 2014-20 cycle. Of this, the operational programme for economic development and innovation alone represents a 26 per cent share. In the new development cycle, the budget for direct economic development has doubled to over HUF 2660 billion, which aims to help domestic businesses, universities and research institutes. In addition to addressing economic development with different emphasis, the differences between the two periods are also illustrated by the fact that while EU funds have previously been allocated under 15 operational programmes, EU funds will be drawn and paid more concentratedly in the context of targeted planning under 9 operational programmes from 2014 onwards. In addition to simpler procedures, the real regional decentralisation of development programmes is a further step forward. [[20.10]] The principle of subsidiarity, which the European Union considers to be of particular importance, can thus be more pronounced, while central coordination ensures that the objectives originally laid down are maintained in the implementation of development programmes. While previously the most important municipal development programmes were coordinated by regional development agencies strongly separated from the municipal level, during the 2014-20 cycle the elected local political actors had a much stronger role through the involvement of county assemblies. Thus, the operational programme for territorial and urban development has been designed according to real local needs, not out of reality, in a limited manner consistent with local development goals. Hungary is facing great opportunities in the current period. Since 2010, thanks to the work of the Hungarian people, the country has been able to deliver many successes. In order for this work to continue successfully, it is essential to provide additional opportunities for the domestic business sector, the R &amp; D stakeholders, and to identify development areas together with those directly involved in the area. These objectives will all be met in the planning of the 2014-20 development period and will continue to define the use of EU funds. As a result, employment is increasing and the figures expressing the performance of the Hungarian economy are improving. In order for these successes to continue, Hungarian development policy must continue to be governed by the principles followed by the Government of Hungary since 2010 and based on which the use of resources for the period 2014-20 has been established. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-286	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi.
u2017-03-27-287	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, For the third time in the last year, we have been discussing the use of EU funds. This is a very good and very useful debate. I am also pleased that, for the third time in the ministerial exposé, it is time to assess what the real balance of our accession to the European Union is in terms of both indirect and direct impacts. I am very pleased that State Secretary Csepreghy has also returned to the Chamber, because I would have addressed my next sentence to him. For the most part, Mr Secretary of State has already stated that János Lázár is in a pioneering role here, or that he is a pioneer in the fact that he has brought in indirect effects in addition to the direct effects of the withdrawal of the EU balance sheets, thereby illuminating the complexity that the European Union balance sheet really shows. However, I would like to remind you, and I do not want to compete with this government who said it first or who drew attention to it first, but the Jobbik Hungary Movement has said this ten years ago. I myself held a press conference in April 2011 on the need to take into account indirect effects, costs and benefits in addition to direct effects in the EU balance sheet in order to determine what is really the balance of our accession to the European Union and to establish the strategy with which Hungary can finally start its course after 26 years and after more than ten years of membership of the European Union. For as long as we do not know what the use of EU cohesion money meant in Hungary, for example, and here we are stunning each other with different numbers and statistics, catching up is still waiting for us. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary already calculated in 2011 what it meant by the abolition of customs duties, the abandonment of investment promotion, the abandonment of market protection as an instrument, import liberalisation, deregulation and forced privatisation, before the European Union had a single share in the Hungarian budget. In order to finally enter the course of catching up here in Hungary, we need to be very honest about this. I am very sorry that Günther Oettinger's speech and his speech in the autumn, which he explained in his interview with Handelsblatt, required a few people in Hungary to get to their foreheads and say that, oh, my God, we are being tricked here. The European Union and the current political system-shifting elite of Hungary, the governments that have given each other the doorknob for the past 26 years, together under the flag of cohesion policy, have cheated Hungarian society and the entire Central and Eastern European society, because we believed that cohesion policy was in our interests and our catching up. However, this development policy is getting us further away from Hungary joining the Western European countries and catching up. This is a completely irresponsible kamikaze policy pursued here under the heading of economic policy by various governments, social and national governments over the last 26 years. The fact that European Union funds have obviously contributed to certain infrastructure improvements in some cases here, and this must be acknowledged, our country is beautiful, and we should be very happy about that. But every penny that does not flow into research and development, human capital, the mental and physical strength of the Hungarian workforce is all wasted money. Because it's the only expense that's gonna pay us in the long run. Everything else is just a beauty patch and a total waste of money. For example, my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy mentioned the example of Ireland many hours ago when this debate started. He mentioned that there are examples where cohesion policy, the same cohesion policy, has not led us to catch up in Hungary, has raised other countries from the third world to the forefront of the European Union. For example, Ireland, which in the 1970s, when it joined the European Union, was a poor house in Europe, only the Irish policy was able to unite Irish society and fix that there is a kind of objective in the use of money, there is a government policy, a development policy, and governments can come and go, but Ireland does not leave this policy. There was social cooperation and social support. But what did Ireland do? Ireland has identified some areas in which Ireland has a comparative advantage, a comparative advantage over all other countries in the world and has focused on these few strategic sectors. He has selected one or two industries, one or two services in which they want to be better than everyone else in the world, and he has focused every single development money, every single resource in these areas. In Hungary, we did not even have this debate on what we consider comparative advantages in Hungary, what we consider to be sectors in which Hungary could be better than every country in the world if adequate capital came from cohesion funds or from domestic sources. Ladies and gentlemen, Such is agriculture, the food industry, such as research and development, such as innovation, in which Hungary is leading, and which in Hungary could bring real progress, catching up and raising the standard of living to a higher level, not the economic policy that has actually ruined Hungary to a multitude of assembly plants and assembly plants in the last 26 years, where Hungary competes with cheap wages in close competition with other Central and Eastern European countries, and we have launched a bidding in a downward wage spiral. [[20.20]] And we are surprised that this leads nowhere but to the exodus of our young people, to their poverty at home, to foreign exchange lending and to the fragmentation of the entire country. This debate should be about a change in economic policy. First, a paradigm shift should be carried out in the field of economic policy, identifying the sectors that would give Hungary a comparative advantage and assigning the resources that could bring the hope of catching up to Hungary. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-27-288	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman István Ikotity for the remaining 47 seconds.
u2017-03-27-289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Now I have only one chance to answer the two-minute loop. Secretary of State Schanda, I think we are not making false accusations. When he wasn't in the room, in my earlier speech, I gave a long list of projects where there are many mistakes like Opel Corsák, rabbit textbooks, rented for 500 thousand forints a month, and I could list and classify them infinitely. They'll hold up. How much punishment anyone has gotten from this, you know it's nothing. We're not making false accusations. And the allegations that we are destroying the state of the country, that we are constantly destroying public confidence, that we are hurting the country, statements that I think are not worthy of a secretary of state, and that there are the Fists of the Party, Mr Csepreghy Secretary of State, Mr Dömötör Secretary of State, István Hollik, my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh. Mr. Secretary, don't take their place, it's thin ice, they'll be jealous of you. Thank you.
u2017-03-27-290	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Riz.
u2017-03-27-291	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have listened with interest to my fellow Members to their comments on the P-debate in the title. The main issue was how Hungary would use EU funds. Most of the speakers in my reading were less professional, more emotional, or, I think, in an inappropriate way to the dignity of Parliament, to react to today's events. There was looting, robbing, there was another figure of speech, which doesn't reflect professionalism, but rather anger. Or there is a strange ringing of this thing: just from the party whose representative is no longer in there, there is a strange feeling - as we say - of the reproof when one of the previous prime ministers said that the coalition partner is full of corruption issues; perhaps we still remember this ominous sentence. Or we also remember the techniques that the foreign multinational company must use to get back to the foundations of the two parties mentioned, the resources that have been saved from the projects for them. I think it was a strange, refreshing colour for me, the comment by Mr Gyöngyösi, which I considered to be a professional, along with your vehemence. He has said all that has greatly contributed to the dignity of today. As Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Representative and County Development Commissioner, I have some insight into the county's development processes. We are talking about one of the counties that has submitted one of the most resource demands in recent years and is trying to call down the possibility of one of the most resources. Why? With intent to settle. In order for people who live in one of the largest counties - because we are talking about the second largest county in the country - to find their own calculation in its various regions and not to be forced to migrate, and the industry that operates locally should try to catch up with quality expectations that can meet many of the conditions and needs that are partly EU and partly non-EU. Well, I can tell you this, and I'm proud to say that county development funds have reached the target in about three areas that have come to a good place, and I believe that by their abundance they have helped the county to catch up slow and slow. One of these is the operational programme for economic development and innovation, which has made it possible for companies operating in the Moonyard of the University of Miskolc to develop new technologies, opportunities and the integration of industrial innovation that can now produce suitable suppliers for large companies that define the characteristics of the industrial zones or industrial axis of the county. A part of agriculture has also been able to catch up, as opening up funds - as we have talked here today about an operational programme for rural development, which we all know is still ahead of us in this room, this has been said today - will help agriculture in the county to be able to again in part in its old light, not to say to shine, but at least to try to play a role in creating supply systems in the neighbourhood of the city or beyond. Several people also told me where this rush to the government is, why you're rushing to allocate resources. It lives within us, at least in multicycle Members, the memory that Hungary faced the risk of loss of resources in the last period between 2007-14, precisely because it was not tied down in time, the source was not posted in time, or the measure for which it was possible to apply was not published in time. The government is now trying to avoid this, so it has set itself a tight deadline to publish resources, to receive funds, and obviously because of the prolonged technical difficulties - also referred to by the Secretary of State - precisely the number and limited number of critics, for example, in the case of TOPs, where Regulation 272 regulates precisely who can take part in the criticism of the state apparatus. Obviously, it is the technical area that is a bottlenecks in the criticism of resources. So, knowing our own difficulties, it is necessary to press the deployment of resources in time so that, even in the event of a possible slip, we can still have plenty of time to use the resources in time and get to those who can make a smart, well-used contribution to the growth of domestic GDP. For my part, this is what I was going to say as a thought, and I would have tried to add these to the content marks in the first place. I would encourage all those involved in such future debate days to try to exclude anger from the room and, if possible, use reason to contribute to the joint task of making good use and spending thousands of billion forints for the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-03-27-292	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs.
u2017-03-27-293	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. A great deal has been said in connection with the utilisation of EU funds in the previous period of the debate. That is why I am pleased that it came out just as I was able to get the floor after Gábor Riz, so that I can talk about, in connection with one of the most symbolic proposals, the MaNDA project, how unfortunately the funding already spent by the Fidesz government has not been used well. Just to give you a sense of reason, my honourable fellow Member: you cannot show a number of visitors, there is virtually no way that this project, the previously planned tasks, such as the film archive or the digital centre will not be able to place you there. Actually, we're talking about a large exhibition hall completely unused and meaningless. So when the Minister has also talked about how important it is to reduce territorial differences and to make use of money in this sense, we must say that it is an absolute negative counter-example of the MaNDA project you have built, which is now looking for its future owner, because you know that this is unsustainable for you. But I could say the same when I talk about the difficulties of territorial settlement, including Salgótarján. The example of Salgótarján has been mentioned several times, as has the Secretary of State, as well as the Minister and the regional representative. It's amazing that one of the biggest losers in the system change gets the least money in the TOP sources. So we can't really talk about social justice and solidarity here, because the goal is not exactly what you so much like to stress. However, the point is that these tender funds, which were spent earlier in ROP, and now in TOP, in general in regional development programmes, make local economies self-sustaining, so that later on, as has already been said, if Hungary does not get the same funding as now after 2020, it should not be a problem that there are no muscular and powerful businesses, muscular and powerful municipalities that can solve local tasks. Mr. Minister spoke about the importance of Hungarian creativity, and in this connection he mentioned that there were still calls for proposals for certain sources at the end of 2015. In Hungarian, part of the money that could be spent in the 2007-2013 funding cycle was written in autumn 2015 and could then be accounted for. [[20.30]] Yes, I myself saw the construction of a cultural house, with which, since it was declared ready and accounted for on 15 December 2015, even though it was still standing up, the windows were not installed, they were doing the external insulation, but the investor, more specifically the contractor, had already announced that the final invoice could be submitted to the MÁK, in Hungarian, so that the project could be considered closed. I do not think that this should be mentioned as part of Hungarian creativity, but rather as part of fraud that OLAF should investigate. Minister also said that, unfortunately, the EU is deciding a lot of things, and we have little room for manoeuvre, for example, in the sense of what priorities we can set out for each operational programme, what tasks we can apply for. On the other hand, it is precisely the European Union that formulates subsidiarity as a basic principle, in Hungarian, the importance of local decisions. Rather, the problem is, in my view, that there is not a kind of professionalism, but that party loyalty is the main indication when assessing the specific programmes. And now I'm going to give you a concrete example of two neighbouring settlements: Monor and Monorierdő. Monor, we know that one of the current Secretary of State was the mayor, and he won so much money from the TOP contest, he doesn't even know with a little exaggeration what to spend it on. And next to him, Monorierdő couldn't get anything, because it's a better settlement. But not so much that he couldn't get a penny from domestic sources. In the same way, they will try to take part in all applications without any delay, despite the fact that one is an opposition settlement close to the government and the other is a so-called opposition settlement, so there are such differences in the assessment. But believe me, there are the same problems, the same difficulties in every respect. I'm sorry, I was wrong to say this because obviously we're not talking about TOP resources here, above all KEHOP, VEKOP, because it's a central region. But in any case, there are incredible differences between the two settlements in terms of the resources won. I would like to mention one more thing in any case. Minister also said that, in connection with the reception of funds, SMEs, according to a study that has been published on a government website today, so SMEs have limited reception capacity, whereas multinationals have benefited from the previous budget cycle. Unfortunately, we must immediately add that the offshore companies are still. When you say that we can only mention four large oligarchs who have received significant amounts of money, on the other hand, there were a lot more SMEs that could benefit from the application money for operational programmes, we have to say that there are, in fact, the Landlords, and there are vassals compared to that. And there are offshore companies in both teams, and from one side, but from the other side, unfortunately, there was a very nice amount of money coming out of Hungary. One more sentence about ideologically-driven money is allowed for me. He said, Minister, that there is no free money, and that every penny the European Union gives is subject to a certain type of ideology. Well, then, please, let's stop here for a sentence and see how you spent the Gypsy integration from ROP. Because no one tells me that the European Union demands that there should be no maintenance period, for example in the case of complex settlement programmes, and that you do not require it. If we leave the money free and then there's no control after that, then let's not be surprised if these money isn't useful. And then you don't have to say that these are ideologically-driven money coming from the European Union, and they're not making good use of it if we don't set up a proper control system for it ourselves. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-27-294	Gábor Riz indicated his two-minute comment.
u2017-03-27-295	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Just for the record, let me tell you that you're wrong. Since the opening of the Hungarian National Digital Archive, it was last summer, until the end of autumn it can present more than 8 thousand visitors and paying visitors. They may not have shown it, but believe me, they have. The other is that since then it has been full of programs, numerous family events, urban events, cultural events. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: Scandalous!]] Congresswoman, I live there, and you visit at most, let's leave it at that. Those two buildings, which are industrial heritage-protected, have been proposed for an international award, which is perhaps also your profession somewhat, and you know that if something is proposed for an international architect's prize, it has some basis. So there was a safekeeping. As far as the number of employees is concerned, I would like to make it clear to you that the recruitment process is at two paces. The first beat's already done. So I'd just like to make it clear that you should come, and I'll lead you through both institutions. Believe me, you'll see a lot of things differently than the interpretation of the mayor who started his cycle by wanting a windmill, thermal water, the investors were already knocking on the city door, waiting for him to get into the chair, and who hadn't shown up since. Don't believe him, believe me. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-296	I now give the floor to Congressman Dénes Pigeon.
u2017-03-27-297	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, During the sixth hour of the debate, I will try to shorten the part of the presentation of the figures that I have put before me as one of the tasks. My fellow Members, Gábor Bányai and István Tiba, have already mentioned the number progress reports that I do not wish to repeat. However, I would like to give an example of the good examples, and then I would like to take an example from Fejér County and the 4th constituency of Fejér County, and I would like to say a few words about the potential of synergies for mutual cooperation; but I promise that I will not use 76 minutes within the right time frame, so 76 minutes. The tasks of this year and the statistical rapid report that I would like to start with, so in the light of the figures, let us talk about how the rest of the EU's development resources will develop this year. The full use of resources is necessary to make all development resources available to applicants. For this reason, the Government will define the full publication of resources as its development policy objective for 2017. For the 2014-2020 programmes, 97 percent of the resources were announced by 20 March 2017. more than HUF 8692 billion. Following the advertisement, it is necessary to make a commitment as soon as possible on the sources that have been published. For more than half of the 2014-2020 programmes, 53 percent, for some HUF 4708 billion, the commitment has already been made, so there are valid commitments. Therefore, as a development policy objective for 2017 the government determines that the level of commitment in each programme reaches 85 per cent by the end of 2017. In order to give priority to EU funds for economic growth in 2017, it is also necessary to further increase payment targets. Therefore, the government defines the payment of HUF 2700 billion of aid to applicants as a development policy objective in 2017. Until March 20, 2017, 21 percent of the funds were paid to beneficiaries and suppliers, amounting to HUF 1896 billion. If the 2017 target is met, the payments will be at 47 percent. I would not highlight in detail the numerical data typical of the development of advertisements, I think that the 8692.4 pieces are also here. a call for information that may be relevant in this context. [[20.40]] In the rest of my comment, I would like to mention what is to be highlighted in the calls I have made so far, and I could describe it as the most popular calls. These are the calls that have been the most sought-after among the applicants to take this approach. In the GINOP constructions, the applications found in this category are crucial, and I think that a very important stage in this recent year is the opening of the most popular tender for companies from 17 February 2017, perhaps we could say that it is a hit competition, but we would consider it more serious. This is GINOP 1-2-3, with a long end, support for capacity-enhancing investments by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, number 16, in the context of combined credit products. Madam Secretary, she is no longer here, but I would like to join her sentence when Secretary of State Eszter Vitalyos said that the objective for which they are applying should be sustainable and that proposal should create jobs. I fully agree with him, and I think that this proposal, which I have highlighted in the most popular calls, would aim to grant a loan with 10% self-reliance, in addition to adding a final grant, in the form of grants of between HUF 5 and HUF 50 million. In this construction there is a very serious framework, I have to say that the programme has an outstanding budget of HUF 112.5 billion, i.e. between 2500 and 5000 applicants. This is where SMEs are targeted, and I think that this is the area, and I highlighted it from the current, recent programmes, because the acquisition of assets, the replacement of assets, the replacement of buildings, the raising of buildings and the raising of halls are certainly important, since this was not entirely so effective in the past, but in the period 2007-14 it was the period of development of sites. The reason why I mention it is that, in my own constituency, there are characteristics among regional specs that have evolved in a single constituency. I have taken the GINOP programme as an example of why it strengthens synergies, because small and medium-sized enterprises that have not been able to develop over the past period because they did not have sufficient resources after the end of the NHP framework and construction, I think that the aforementioned GINOP resource is a very serious support for the enterprises with which we aim... - the regional assembly plants are not just a major plant, a car factory, we can encourage the supply sector with this support from the SME sector, and this will create new jobs in the SME sector. Even with regard to the constituency, I think that, thanks to the right and well-thought-out development policy, both TOP and rural development resources, including what is important for all settlements, the LEADER programmes will be sufficiently useful. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-298	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Ander Balázs.
u2017-03-27-299	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In this Chamber, it would be a big mistake if a minister did not tell the truth and reality, said János Lazarus in his ministerial exposé several hours ago. As a member of the field, I would obviously like to apply this to myself, even if the view of the pro-government side, if any, will not be the same as that which I would otherwise have to represent here from the opposition bench. I would like to comment on transport development matters in a few minutes, because in a country - yes, dear Secretary of State Homolya, we will be talking about transport development - in this country, where the import-export rate measured for GDP exceeds 60%, and which is situated at the intersection of the Magistral axes, pan-European Corridors, Helsinki corridors, it must be said that transport, transport policy, is of enormous relevance. This would predestin our country, by the way, to become a logistics centre for Europe or at least Central Europe, through which goods not only flow through, but also by pinching the good places of value chains, by catching them, we could join in production with great added value, creating a normal job for people and seducing, say, young people exiled to the West. Instead, we see that improvements often lack a systemic approach, since they are island-like. Although it is acknowledged on the pro-government side that EU funds are not gift money, this has been discussed several times, yet we find that sometimes it is treated as a personal gift from Brussels, which has only one purpose for all the oligarchs close to the government to be fed. There are two things we can say about infrastructure development. At the end of the project, Viktor Orbán's current friend will win, and the investment will be significantly overpriced. But let's just say it from the pro-government side, or the tellers could say it, because the more expensive it is, the more it gets into the pockets, and the subjects will make their money out of national cooperation. Prices, they say, are quite realistic, and the opposition is the villain when the road and railway constructions are talking about the massive load of lumps, the drilling of huge chains, the overpriced without draining gigantic moors. That's what we're saying. That's what we object to. Although an amount of around HUF 2800 billion is intended for transport development, together with domestic resources, during the cycle ending in 2020, it should also be noted that the task would require even more. Only a few figures: from 7700 kilometers of our rail network, we have increased speeds of less than 200 kilometers, and here we should not be thinking of some wind speed of TGV or sinkansene, but just 140 km/h. At 3,400 kilometers, even 30 percent of the 2,800 kilometers that fit the core network in Europe, the speed limit is constant. The state of the regional sidelines, which will form the next half of the entire network, is tragic. The railway infrastructure has grown very old, and although I have been looking at it for three years, I have not yet received a sound answer to the question of where the long-distance concept of a thousand lines of land development beyond the competence of the MÁV - perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to put a few sentences on this; unless we consider leaving to rot as a kind of concept. On the one hand, this is what you see, that is a lack of resources, on the other hand, that there is money for what you want, or for who you want it to be. I am setting an example from my narrower Patria, say, South Transdanubia, while the fate of line 41, i.e. the Kaposvár-Gyékényes section is also in question, that while the journey between Budapest and Pécs between the 2.5 hours of 2003 has now deteriorated to two hours and 55 minutes, while I am asking whether the government is willing to buy back from the Austrian company a part of the Socialists' sales of MÁV-Cargo, whether there will be another Hungarian state freight transport, and in their response on 30 November 2016, one and a half lines say that this is not currently on the agenda. At the same time, the 2nd line was renovated from a gold price of HUF 1.5 billion a kilometer, this is the Budapest-Esztergom section, which has rightly become the veterinary horse of railway reconstruction investments due to the many scandals surrounding the project. Here, for example, every one-minute time improvement cost HUF 10 billion, of course, no responsibility here. This is certainly not related to the fact that the tender winner Strabag worked with Papa Szijjártó earlier. [[20.50]] There is no problem for anyone other than the opposition that the cost of the railway electricity between Szombathely-Zalasentiván, previously estimated by GYSEV for a USD 9.5 billion, has already increased to over 14 billion. Here it is also possible that the southern Balaton railway development and the renovation of the Kaposvár-Fonyód section were completed by HUF 26 billion. It's probably just a coincidence that Lőrinc's company joined this project. A few words should also be said about the road network. While the rural side road network is in critical condition in many places, the main roads such as South Somogy and South Baranya are also in dire condition. To one of my questions the other day, Secretary General Fónagy promised Somogy only 70 kilometers of renovation by 2020, with 1700 kilometers of road, even though this would be the year. Of course, there is no such source, it could be said, but on the other hand, we can see that the Public Procurement Decision Committee has failed the Public Machine and Italian Itinera, which, by the way, has to be said that it manages 1500 kilometres of motorways in Italy, 18 percent of the network there, so it has failed their 25 billion forints cheaper offer. They promised to get the 26-27 kilometers of motorways out of the M4 out of 58 billion forints, but the 50 percent more expensive offer from the gas company in the Highway was won. In the end, we must ask how such a cheap offer could be made by Viktor Orbán's company, which is deemed to be disgraced. Not that he didn't have to count, say, the money to be distributed back to politics? Thank you for your attention, and I look forward to your answers. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-27-300	I give the floor to Secretary Robert Homolya.
u2017-03-27-301	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I think everything is relative. Here, too, in the Member's speech, I think that some elements can be removed from the Hungarian road network of about 30 thousand kilometres or from the railway network of 7,000 kilometres, and, of course, it can be said that it must be improved or not in good condition. Unfortunately, it is not in the right condition, the previous governments have allowed Hungarian transport to be put in such a position. If we are talking about the 2014-20 development period - it is supposed to be about today's debate - then yes, it can be said that unfortunately there were no sectoral strategies in the previous period 2007-13. If you look at the payments made by the then government during that period or from the beginning of the period in 3-4 years and what project set of projects it was able to decide on, then you can say that it was not a national strategy concept or a development concept, because improvements were made potentially. I think that it is a very poor view or viewpoint that now because, in the opposite way, the current government is implementing these developments quickly and quickly, along a pre-set strategy, and so it is not possible to say any wrong words for the current government. If we are talking about transport improvements, it is true that in the last 20 years, we can say that, from the change of regime, no government has had a comprehensive transport strategy until now. We need to look at recent government decisions. The government has now set a development period and development target for a large number of developments until 2022. If we look at how much we spend on road development and how much development we are making, it can be said that in Hungary's modern history, there was no such degree of transport development. If we are talking only numbers, it can be said that about HUF 2470-2480 billion is available for road development, half of which is EU funding. The Hungarian government now has a comprehensive transport concept, and has set two important priorities for road development. One is to attach all county seats to the Hungarian motorway network. It is interesting that no one has said this so far, and this is the real territorial development and development of settlements, to give every region the opportunity to be accessible, mobile, accessible to both tourism and economic development. This government has decided to do so, has added resources and is implementing these developments. By 2022, all county seats will be available on the motorway network. The other is such an important priority, and I would like to add to Mr President's speech: Hungary is in a very favourable position and we are a transit country. Indeed, many international routes go through Hungary. Therefore, the government's other road development priority was to take our existing motorways to the border, connect these motorways and motorways to the international transport network. We have a lot of these improvements. I'm thinking of M1, M15, M70, we're taking the M30 highway to Miskolc, Tornyosnémeti, Košice, we're taking the M3 motorway, we're taking M35-M4 to Romania, and we're taking the M6 highway to Croatia. It was this government that will connect all motorways with neighbouring countries by 2022. I think that there has been no such development. The European Union's development resources are obviously helping in this, but fortunately Hungary and the Hungarian budget are in a position to add double the amount of this money to this development. If we are talking about a rail network, I think that we should not only talk about the rail network, but also about what means and in what form passenger and passenger services will be implemented. Approximately 140 million people travel by train every year and 440 by bus. We need to look at how the current travel patterns are developing, and I think that it is not possible to look unilaterally at the need to develop the railway, and in any case to improve when there is no passenger on it. You can say that the change in the number of passengers over the last 10 to 15 years, I think it's stagnated. We have a lot of improvements - and especially on suburban railway lines - where this trend has stopped or, where appropriate, is growing. By the way, the number of passengers on the Esztergom or even Vác railway mentioned by you is increasing exponentially as a result of the development of those networks and, by the way, the rolling stock has also been replaced. Where do we make these improvements? Since our country is large and our road network is large, I say that it is possible to seize a place where, if necessary, there will be no development, but again, the government is doing both road and rail development on the basis of a pre-arranged national transport strategy adopted in 2014 and will implement it by 2022. I think that such a transparent and open development plan as that which is now in transport was not in Hungary, because in a government resolution there is all the improvements that the government is implementing. Behind it is the source, and behind it is the time interval to be executed. You took a few projects out and mentioned the price level of these projects. I think that if someone is excluded from public procurement, the Hungarian Parliament may not be the constitutional place to seek redress in this respect. The Public Procurement Arbitration Committee and the Hungarian court will be able to decide who has a bid and who has a valid or invalid tender in a given public procurement. This word "overpriced" has been said a lot lately. Do we understand overpriced by what, Congressman? After all, we do have such targets that determine how much a development costs, but these were indicated in 2013-14, when we did not have plans, we did not have a building permit or export plans, and we determined on the basis of a budget how much this development could be made. There may be differences compared to this, but we ignore the fact that only in recent years within the sector, only within the construction sector, 30% wage increases have been made for all construction companies. On the one hand, it is possible to take advantage of the fact that there is a price increase, but there is a price increase everywhere, not only in the case of public projects, but also in the case of investments carried out under market conditions on a private market. In summary, Hungary had about 1,500 kilometres of motorways in 2010, and now the government is building 900 kilometers, the ratio means that we are building about half of it in six years for the expressway network. [[21.00]] With regard to rail, we will renovate hundreds of kilometres of railway roads, and indeed many so-called slow signs limit the process of rail transport. We must not ignore the fact that many other requirements have to be met by joining the European Union, including train control systems, which have not been in the railway operation so far, but we have to implement them for hundreds of billions of forints. Of course, the goal is to eliminate these slow signals as soon as possible on both suburban and main main lines. To do this, you need to install a modern telecommunications system for the main lines, this GSM-R 1 and GSM-R 2 system, and based on these, install a train control system called ETCS 2 system next to each line. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] This will not be possible in a one or two year development period, but we hope that our trains will be able to travel on the main lines in 2022 with a 160 sign. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-302	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next announced speaker was Mr Sándor Bodó, Member Fidesz.
u2017-03-27-303	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, If a person or even a community is going to do a great job, then it is perfectly understandable that he sometimes stops for a moment, makes an assessment of the situation, does a position. Well, Hungary, obviously our community, when it thinks about EU funds and progresses in this activity, is also right to hold such an assessment and position. We are, by the way, beyond a very important station in relation to European Union funds, because I think there is no individual or social enterprise in Hungary today who, let's say, would not have been familiar with the opportunities available in this cycle. Here, the government, the municipality and many other economic operators have done a great deal of work, but as I stressed above, I think that anyone who now wants to develop from EU funds can pretty much shoot up what and how he wants to apply for it. The comparison between the previous and the current EU cycle can and should be part of such a position and the difference seems clear. In the previous EU cycle, the main role was infrastructure developments, while economic recovery is clearly the main role in the current cycle. The fact that infrastructure developments dominated during the previous period, I believe that it is understandable in full, and obviously not all the tasks in this area are ready, there is also scope for such improvements in this cycle. However, it is quite clear, even because of the large number of applicants who have applied for economic recovery in the previous period - I mean those who have applied for economic recovery - that this area should be given much more space in this cycle. Not by a few percent, but by the magnitude of its quadruple as it was in the previous period. Of course, economic recovery has a flagship in this cycle, and this is an operational programme known as the GINOP fantasy, which deserves to be given its full name: an operational programme for economic development and innovation. It's a little professional that we often use only this abbreviation, but if we look behind it, I think it's much simpler and understandable what this category contains. Well, how does GINOP look? The payment plan was 100 percent in 2016 and the commitment was 118 percent, but what is even more interesting is that until March 20, 2017, the amount of aid requested was HUF 2480 billion. This is definitely a very large figure. It is worth talking about what are the most popular categories of applications, what are your favorites in GINOP. Prototyping, product, technology and service development: number of applications submitted 2638. Support for capacity-building investments by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises: 1872 applications. Internship program, support for starters: 1680 applications. Increase in production capacity of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises: 1136 applications have been received. Supporting R &amp; D activities of companies: 1103 applications. I think that this line could be continued, because there is a lot of interest in other applications as well. Perhaps among the most popular ones it is worth re-reciting the call words: small, medium-sized enterprises, young entrepreneurs, research and development, i.e. obviously the main direction can be clearly defined. It exists because there must also exist, in view of the future, a facility where, in addition to grants, preferential credit coverage is available. I think that this is still a relatively new design for applicants, but it is certainly forward-looking for the future, and it must also be known, and, by the way, there is an example in our constituency, there is reception skills, and the applicants welcome this opportunity. Of course, the nature of businesses, the economic environment, depends to a large extent on which category of applications is available, which is often customised for individuals and regions. To sum up, in the economic recovery category, we are well placed on a pro rata basis in terms of the use of resources, with a variety of individual needs, and the request made by businesses to obtain funding as quickly and as easily as possible, it is worth appreciating, but of course, it must also be taken into account that legality and regularity are above all else. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-304	Thank you, Congressman Bodo. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Balázs Rákossy.
u2017-03-27-305	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for bringing up the operational programme for economic development and innovation, as we commonly call GINOP among ourselves, because, as has been said several times today, one of the government's main challenges in terms of the use of development resources is the development of the economy, the improvement of the country's competitiveness and the competitiveness of businesses in the country. In this respect, we cannot ignore the operational programme for economic development and innovation, even because of the fact that from the HUF 12 000 billion available to us, as has been said here, it also includes area land subsidies, but it represents approximately 30 percent of the EUR 9 billion budget for cohesion funds. It is also important from the point of view that it is part of the 60 per cent economic development resource that the Hungarian government will use with a rock solid decision to develop the economy. So, besides TOP and VEKOP, as you said, GINOP is one of the flagships of economic development. It is also important and important to talk about GINOP because, given the size and complexity of GINOP, Hungary's largest operational programme is not only one of the ten operational programmes, but it can also be said that the largest and most complex operational programme of the whole European Union has a tender amount of approximately EUR 9 billion. In Hungary, this is the operational programme which includes economic development directions related to economic development. It is enough to mention only small and medium-sized enterprises, energy development, research and development and innovation, energy, infocommunication, tourism and the development of labour and employment. So the eight directions in which the operational programme for economic development and innovation allows grants in the form of tenders include the development of these areas. With regard to SMEs, we would like to see as many competitive and exporting SMEs as possible in Hungary. In the field of employment, we would like to take further steps in the coming years, bring unemployment to the lowest possible rate, and increase employment levels. In the fields of energy, infocommunication and tourism, we have identified various indicators with the European Commission, which aim to achieve this HUF 2700 billion. We would like to support more than 12 490 Hungarian SMEs from the available HUF 490 billion. [[21.10]] Within the framework of research, technology and innovation, we would like to encourage more than 3,800 companies to develop innovatively from the available HUF 520 billion. In the field of info technologies, we would like to introduce 30 megabit/second bandwidth in over a million households over the next few years from the 140 billion HUF available. In the field of energy, we want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by more than 342 500 tonnes per year, and we want to reduce energy consumption by some 88 million 424 thousand kilowatts per year. In the framework of employment, we wish to involve 142 thousand people in our programmes to be implemented. Within the framework of a competitive workforce, we will spend 135 billion forints on more than 450,000 people participating in the projects to be funded by the operational programme, and 110 billion forints in tourism will be used efficiently and transparently. It is very important that we commit these huge sums to these strategically important areas with a professional basis. One of the safeguards for this is the so-called policy responsible issue. So, unlike the previous programming period, we have linked the strategy creation and the professional basis for the proposals, thus achieving, and thus achieving that the proposals focus on areas that are present and present in the Hungarian economy. In addition, it creates predictability of the institutional system and thus contributes to the transparent use of GINOP for HUF 2700 billion by introducing the annual development framework, which allows applicants to know in advance what tenders will be issued on a quarterly basis. In addition, I think it is important to mention that the resources available under the GINOP for research and development innovation purposes are more than twice as large as in the previous cycle, and if we add that there is an additional HUF 500 billion available from the budget, it can be said that we spend more than HUF 1200 billion on R &amp; D innovation in the period up to 2020. In this way, we want to achieve the EU strategic objective that we have undertaken by the government, to devote 1.8 per cent of GDP to R &amp; D innovation, and this is part of the long-term Hungarian strategic plan to increase this level to 3 per cent by 2030. It is very important in the framework of GINOP that applications are launched along a government industrial development strategy, this Irinyi Plan, which sets out in detail the areas that we want to strengthen over the coming years, and an important instrument for which EU funds are available. In addition, it is important to mention what has been said above that, in the period after 2021, support policy and cohesion policy are likely to be transformed, and financial instruments will be the main focus in this context. We are already preparing for this period, within the current GINOP funds, we use a significant amount of money, more than HUF 700 billion, in the framework of so-called financial instruments, where the population, people can receive support through preferential loans and government guarantees. As you have said, Mr President, we are holding the timetable that we have set up, and by mid-March this month, there have been more than 80 calls in the GINOP, and by the end of this week we will be able to create the opportunity to write out the entire source. GINOP has so far received more than 16,000 aid applications. Experience from the previous period shows that we can expect more than 40,000 applications during the entire tendering period. The amount of subsidies that can be paid up to now exceeds HUF 600 billion, some of which were made possible by way of an advance call and some by way of an invoice. And about future plans, we intend to pay another HUF 144 billion by mid-year this year, while by the end of the year we want to create the possibility of this huge sum, this HUF 2700 billion, to be transferred to the economy by 2019. If you'll allow me, I'd like to make a brief comment on why we're writing these applications now, why we're writing them out in this period of time. Basically, we also cooperated with the Chambers in this wide range of cooperation, and the request of the Chambers was that, given the fact that Hungarian businesses are in need of funds because of the global economic crisis and the anomalies experienced in the outsourcing practices of governments prior to us, we should, as far as possible, deliver this amount as quickly as possible to the beneficiaries, the Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises and very narrowly, with some exceptions to multinational large companies. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-306	Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Balázs Rákossy. Zoltán Magyar, Member Jobbik, announced his intention to speak in advance.
u2017-03-27-307	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to say a few sentences about rural development and agriculture, the subsidies and payments that are or are not taking place there. Not surprisingly, I do not share the positive statements and sentences of the government today, and we are experiencing something quite different in reality. I am pleased that, through the example of Ireland, my fellow Member Márton Gyöngyösi has shown that, in addition to rational use, such brutal amounts, which we have been discussing here for seven hours now, if I look at them, are indeed capable of a small miracle in the economy of each country, in the society of each country. We really need to find the few areas where Hungary is among the top of the world, and not surprisingly, I believe that agriculture and, above all, the food industry based on it can be such an area. But it is not only Ireland that can be brought up, let us look at the case of Austria, so that we can also touch on rural development a little. In the 1970s, the gap between the rural population and the urban population in Austria was nothing milder, smaller than in Hungary today, and yet they were able to close this gap in a decade and a half, and today we can say that being born in Austria as a rural Austrian citizen is not a competitive disadvantage, and that living in Austria is not a less accessible life for public services. We are now in Parliament for the third time in the last year on this subject, and we have seen, by order, that we are arguing for hours, and that there is a slip between the opposition and the government that we are using a completely different set of concepts. But this is not a coincidence, because you are banning or not bringing to us by law, or at least we cannot determine what small and medium-sized family farming means in agriculture, for example. When you say that you support them, for example, from 700 billion forints, you may be right in your own vocabulary, but not in our vocabulary and reality. This amount of money spent, for example, on rural development or support for agriculture, would be enough to decide at last what we Hungarians want with our countryside, our agriculture: a modern, Western European, XXI. We want to move towards a country of the century or South America. You are trying to spend this amount to really decide the issue, just in the direction of South America. I am glad that 80% of the rural development programme has been committed, although no one today has answered what will then be done in the next few years until who knows what system of new budgetary cycles will start. This, I believe, will cause a serious headache to future governments. In agriculture, too, you can see the kind of distinction that is in the mind of the two of us. While resources for the development of poultry, pig, cattle, sheep and goat farms have been brutally over-subscribed and only a fraction of those affected have been given the opportunity to develop at all in this area, more serious amounts have been made for arable crops, while, let us face it, real quality rural job development in this sector is no longer possible. [[21.20]] Jobbik is pleased that 15 to 20,000 families make a good living in this activity, and their work is also needed, but it is certain that these vast amounts of resources should not be given to them first. This kind of thinking has led us to the fact that in agriculture, most of the money is determined by a narrow 15-20 percent elite, and that is why the same names are constantly coming up in the biggest applications, which we are constantly meeting, and they have good close-to-government relations. It was said that this imbalance, i.e. that about two thirds of most resources will be given to this narrow circle, will change. We all remember that you have promised a radical change, a radical new approach, compared to the Socialists' policy on rural development. Compared to this, some names have been replaced, but the logic remains virtually the same. It is also important to talk about area payments, as they represent a huge slice of the whole aid scheme. Degression has been defined by you over 1,200 hectares, with some exceptions. We could go a lot lower than that. At home, they covered it with the European Union's approval. That's not true. In many countries they dared to go further, and it was up to the negotiating Member State's attitude to the size of the area above which the area payment was not paid or reduced. I think that family farmers would have benefited if this number had gone down substantially. The reason why I don't say a specific hectare is because it is obviously sector dependent on where this maximum should be set. One thing is certain: the national hat would not have decreased, so the part of the resource that we are saving should have been transferred to other sources of job creation or indeed to help small farms. It is also worth mentioning the LEADER, which, I can see, has indeed been thoroughly covered in the socialist period, but the solution is not, however, to the extent that it could have been spent on this programme from the total source, to 5%, but to implement accounting. The person who stole this money from the socialists should have been put in jail and left the 12 percent in prison, or even increased in the negotiations, because it is a very good bottom-up solution, where local communities really decided what they needed in cooperation, and then a programme could have grown out of it that really helped the rural Hungary catch up. There are many examples, but unfortunately, the time frame is limited. In these, I would have expected a meaningful response and concrete promises for the future. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-03-27-308	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Gyula Vantara, Fidesz.
u2017-03-27-309	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The topic is road development, road infrastructure development for the period 2014-20. In the foregoing, the Secretary of State has already provided substantive answers to Mr Ander's questions, so I would just like to provide you with a few additional information on this matter. The starting point, as has been said, is 2000. This year there were 460 km of motorways and motorways in Hungary, and only the Austrian border was connected to this system. A major development between 2001 and 15 started with a HUF 2500 billion investment, within the framework of three programmes, one of which was the Transport Operational Programme, popularly known as KözOP, including 606 projects started the development of road, rail, urban, suburban transport, port, logistics centre and 625 km of road development in line with the 11 and a half-tonne programme, which was an international commitment. In addition, what I would like to highlight in particular is 325 kilometers of cycling trails. This was an investment programme for safe transport of the most vulnerable participants in transport and a targeted development for road safety was carried out at 139 kilometres. Congressman Ander is no longer here. This patch-likeness comes back, and I would not call it patch-like, but for road safety, and I would like to formulate interventions that affect all areas of transport. Within the framework of the Integrated Transport Development Operational Programme, IKOP, there was a HUF 1215 billion framework. This was the TEN-T network, so it was the development of the international European network, 53 fixed track projects. Here, too, the development of suburban transport with 35 projects was involved in the development of sustainable urban transport. The European Network Development Facility is the third element, with the abbreviation CEF. Even today, the Hungarian framework is still a living framework, and we have been able to spend EUR 1075 million on transport development. These applications were announced in three rounds. The Hungarian government took full advantage of the first and second rounds. The third is the program called falling back, which is not used by other countries, and the Hungarian government submitted 18 programmes worth HUF 80 billion. As has been said in the Supplement to Mr Secretary of State, between 2016 and 22 on 1371/2016. Government decision defined the main directions for development. A total of 920 km of motorways were planned for the programme, and as a new strategy - this has also been said - it is the motorway programme connecting the 12 county seats and reaching the borders of Slovakia, Romania, Croatia and Austria. The total cost is 2480 billion, half of which is about HUF 1295 billion for 82 projects, so half of which is domestic. I would particularly like to thank the government for two major investments in my constituency. One of them is the construction of a 62-kilometer section of the M44 motorway, which means the realisation of a teenage dream in the county. Also, a European rail Corridor, this train from London-Istambul, is part of the investment of the Budapest-Szolnok-Békéscsaba-Lőkösháza-country border on the express line of Orient. Again, I am sorry that Congressman Ander is not here, because he should probably have his shoes taken off, so that more than 200 kilometers would come out of the length of the tracks that can travel from 140 kilometres or above, as this is the case in Békéscsaba. The investment continues between Békéscsaba-Lőökösháza-country border at HUF 1.8 billion in planning and preparation costs. Finally, two problems also raised by my fellow Member. One is that cataracts should be removed from the eye, and these investments, which he listed with great vehemency, all of them appear in the form of a public tender call in the European Union tender paper, i.e. all contractors in all of Europe's Member States can start. This was also the case with regard to the M44, and so was the case with all the railway investments it mentioned. Therefore, a coordinated action by 28 Member States is hard enough to imagine in order for the scenario outlined to take place. One more remark about him, too. In the profession, there is a saying long ago: with today's vehicles on yesterday's roads, his people travel the day before yesterday. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-03-27-310	Thank you, Congressman Vantara. Next speaker is Vice-President Tamás Sneider, Member, Jobbik.
u2017-03-27-311	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Towards the end of the debate, it can be said that we have heard many good things, and obviously the opposition has primarily formulated the things that concern the vast majority of people in Hungary. When we talk about investment in the European Union, in particular what can be criticised is obviously the return on investment, its social benefits, its sustainability, and, of course, corruption, which is definitely associated with it. Even you have acknowledged that, for there were only five percent of this corruption, others more. [[21.30]] I think that one of our great pains, and I also have a great heartache, is that when I walk around the country, I go around the country, obviously, when I see a huge, hundreds of billions of HUF investment, I find it difficult to say whether there is an overpriced, how much overpriced, because it takes very serious professionals. But in my life situation, I am fortunate that I had to go and build a house at the age of 12, at the age of 15, I was already a day worker in building houses, and this continued for quite a long time, and as a result, I am still very aware of what it costs, and I am also aware of the entrepreneurship burden that can be achieved. And when I walk the countryside, I walk the villages, I see not the big corruption cases primarily, but the tiny, 26-30-50 million corruption cases, when I see someone who has very good connections, creating a 26 million HUF project, paying him the full amount, saying that he will have a motor rental, the engine will show up on a truck, they will hang it up, the official will see that there really is a motor rental, a plywood joint specifically, and once it's over, he's seen it, it's been packed up, it's taken away, and the motor rental company hasn't been working for years, but he has received the 26 million HUF support. And that's just the most extraordinary example, but there are a lot of small, small things that don't belong to the great oligarchs, but a lot of people also bend down for such small money. So, unfortunately, this is a general phenomenon, and I am obviously condemning Hungarian officials for this, but also the European Union itself, because he himself does turn a blind eye to this theft that is happening here in Hungary. And I think that's a very terrible thing, probably because it's still worth keeping this colonial line for them, that some of their money or whatever we're paying in there, what we're getting back, is being thrown away in such a corrupt way. But speaking of payback, let's talk about this, too. State Secretary Zsolt Szabó is right in front of me, which is why it is good that I can now have two words about this, because I would like to talk about the castle programme or even about the protection of monuments in Hungary. Basically, it can be said that we do not spend too much money on the protection of monuments, as we will spend 0.2 percent of the Hungarian budget on it, which amounts to HUF 40 billion in the next period. In my heart, I'd spend a lot more on this area. But what I see is that the investments that are being made are not really thought out. And this concerns the 60th Grassalkovich Castle, which will be before a committee meeting tomorrow or the day after, as Fidesz, together with the socialists, wants to privatize this 5 billion forint castle. What happened, didn't it? It is very good that you are recovered and well-equipped, and everyone can be happy about this, but there is a maintenance cost of HUF 250 million, virtually minus the amount of operation of this museum. And that's when it comes to me - and not just me, but everyone else - that we planned something, but that we didn't take care of it anymore, or that we didn't take into account the huge amount of money it would cost. And now this story would be played to the Hungarian Hunting Chamber, and free of charge, with the free devotion of ownership, which means that after 2020, after three years, the hunting chamber can pass it on as soon as the obligation to maintain the museum is fulfilled. And allow us to remember the name of István Tiborcz and the names of other people who buy castles in Hungary today. Obviously, this is what stings people's eyes, and the question is about to come up, and perhaps the secretary of state will answer it, press a button, that not far from it, we will renew another castle for 2 billion forints, in a 3,500 enthusiastic settlement, of which one third is Gypsy, one third is retired, please. Practically everything is needed in this settlement, but not a luxury castle, I must add, the Buttler castle, although the renovation itself must be done, because of course this castle must remain, but my opinion is that if we build an old home for 200 people in a completely deprived environment, we will give 100 people jobs. I'm sure we should do that in this settlement. For gypsy people, it is certain that there is a need for job creation and that it can still be classified. Summa summarum, unfortunately, I have little time, and I cannot say all these things, but these are the cases that we believe are completely misleading the use of EU money. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-03-27-312	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, State Secretary, before the next comment.
u2017-03-27-313	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, If I may, I would like to talk about some of the ideas that concern today's professional subject. One of the things that is very important to all of us is the energy investments in the population, the warm home programme and related proposals supported and issued by the government. Let's talk about the wide layer that meets all needs. This is where the GINOP programme is concerned, as at the moment there is a complete package of reimbursable energy renovations in progress, and there is another package of programs, and we also support the saving of energy for the general public, both in terms of assets and in terms of buildings. The third thing to remember is that huge housing and real estate construction has started in the country as a result of this, which is the CSOK itself, which is a new real estate investment package. Here I would like to draw attention to one thing: every layer has every form of development, there is a way to build and an opportunity to apply and make money. We have 4.2 million real estates, about 70 percent of which are energy-controlled, if you can put it that way, but there is no money that would be sufficient for all real estates at an intensity of 100 per cent. We are very happy that we can help nearly 200,000 families directly and move forward in their activities. The other thing the government considers very important is that the use of proposals is outstanding for the future. I refer here to our derogation obligation in terms of sewer and drinking water applications for flood protection. We all remember the flood in Tisza and the question of the last flood in Duna, where we were honoured. We are now also financially helping to build the dams that are actually linked to climate change in our environment. The third thing is very important: it doesn't matter what public institutions our children go to, what conditions our children go to, what energy use they use in health care for example, what machines these institutions are equipped with, what government offices we conduct our affairs and what kind of elderly homes we maintain. What I would like to point out is that it is a program package that has already been written out of 1210 billion forints, so we are at 104 percent at the moment. This is the so-called 'ECHOP' package and it concerns the population in full. We must support any proposal that is accessible to everyone and does not bring about individual needs. I am sorry that my fellow Member has brought up the subject of Castle 60 here. For us sixty who bought brick tickets there 30 years ago, to build it, to renew it, it is a great pleasure to be able to renew it after 30 years, and we are very proud of it. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-314	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next announced speaker was Mr Péter Csizi, Member Fidesz.
u2017-03-27-315	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the eighth hour of the debate, I realized what was the reason for the almost antagonistic conflict between the opposition and the ruling parties, as I admit frankly, as long as I listened to the good news and the LMP comments about why we were spending these development funds so quickly, I did not understand why it was good that this thousands of billions of forints that were due to Hungary, Brussels or the government, would land in their bank accounts and stand there for years, despite the fact that local businesses, local governments, local NGOs, could be developed in the local economy. Local Members of Parliament know that our aim is to spend EU funds as soon as possible. As a Member of the Parliament of Pécs, I hear weekly from entrepreneurs in Pécs about when EU funds are coming, as they know very well that these funds will land at their place. [[21.40]] At the time of the socialist city leadership, 39 percent of the EU's money was spent by local businesses. Now this figure is nearly 60 percent, and our goal is to increase the participation of local small and medium-sized enterprises in EU programmes and projects by at least 10-15 percent, to be the winners of the programme or to be the developers of the municipal investment that the Pécs have been waiting for for for for 30 years; I am thinking of renovating the largest housing facility. I do not believe in the fact that, unlike socialist representatives - who have been watching the debate from home since six o'clock and do not respect Members to listen to our answers - that we should open a pastry shop in Vienna, I believe that EU funds should be spent in Pécs for the benefit of entrepreneurs in Pécs. Congressman Hadházy, the Ákos, the LMP, said he saw soft subsidies. And I see programmes, as I have already mentioned, which show a solution to three decades of problems that voters are asking us to solve. On the one hand, voters, entrepreneurs, ask us to spin out EU funds, to be in the economy as soon as possible, and on the other hand we are expected to keep our promises, and our voters expect us to implement local programmes. So the opposite between us is, this is the fruit of the last eight hours, that you are pulverizing the products of the communication kitchens of party centers in Budapest, and we are trying to implement the requests made to us from European Union sources. If this continues, this antagonistic conflict will be the case for many more cycles: we represent people as individual representatives, and you represent the different background contractors of your communications witchcraft, which you constantly do not want to name. And let's quickly see what the change is compared to the last year. One of the most important and very big achievements, we should be grateful to the government that there are no longer regional or national labels, and that there must be some sort of interruption in solving the problems of local people, but the TOP, regional operational programmes, provide answers and resources to local problems and local developments. Today, it is no longer necessary for large municipalities, as the municipality of Pécs, to apply for aid, but to call for a pre-specified support framework. There is another very important aspect that has not yet been discussed: in the previous round of applications, municipalities had to pay for themselves in order to implement the local problem from EU sources. The 50 percent self-force was a very large measure for a municipality, a local government leader had to decide whether he was either involved in a major development, which, by the way, offers a historical opportunity or is indebting his settlement. The previous application system was like the story of King Matthias and the rich lords, that they brought no and no support, and no money, because they brought 50 percent of EU funds, but they had to put bank resources provided by foreign creditors, foreign banks, and local governments in debt. This is also a big change from the previous one, that we can talk about 100 percent aid today, and, on the other hand, which is very important, in advance, the municipality will receive the necessary funds for the entire programme. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-316	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Csizi. The next speaker is Congressman Attila Tilki, Fidesz.
u2017-03-27-317	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I should talk about energy efficiency proposals, but just in front of me, Mr Zsolt Szabó was also involved and talked about this area. I would rather talk about what my colleague Peter Csizi left behind. It was really clear here for the eighth period what the difference was between the two sides. One of the most important differences is that as individual representatives, we represent the interests of the people in our region, and there are many of us who have significant experience in local government. I myself was the mayor of a small town, I was the mayor of Fehérgyarmat for eight years, and there are more of us here who were mayors of settlements, county generals, so we know exactly what we're talking about when we talk about applications, and we're not here to polish things in the witch's kitchen for political communication. Congressman Sneider spoke of the castle program, Hatvan, and a village next to it with a strong vehemency about why the state was renovating a castle in a deprived environment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it may be worth consulting with your fellow parties, because Tuzsér, where there is a better mayor, has a similar settlement, has a similar castle, and the Mayor of Tuzsér, who is otherwise a betterman, is constantly bombing the government with when his castle will be renovated. So I think that the texts that I am walking around in the countryside, perhaps it would be advisable to really take them seriously and really talk about the particular problems. I really think that such conspiracy theories should be handled or excluded. He said that corruption may be in the interests of the European Union as well. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have already mentioned in the construction industry that, in an OLAF audit, OLAF will look at the fact that, if, say, there are 600 construction lots, and between 600 construction lots, let's say, how many construction lots have the same lot or similar. We know precisely that designers and contractors price their products according to a specific programme, so this happens quite often. I wanted to point out that OLAF takes its work very seriously, so I would not say that the European Union is also interested in talking about corruption. Individual examples can be taken out, in the previous cycle there was also a 40-inch lookout. Believe me, we, who are responsible for the preparation, who are in contact with the mayors, know precisely that from the indicators and sustainability, a normal mayor approaches the tender that he would like to submit in his settlement. I don't think there's going to be any wrong investments. They also talked about underpriced, overpriced budgets; we wouldn't have thought of it. Say, in the previous budget cycle, when a given settlement submitted a tender, but did not expect the increase in fuel prices due to the global economic crisis, it would not have occurred to us to blame the then prime minister, Ferenc Gyurcsány, for not building a particular investment at the same price, since fuel prices increased dramatically at that time. The Secretary of State has now said that, either by raising the minimum wage for people working in the construction sector or by raising the minimum wage for skilled workers, certain investments are expected to increase, but the government party is not responsible for this. Therefore, I think that we should be happy, because these people are glad that their salaries have increased, and we should not always be talking about corruption, of course, and we understand precisely the instructions from your customers, so that we can encourage such an order. Congressman Szilágyi, also Mr Jobbik, said that to squander the money to the friends. I would really like to ask Mr Szilágyi if he were here, if he meant, for example, the 'Home Gay' programme. The heat of the home was implemented exclusively from domestic budget funding, and in my region, Szatmár-Bereg, Upper Szabolcs, small villages, whether in Fehérgyarmat, Vásárosnámény or even precisely in Tuzsér, people rejoiced when their boiler exchange was completed, they were able to replace their domestic refrigerators, they were able to replace the facade hatches, they were able to upgrade their condominiums, they were able to change washing machines. You don't really think that every single winner was fidesz, by the way, and they only won because they were fidesz? Because if that's what you think, then you really don't know today's Hungarian reality. [[21.50]] I would ask - although we know that this is a false fantasy - that later Jobbik should try to stay on the ground and learn about Hungarian reality, and not just so superficially what you are required to do. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-03-27-318	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Tilki. The next speaker is Congressman Sándor Hadházy, Fidesz.
u2017-03-27-319	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I can honestly say that it was so good to listen to my colleague from Borsod, my colleague from Baranya and others who reported on the development opportunities they had in their region thanks to the EU support system. Indeed, these are extremely important in order to strengthen Hungary's competitiveness, to be able to get involved in major politics in substance, and indeed to participate in the debate, the discourse on what world order will emerge in the next century. If we are powerless, then we are practically unable to intervene in this debate, it will be above our heads. I serve in the central region, and I can tell you that we not only look at these things with joy but also with some envy, because Pest County has completely fallen from these resources thanks to a very shady and damaging policy, thanks to which Budapest has had access to funds in the period 2007-13, which, in addition, has used resources for very poor efficiency and bad purposes. A very typical example of this issue is the huge amount of subway 4, its senselessness, the suspicion of corruption surrounding this investment. In this cycle, in the period 2014-20, Pest County practically ruled itself out in its entirety, namely, the government's previous measure excluded the possibility of accessing EU funds. We have set very serious development goals, the region has very serious problems, the main cause of which is the existence of agglomeration, as a large part of the people living in the agglomeration commute to Budapest every day because of their workplace, education, health care, and it could be classified for a long time, and this practically poisons the life of the agglomeration in its entirety. We have lobbied very seriously to ensure that this is not the case, and I am pleased that the government has accepted our request, and now the division of the central region can take place, and in the distant future, if there are still EU funds, then the region of Pest will also be able to apply for this type of funding. In the meantime, however, we must live and not rest. As a result of the cooperation of the 12 representatives of Pest County and the fair treatment of the government, HUF 80 million The government has managed to put resources together from domestic sources, and from this source we are trying to address the most important issues - such as the settlement of inland roads, inland water planning, development of municipal properties, development of businesses - which are extremely painful for us. I am pleased that we have this resource, and we trust that these resources will be available to us next year. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2017-03-27-320	Thank you very much, Congressman Hadházy. Forgive me, but let me ask Congressman about the record. He was talking about a source: 80 million forints? [[Sándor Hadházy: Yes.]] Not a billion? [[Sándor Hadházy: Yes, a billion.]] Please state in the record: 80 billion forints. Thank you very much. It's obviously late at night. The next announced speaker was Mr Vinnai Győző, Member Fidesz.
u2017-03-27-321	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr. Secretary of State! Fellow Members! We've been here eight hours, discussing EU developments. Several people have asked what the goal is, what the right goal is. In short, it might be possible to respond to this in such a way that the right objective and use make a decisive contribution to achieving sustainable economic growth in Hungary. Typically, EU funds should be devoted to economic development, job creation, strengthening small and medium-sized enterprises, increasing competitiveness and reducing territorial disparities. I myself undertake to present the priorities of the operational programme for the development of human resources in a few minutes, even in a sketchy way, that structural and cohesion resources should be used in Hungary in such a way that they serve to catch up with less developed areas. János Lázár said in the ministerial expozee at EU funds - and I think that is the point - when, how, and to whom. When? Preferably as quickly as possible, as Minister said that all calls for proposals will be published by the end of March. How? In order to make economic development meaningful, to create jobs, to reduce or move forward differences between socially disadvantaged groups, to strengthen schools or start health investment in backward areas, to strengthen communities, to strengthen rural Hungary. And for whom? In particular, Hungarian entrepreneurs, Hungarian communities, Hungarian people. Then let us look at the important priorities of the EFOP, the operational programme for the development of human resources, as this is a priority area in Hungary. The main objective of the Hungarian Partnership Agreement is economic growth based on sustainable, high added value production and employment expansion. This should be based on strengthening social cohesion. For this, there are sub-options within the five priorities of the EFOP contest, which is 952 billion forints, nearly a thousand billion forints. They can make the most effective contribution by increasing human capital and improving the social environment. Of course, we all know that, in practice, the EFOP should not only be involved in combating poverty. We talk about poverty a lot, and I think it's about how we can reduce it. In recent years, from 2011 onwards, since there has been a national catch-up strategy, the figures of the HCSO, the EU data, have shown that deep poverty has decreased from half a million to 185 thousand, the number and extent of vulnerable social groups have decreased and, in fact, the opportunities for applications are helping socially disadvantaged groups. Here I would relate to what Attila Mesterházy said: he approaches how territorial differences have decreased, and he said that in the previous cycle there were good programs to help inactive groups. Yes, they're inactive groups, but we want them to become active. So there is job creation,. Women's chance, there is employment, there is training for the Roma society, for the whole Hungarian society. I come from a constituency - Tisavasvári and its surroundings, Rakamaz and its surroundings, where there are two districts, the districts of Tisavasvári and Ibrányi, most of my constituency consists of these two districts - where there are significant disadvantaged social groups and the number of Roma minorities is also high. A few thoughts about priorities. The first and very important priority is that one third of the funds, some HUF 317 billion, can be spent on the cooperative society. In fact, there are sources of tender for strengthening families, promoting social inclusion, combating the poverty mentioned above, and combating discrimination. [[22.00]] The second priority is to invest in infrastructure worth HUF 177 billion, health and social infrastructure development: reducing inequalities in the health of the population and physical rehabilitation of the needy urban and rural communities and community service sites. And I have one more subject to discuss. The third priority is to improve knowledge capital, quality, efficiency and accessibility of education in the field of public education and higher education. The fourth priority is linked to this, also infrastructurally; the fifth is a smaller programme which seeks to strengthen social cooperation through the use of financial instruments. To conclude, let me give you an example, since István Ikotity speaks in his comment, because he may not hear - but he hears, he nods - he talks about squandered millions and billions in the field of public education and education. Well, I have a feeling that my fellow Member, Member, is not familiar with the EFOP programme, the priorities of the EFOP. From the teaching programme to the modernisation of secondary education, the modernisation of vocational education and training, until the renewal of research and development in higher education, they all appear as tender opportunities in the EFOP. Please study it and we hope that if these priorities prevail, then the social differences in Hungary will decrease. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-322	Thank you, Congressman Vinnai. The next speaker is Congressman Tamás László, Fidesz.
u2017-03-27-323	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. The ones who were left behind! My topic is catching up developments. I must say that, in fact, the entire EU cycle 2014-20 is all about catching up on a wide range of issues. Of course, I will focus on what is specifically the issue of proposals for catching up. I'd like to look back a little bit earlier on the pre-2014 period, and in 2010, as mayor, I inherited an application for which there were no plans. The election was in October, it was supposed to be completed by September, which had not yet begun, but penalties had to be paid. That's what I took over from the former socialist city council. Compared to this, we have carried out three social town rehabs between 10 and 14 in the New Palota residential estate, which is also a part of the settlement worth catching up with. That's because 50 years of promises had to be cashed in these few years. I must say that we have been left alone on this subject for a reason, Fidesz-Christian Democrats, because we have strong, concrete goals, we have concrete means. Our goal, if we have to sum up with a sentence, is to rebuild and build the country, so we have taken on a country building task in this cycle. In addition, thinking that the circumstances in Europe may change so much after 2020 that we will have what we can now achieve in building the country, and that will be the banner that we will be able to move on after 2020. That's why we completely reconfigured the system. In vain, opposition representatives say that the transformation here has nothing to do with it. I can only say one element, namely that 60 percent of EU funds are aimed at the development and further expansion of small and medium-sized enterprises. But let us now look specifically at developments in catching up, a large part of which, most of which are directed into people, human capital, and a small part is directed towards infrastructure development. This is not a coincidence, because the catch-up, as my friend Winner Vinnai or other Members have mentioned, has been about an incredible amount of things since the elimination of territorial inequalities, village-town, Budapest-region, and the rest of it must be mitigated in these few years. I must say that we have achieved extraordinary results at the half of the 14-20 cycle. It may be that this fire, which we are constantly receiving from MSZP through Jobbik through the LMP from all the small parties, is because we have achieved extraordinary successes in a few years. So that's probably the essence of this series of attacks. Our results are not recognised. I think it's not so bad, it's enough not for them, but for those who benefit from these improvements and will be able to use it. They mentioned Ireland's example. As far as Ireland is concerned, let me say that the opposition there is not likely to claim such attacks on the existing ruling party in the fundamental national affairs, but sees that if Ireland's development is the goal, we agree on that, and there are no such horrific attacks. Catching up is a very difficult question, isn't it? Everyone is primarily talking about the Roma situation and the inclusion of Roma. One of them is usually highlighted, one of them, the only one is mostly connected to the. Bridge in the world of work, and on the other hand, they do not realize that there are dozens of programmes for this catch-up policy. You can see that this works well, because dozens are not mentioned at all. It is among those who implement these programmes and are really trying to achieve significant things in catching up with Roma and underdeveloped regions. Those who are attacking these programmes, I must say that, on the one hand, they are attacking local organisations, communities, churches and municipalities, which are making incredible efforts to achieve significant results in these programmes. We could talk a lot about the results so far, but we are so alone that I think what I would like to talk about they all know; and the others will read it, especially when our programme ends in 2020 and we will be able to take the results into account in many, many volumes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-324	Thank you, Congressman Tamás László. The next announced speaker was Mr Attila Gelencsér, Member Fidesz.
u2017-03-27-325	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to talk about human resources development and perhaps more commonly known human development and their importance and necessity. Why is that necessary? Allow me in one sentence. Since 2010, it has been recognised by our opponents that 700,000 new jobs have been created in Hungary. This means that unemployment is now only around 4 percent. There are economic schools that say that unemployment is no less than 5%. And indeed, in some areas and in certain professions, there has been a shortage of workers. Allow me to give you a local example from my constituency. There is an entrepreneurial salon and an entrepreneurial club in my constituency in Kaposvár, and I've called the business club myself from time to time. In recent years, about a hundred significant CEOs from Kaposvár always wanted to talk to me about what we were changing our tax policy, and then there was a time when they just wanted to talk about what they could develop in terms of infrastructure improvements and asset purchases. So they wanted to talk to me about the macro-economic environment and the micro-economic environment, mostly as their representative. This situation has changed completely. They no longer want to talk to me about these things, they know all about them, they have learned and they find them right. I had to invite Mr. Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés, he was our guest the last time. For a year now, there's nothing that local companies would like to talk to me about except the shortage of labour and what plans I have for replacing the missing workforce. [[22.10]] We know of 2,000 unemployed people in Kaposvár, but more than 300 job vacancies at the same time. So it seems, let's just say, it's quite obvious that whoever could and wanted to work for us, even though we're not one of the richest regions yet, has been able to place themselves, which means that there are nearly two thousand people around us who need care, attention and help. We need programs. I believe that this is what the EFOP has been up to, the human resources operational programme mentioned here today, and even the operational programme to help those in need. There are these people, I think we have to look at them as the nation's gold reserve, who are still suffering from mental, health and skills deficiencies today, but if we use the EFOP opportunities well, if we give them training and training and we really do this effectively, they can still be involved in the world of work. Let me not say that the subject may not be appropriate, so it is not the migrants that are the solution for us, but the population policy, which is a long-term solution, and we have this golden reserve, which has been said here today, the Roma, the people in difficulty and the others. Only a few titles from the EFOP, perhaps because of a small advertisement: support for people with changed job skills;. Women's chance - training and employment; creating infocommunication-based distance services for everyday lives of disabled people; helping to integrate disadvantaged people into the labour market; pilot programmes for strengthening the social economy and the location of the most disadvantaged groups; women in the family and in the workplace; development of human services in a regional perspective; employment rehabilitation, professional courses; missing health and social human services; lifelong learning, access; development of social human resources and so on. The point is, therefore, if we make good use of these opportunities, we have taken a very big step in terms of the economy, in addition to the people we are helping, from the point of view of the economy. Looks like I got a minute and a half left. How's this program coming along? The EU programmes contribute significantly to the strengthening of Hungary. It has already been said here that we are talking about a thousand billion for the EFOP, and we are also here with Deputy Minister Nándor Csepreghy, who has confirmed in several of his statements that the Government is determined to launch all EU funding by the end of this month. Now, according to our data on 22 March, 83 percent of the EFOP was announced in 2017, so until 31 March, the publication of the EFOP is expected to reach 100 percent; I think the Deputy Minister will confirm this. And here is the second important issue, the level of commitments, and there we have also taken a very big step. We have data on March 20, which is 257 billion out of nearly 1000 billion, and an operational programme designed to support those in need, out of a total of 34 billion, 99 percent of it has already been announced. I am finishing my speech because I understand that someone would like to speak after me, so I thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-326	Thank you very much, Congressman Attila Gelencsér. I give the floor to Congressman Péter Csizi, Fidesz.
u2017-03-27-327	Thank you very much to my fellow Member, Attila Gelencsér, for the last one and a half minutes to take advantage of and send home to my own constituency, the city of Pécs, and to sum up the 8.5-hour debate, which sounds like if one of the opposition parties were to lead the country, we would not be able to talk about two billion HUF industrial park development in Pécs, a new market hall would not be built, Zsolnay Quarter would not develop, there would not be a new office building in the downtown - by the way, we could create 500 jobs - we would not have a HUF 1.5 billion education programme to support integration. The TV tower and its surroundings would not be renewed, there would not be a new archaeological museum for the city and the county of Baranya, there would not be a new attraction for the city in Pécs, the military technology park in the Füzésrét, the Nagy Imre Street, Hegedűs János Street, the North County vineyard, the Füzes vineyard and the western industrial road, there would not be three 500 kilowatt solar parks for the city in the Füzes vineyard, there would not be a renewal of eight kindergartens, a cradle and two schools, and we would not be able to renovate a new park and playground for the Pécs. I'd like to talk to you about what happened to the high house, and then after the agenda, I'd like to talk to you in five minutes. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-328	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Csizi. I give the floor to Vice-President Tamás Sneider, Member, Jobbik.
u2017-03-27-329	Thank you, Mr. President. Just a thought or two. First of all, I was pleased to hear the comments by the government and, by the way, the secretary of state that expressed self-criticism, and I believe that these were the serious things that were said today, that you can see that you are not satisfied with what is currently being found in Hungary, which is working. However, I was saddened to hear the last speeches, these victory reports from my fellow Members, because one thing we should be aware of is that this is the alpha and omega of everything. Please, in the last ten years, we are not breaking away from Western Europe, the last ten years have been a story of our neighbours, We're separated from Central Europe. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] All macroeconomic data are about this, and when they go home and think about their victory reports for themselves, think about why, then, Hungary has become the poorest country in Central Europe in the last ten years. Thank you very much.
u2017-03-27-330	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy in a 20-minute time frame.
u2017-03-27-331	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Allow me, on behalf of the Government of Hungary, to thank you for your participation in today's third EU debate day. I think that we have heard many arguments and arguments, but from the government's point of view, we can be satisfied, because the most important statements, along which the government organises development policy, so that the use of EU and domestic development resources can be organised, and the development policy for the Hungarian economic interest, Hungarian employment and the stability of the Hungarian economic position could not be triggered by a meaningful attack on this day. I think that these debates are certainly useful, and that is why we would like to repeat this in the autumn session, because if we can learn something from each other only in terms of fine-tuning, this is worth listening to, even if it takes eight hours. Mr President, thank you very much for your work in conducting and for your participation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-332	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The political debate is closed. Sándor Bodó, representative of Fidesz, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "The Memorial Year of Pál Gönczy."
u2017-03-27-333	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, The famous son of the city of Hajduszoboszlo is Pál Sebesi Gönczy. In 2017, this year is the 200th anniversary of his birth and the 125th anniversary of his death. Because of his outstanding work, allow me to remember him among the walls of this House, because the results of our ancestors make our present and our future successful. Pál Gönczy was a respected politician and scientist. As a prominent figure and leader of his age, he has a number of achievements that we can rightly be proud of. He has also succeeded in fulfilling his educational work as a politician, and he has been able to use the knowledge he has acquired in the field of education in the form of regulations and laws for the benefit of the country. [[22.20]] He continued his studies at the Reformed High School in Debrecen, where he made a lifelong friendship with János Arany. Later, he began his work as a teacher in Zelemer, then in Pest. He was a sign of his pedagogical career that he considered the link between theoretical and practical knowledge to be very important. In schools, the globes he created with Hungarian names were later used, which was a great step forward in the education of geographical knowledge. In his political work, he also required schools to use the tools to illustrate. He had the opportunity, as I said in my introduction, to complete his professional, pedagogical knowledge and approach in his political career and to bring his ideas to the services of the country. On the recommendation of József Eötvös and his colleagues, he went to the Ministry of Religious and Public Education, where he became a class counselor, ministerial councillor, and finally State Secretary. All officials of the Ministry were then faced with extremely difficult tasks. The organisational framework for education was undeveloped, there was a lack of administrative experience in teaching, and the resistance of feudal forces had to be combated. However, at this difficult time, they were the ones who undertook to establish and implement the folk school law through its implementation. Although he did not participate directly in the parliamentary debate of the bill which was violently attacked by the opposition, he played an outstanding role in its final form, even more so in its practical implementation. During his work, he prepared guidelines, organizational regulations and law enforcement forms for the organisation of popular education. His work established the administrative organisation of the public education system nationwide. We can therefore point out that, as Chief Counselor of the Ministry of Religious and Public Education, and then as State Secretary, he is the name of the National School Act of 1868, which is of great importance, since this provision introduced general and compulsory education for children aged 6-12 for the first time in Hungary. He was directly led by 64 schools, 24 teaching schools, 1500 schools. It has gained great merit in establishing the financial position of schools and building school buildings. Pál Gönczy's diverse work has therefore been shown in pedagogical and political fields, but it is also important to mention his botanical and cartographic activities. He wrote a number of books and articles for the teaching of botany, and he also excelled in the theoretical and practical issues of farming. He actively participated in the event of the World Exhibition in Vienna and Paris. Later, in May 1888, a national celebration was held on the 50th anniversary of his operation in the field of education and education. He retired in the fall of 1889. He rewarded his merits with the appointment to the main house of the age. The names of Pál Gönczy are preserved by the schools, tablets and outstanding scientific activities left behind for posterity. He told me that, " He who is not a teacher of spirit, not a teacher!'" This year was declared a commemorative year by the magistrate of Hajduszoboszló, the late admirers, remembering him, his outstanding activity, his work, and I think that this is a good way to pay tribute to his memory. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-334	Thank you very much, Congressman Bodo. I now give the floor to Mr Attila Tilki, on the floor after the agenda, with the title "The Last Parliament of the Rákóczi Freedom Fight" on Salánkon. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-27-335	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, in everyday life, drifting as a flood, let us not forget to look up sometimes: in order to know where we are, we need to know where we come from. It is our duty to commemorate an important event in our great history, II. Ferenc Rákóczi's last parliament, which carries important messages for today's Hungarians, whether from here or beyond the border. One is belonging, which means that the Hungarian nation cannot be set boundaries today. And the other is that we can never give up, we can't be slums of the Habsburgs or the European Union. At the end of the war of independence, on January 13, 1711 the prince made a truce with the Emperor for a month, and on January 31, Count János Pálffy, the Imperial Field Marshal, handed over the conditions of peace to the great prince. To discuss the conditions of peace, Rákóczi called his counselors and senators to the palace of Salánk, which he met during the hunts. On February 10, 1711 the prince arrived at the meeting place, in the northwest part of the county of Ugocsa, in the village of Salánk, in the land of Black Creek. The eight-year freedom fight, full of many glory and suffering, whose cradle, soil, strength and reserve was our narrower country, Satmár-Bereg and Ugocsa, rejected the peace conditions of the Habsburgs by their decision at the last meeting. Here the orders determined that Rákóczi would try to get Russian Tsar Peter to help at a personal meeting in Poland. During the absence of the prince, Alexander Károlyi was appointed commander in chief of the Kuruc armies. On February 18, he left Salánk for the final journey of the prince and left his country, where he never returned alive. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. Ferenc Rákóczi led the fight for the country's complete independence, and he ended up failing because of the weak balance of power, the unfavourable political situation in Europe and the internal social contradictions in the country. Despite the failure, the war of freedom prevented Hungary's full integration into the Habsburg Empire. Rákóczi was forced to emigrate, but he became an unquestionable national hero, and he remained a role model for the Hungarians to follow. Since 2015, it has been the birthday of the prominent statesman, the leader of the Rákóczi War of Liberty, the national memorial day of 27 March. The Parliament decided on this in 2015.2017. I participated in Annex II on 12 February 2007 On the occasion of the 306th anniversary of Ferenc Rákóczi's Salánk Parliament, a memorial ceremony was held in Salánk, where István Cúry, bishop of the Reformed Church District of Király Passómellék held the Thanksgiving service. At the Rákóczi Memorial Park, I explained in my festive speech that the attachment to Kuruc traditions is one of the main criteria for the settlements of Ugocsa, but, like Ugocsa, it is also true for the inhabitants of the settlements of Szatmár and Bereg. The spirit of Cum Deo pro Patria et Libertate gives the settlements stamina. That is why this commemoration is of great importance, as it gives a strong grip to today's Transcarpathian Hungarians, who today experience difficult times in the political situation surrounding them. They started collecting signatures for the use of their language, and the feeling is that Andry Parubij, President of the Supreme Council, announced that in the near future people with dual citizenship in office would be deprived of Ukrainian citizenship. Let us not forget that on 18 March, the extreme right-wing team Karpatska Szics held its march in Ungvár for the many times, which also does not help national reconciliation. Perhaps it is important for us, not only for the Transcarpathians, but for us here in Parliament, the idea that Pastor Lajos Horkay wrote in 1936 in the Talking Stones. In the Talking Stones, the story of Salahn was summarized by the gentleman who was there and respected. He wrote: "My goal is to raise faith, self-consciousness and self-confidence in your soul, the Hungarian Calvinist people of Salánk! In this world of lamps, you will see who your fathers were in Captain Robot, Suffering, Disappointment, Protection, Natural and Elementary Plagues, the way of war, life and death, suffering, but believing, hopeful and persistent Hungarian Calvinist people! " Remember today, II. The actions of Prince Ferenc Rákóczi [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Respect for the brave who lost their lives fighting for our country! [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-03-27-336	Thank you, Congressman Attila Tilki. Mr Péter Csizi also applied for an after-the-meet speech: the Decade of Life Risk has been resolved by breaking down the High House in Pécs. You have the floor, Congressman. [[22.30]]
u2017-03-27-337	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Here, within the framework of Parliament, we have talked several times about the decade-long problem of the high house in Pécs. There were times when I asked the government for help in the form of an immediate question, there were times when I thanked the government for the help that the city received a billion forints, which was enough to break it down. And now I am here to go beyond expressing my gratitude, and to give an account to this House, and through this to the Government of Hungary, why it was important to give public money, to solve this decade-old problem, and to finally tear down the building on which nearly 500 million forints were spent during the Socialist City Administration. But let's not go that far. The high house in Pécs was handed over in 1976 and was considered practically one of the prides of socialism. The aim then was to create the largest residential building in Central Europe and to use a so-called Yugoslav IMS technology, on the ground that if there was going to be a larger earthquake than otherwise happening in Europe, Italy, Turin, then and only then is this technology that protects the inhabitants. It should be added that in Hungary there has been neither since then nor before such an earthquake, nor even close. But then it was somehow important to build this 82 meters high panel house, which was basically an oversized, over-dimensioned, extreme-sized building. It's nothing special. It was done like this in the '70s. Unfortunately, socialism's desire to rise, neglect and lack of expertise have resulted. As early as 1983, the ex post inspection of the building revealed that something was wrong too quickly, a few years after the handover, the so-called nodes, which kept the structure of the roof, began to rust. By the way, in 1990 the house was evacuated and 130 buildings with similar technology were erected in Hungary, and the same error was everywhere. After all, during the time of socialism, not only did they want to build a great one, but they didn't even have time to wait for the technology, so they used a so-called special binding accelerator, whose only flaw was that salt was added to the binding accelerator or the malter. We know very well that if they salt concrete, iron concrete, it practically rusts and corrods. It's like the salt that would bite the concrete like a worm and directly attack the steel pillars that hold the whole building. From the end of 1989, as I mentioned, the building was empty, it was also included in the Guinness record book, as it was the longest empty residential building in Central Europe. We Pécs and we say that it was a symbol of inertia, because it was not enough that millions of forints of money were spent on a technology, a building that could not serve its inhabitants for a decade, after the years of the 1990s, for two decades after the evacuation, the socialist city administration could not do anything about the building. It may have been necessary to build an office building, to hear hotels and luxury hotels, but perhaps the worst is to read back in 2003 the words of the Hungarian Minister for Education Bálint, who thought that our children should be moved into the high house, as he wanted to create a college from this building in a PPP construction. From the building to which 450 million forints have already been spent, 450 million forints would otherwise have been enough to demolish the building, which now cost 1 billion forints. And it turned out at the demolition that the problem was not only the same as I mentioned that the technology was wrong, but also the construction workers were in a slendrian way, because it was in the nodes that instead of the concrete, the construction residue [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Gloves and cement paper were put in there. Thank you for helping us break down the last memento of socialism. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-03-27-338	Thank you very much, Congressman Péter Csizi. Mr István Ikotity, on behalf of the LMP, also applied for a post-scheduled speech. The state robbery is equivalent to the kidnapping of the nation's future. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-03-27-339	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I think it is important that we try to maintain clarity about the development of the situation in the Hungarian countryside. In the long run, we will stand or fail to see the state of the country's resources and in whose hands, beyond the state of our moral foundations, they are in. Kishantos was nothing more than a disturbing detail for the Fidesz government; a modern, mechanized, prosperous, mid-scale bioeconomy of 450 hectares, certified both in Hungary and Switzerland. A bio-economy that was built into the very high-quality lands of a German large-owner state farm operated by over 8,000 hectares of former communist stromones. The government's rural policy is much explained by the fact that, as long as Kishantos has been impossible, the great estates in his neighbourhood can continue to run smoothly on state land, with Tibor Flag's agricultural chamber leader at the head. The Hungarian state wanted to bring the local farmers to the farm by making 452 hectares of organic farming impossible. Kishantos was not a hobby garden, not an experiment, not a showroom, but a thriving farm on its own feet, which proved by his presence that he could be different from agriculture; that he did not need a thousand hectares for a decent living, that he could be gentle with the environment, that he could be modern, modern and - oh, principal sin! - more profitable, more profitable farming without the products of foreign chemical producing and sterile seed distribution giants. Yes, that would have been disturbing enough, but Kishantos' fate was sealed by the fact that he preached and taught all this knowledge and practice at a local folk college, set up on a Danish model, and presented it in practice. It couldn't be tolerated. For Kishantos was the exclaiming practical proof that József Ángyán, the most outstanding agricultural policy politician of our lifetime, was right in his plans and ambitions, that he did not pursue utopia, but in the current national rural strategy, which was adopted and announced by the present government, he really created the unparalleled plan of the Hungarian countryside and the Hungarian agriculture within him. The Secretary of State, Márton Örs, who took the lead in the government's vendetta campaign against the bioeconomy, has not reached the conclusion to this day; despite the fact that he has been told by a court that he has lied and deceived the public for his own political purposes, he has nevertheless remained a senior government official. As a result of the revenge of the Fidesz government, the chemical-free management of 21 years has been wasted and an idea represented by Kishantos. And the evidence is known to be removed in certain cases, as a matter of urgency, at any cost, by violation, by law. This is not the first lawsuit that Kishantos wins, but court rulings, the statement of who told the truth and who didn't, who acted legally and who didn't, don't hit our threshold. They could learn the lesson from Gyula Horn, who said:. Na és?..The court stated that the representatives of the government lied in a press dispute about the matter, tried to slander Kishantos and his leaders, that they had violated the rules of application during the redistribution of the land, so that the individual awards were null and void, the Ombudsman said that even the new invitation to tender was illegal and even unconstitutional, because he should have demanded a smooth continuation of organic production. [[22.40]] Now the court has ruled that there has been a robbery: they have destroyed the crops by state-supported force, and they have not paid Kishantos the values received. So what? Iustitia regnorum is a fundamental - justice is the basis for staying in power. The foundation of every country is pure morality. These are serious and true things. It's Lent, conversion means I realize I'm in the wrong place, I'm in the wrong place, and so I'm going back to the situation, the place, the state where I was still fine, which was fine. I stand there, there, and I arrange my lines, and I start from there again, more clearly, with better insights, more true. Let's hope there's insight, awakening, conversion. We hope that, as in the past, there will continue to be a return to the rule of law, to the common good, there will be reparation and a fresh start. All such judicial judgments satisfy us with cunning fear and give us hope: it will come, because it must come, a better age - as our ancestors pushed it into us. "Master," asked the disciple, "do we have to wait long for the Great Change?" 'Well, if we wait,' replied the master, 'then for a long time. Thank you.
u2017-03-27-340	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csepreghy wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2017-03-27-341	Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for the floor. Congressman, allow me to add to what you have said by making the decision of the Metropolitan Court and clarifying the position that the Government has previously expressed that the exploitation of land owned by the State has been lawful in all cases. It is important to quote the court because I see that, despite the professional arguments, the effective programme of the government responding to farmers' needs, because the land leases were supported by more than 30 thousand farmers, but in an area where the Hungarian state has not been able to manage effectively for years. If you want to go back to the moment of truth, I suggest that you look for that date much earlier than the establishment of the small estate or landowner system in Kishantos, well, decades, if any, and before that. The aim of the Hungarian government was to eliminate the land lease system in essence and to announce the land auction, so that those who cultivate it are indeed the owners of the Hungarian agricultural land, because, as a result of the legacy of communism, the long-term contracts are not a guarantee for the Hungarian farming community that it is worth investing capital, whether it is worth investing credit in an investment; whether we are talking about how they make a land more productive, or how the technical tools serving it are bought. Thanks to the land auction, more than 8,000 farmers managed to get to land, people who used to be tenants can now actually cultivate their own territory, which is also important because the state is unable to manage effectively in areas that have been fragmented and fragmented, if it could, I think it would have been possible to prove this in the last twenty or a few years. We never did it once, and here the country had a government of all kinds. It is right that landowners are genuinely interested in the development of the land and are indeed interested in making the most of the land. However, this can only be imagined in the context of a well-thought-out estate policy, where large estates do play a role, but small and medium-sized family farming plays a much greater role. It has a role to play, however, that a family, a small community, tries to thrive on their own, but, beyond or beyond the heritage of communism, they believe in cooperation and cooperation between farmers working side by side in one area. The aim of the new estate policy system was to prevent the state from supporting the creation of these single blocks over a certain size of property, which is why the government decided to maximize the amount of land that could be obtained at the auction in 300 hectares, and the government also decided to support and contribute to the Hungarian Parliament's support for the revenue generated from this after land lease sales, which would be used to reduce public debt by more than HUF 200 billion. So we have not only been able to reduce Hungary's external dependency, but we have also succeeded in strengthening a sovereign sector of farmers who can indeed guarantee what the LMP says here that we need agricultural professionals serving or building up Hungary's pantry, but clearly when political decisions need to be made, and when it comes to supporting these people, it forgets this. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-03-27-342	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 3 April 2017. I thank you for your work, and I wish you a restful good night. The meeting's closed. [[The meeting ended at 10:45 p.m.]]
