u2017-06-15-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to welcome you. [[Lajos Korózs: What about Czegledy?]] I'll tell you in a minute, I'll give the floor to Congressman. [[Lajos Korózs: Has the verdict been reached yet?]] Congressman, do you want me to ban you for today? [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Mr President, then ban all of us.]] The 37th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs and Attila Gelencsér will be notaries of my assistance. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Where are the Fidesz? They don't do their job.]] Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, At the initiative of the Fidesz Group, I am ordering a trial break of 15 hours and 45 minutes, after which the Parliament will continue its meeting with decisions. I'll see you at 3:45 p.m. [[Pause: 15.07 15.48President: Dr. János LatorcaiPublishers: Attila Gelencsér and Loránt Hegedűs]]
u2017-06-15-1	[[The people in this room stand up.]] The lineup was an honor for me and for those I represent, but the meeting took place at 3:00. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, After the break, we will resume the meeting of the Parliament. President János Áder sent a transcript of the appointment of new State Secretarys to the Parliament. I would ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to present the transcript of the President of the Republic. Here you go, notary.
u2017-06-15-2	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament, Budapest. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law, as well as the XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the Government and State Secretarys of State. Law 52. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Dr. Attila Aszódi and Dr. Attila Becskekházi Csaba as State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office with effect from 8 June 2017. Budapest, 7 June 2017 Sincerely, János Áder. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Paragraph 3 (j) and Section XLIII of 2010 on central government administrations and the status of members of the government and State Secretarys. Law 52. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Dr. Attila Aszódi and Dr. Attila Becskekházi Csaba as State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office with effect from 8 June 2017. Budapest, 7 June 2017 Sincerely, János Áder. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2017-06-15-3	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate the Secretary of State and wish you every success in your work. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the government has submitted a legislative programme for the autumn session, which will be available to interested parties on the IT network. It is now time for decisions on the agenda. Please check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machine. Next up is the 2016 XC on Hungary's central budget for 2017. T/15427 amending Act No. Final vote of bill No 1. Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the House Rules, the Speaker of Parliament is the T/15427/16 submitted by the national Parliament. It sent a single proposal to the President of the Fiscal Council. Opinion of the Council on the granting of a preliminary contribution T/15427/18 Number 2 is available on the network. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15427/16. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 127 votes in favour, 62 votes in favour and no abstentions. Next up is the T/15381 on Hungary's central budget for 2018. Final vote of bill No 1. Under the provisions of the Stability Act and the House Rules, the Speaker of Parliament is T/15381/1237 submitted by the national Parliament. The single budget bill No 1 was sent to the President of the Fiscal Council. Opinion of the Council on the granting of a preliminary contribution T/15381/1242. Each person on the network can access it. With all due respect, I welcome Mr Árpád Kovács, President of the Fiscal Council, and ask that the house rules be adopted in accordance with Rule 36. If you would like to come to the platform pursuant to paragraph 11 of Section 11 of the Act and express your opinion on the budget. Here you go, Mr. President. Mr. President, you have the floor.
u2017-06-15-4	Dear Parliament, Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Minister Lords! As known, the President of Parliament sent on 12 June a proposal for a single budget law on Hungary's central budget for 2018, including the transfer of amendments adopted by Parliament, asking the Fiscal Council's opinion under the Stability Act on compliance with the sovereign debt rule and the granting of its preliminary contribution under the Fundamental Law to the final vote on the draft budget law. On the basis of its examination, the Council, acting unanimously at its meeting on 14 June 2017, took the following decision. [[15.50]] It concluded that the planned government debt ratio of 31 December 2018 was T/15381/1237 on Hungary's Central Budget Act of 2018 Proposal for a Single Budget Act No 3 § 3 is a well-founded measure [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] (Continuous noise. - The president's ringing. It is in line with the provisions of the Stability Act and the budgetary processes on which the bill is based. After the 69.5 per cent of the government debt ratio calculated by the end of 2018 is lower than 71.4 per cent expected by the end of 2017, the requirement of Article 36 (5) of the Fundamental Law is also met. On this basis, the Council gave its preliminary consent under Article 44 (3) of the Fundamental Law to the final vote on the proposal for a single budget law. Dear Parliament, Please allow me to give a very brief justification for the decision of the Council, in accordance with its mandate. You are aware that the framework of the sovereign debt rule is formulated by the Fundamental Law as follows:. As long as the government debt exceeds half of the total domestic product, Parliament can only adopt a central budget law containing a reduction in the ratio of the government debt to the total domestic product. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Stability Act also contains a requirement for debt developments. This was amended by the Parliament from 2016 taking into account the indications of the Fiscal Council. On the basis of the macroeconomic conditions used for budget planning, the following will apply for 2018. As at least one of the projected inflation for the fiscal year and the real growth rate of gross domestic product does not exceed 3 per cent, the government debt ratio should be reduced by at least 0,1 percentage points. I can mention what I said at the beginning of the general debate on the bill that the sovereign debt rule is fulfilled, as in 2018, the debt ratio will decrease by 1.8 percent compared to that provision. Thus, the reserve is adequate to cover the impact of risks that may lead to a more moderate reduction, arising from developments in national and international factors affecting the growth of the national economy, the revenue and expenditure of public finances other than expected. The Council also noted that the EU debt rule was also met, as the reduction in the debt ratio is higher than one 20th of the average rate of over 60 per cent over the last three years. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In the process of the Council, he followed the parliamentary discussion of the draft budget law. On the basis of the expert analyses carried out on this basis and the review of the proposal for a single budget law, the Council concluded that, compared to the bill submitted, the changes in appropriations adopted by Parliament in their balance would increase the total revenue and expenditure of the central subsystem by a very modest amount. In this way, the amount of both the cash flow deficit and the government debt will remain unchanged. In its decision, the Council indicated that the source of the increase in expenditure had been created, in addition to internal transfers, by increasing the appropriations for tax, contribution and levy revenues. I would also like to refer very briefly to the Council's opinion on the simultaneous amendment of the 2017 Budget Act, which also covered the context of the 2017 and 2018 budgets. In this regard, the Council proposed that, should the favourable macroeconomic and public finances process continue this year, expenditure should be brought forward from 2018 to 2017, as far as possible. This makes it more manageable to consider the risks that I have indicated from this place at the beginning of the 2018 budget discussion, which may occur in 2018 in relation to the government projections higher than the consensus forecast. This will strengthen the security of meeting the 2018 budgetary targets and the financial stability of public finances. In order to maintain the stability of public finances, the Council considered it appropriate to draw the government's attention to the continuation of disciplined management in both legislative proposals, in particular with regard to expenditure and the use of reserve appropriations. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you at the end of my comment, as I did in the opinion of the draft budget law proposal, that the panel could now build on a very extensive background of analysts and experts, in addition to the evaluation of the State Audit Office and the Hungarian National Bank, to justify the Council's position on the establishment of single legislative proposals. At the same time, I would like to thank you for your cooperation with the senior staff of the Ministry of National Economy. Thank you very much for your attention. I wish you a good vote and a good summer. [[16.00]]
u2017-06-15-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/15381/1237. Proposal for a single budget law No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the single budget bill by 127 votes in favour, 62 against and without abstentions. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] The H/16032 on the declaration of the year 2017 as the Memorial Year of St. László follows. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. I would remind you that, according to our decision on Monday, the motion for a resolution will be discussed by Parliament with a derogation from the house rules. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/16032 will accept it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal with 185 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. Next up is the 2003 III. on the exploration of the secret service activities of the last system and the establishment of the Historical Archives of the State Security Services. Act T/15844 amending Act T/1584 and certain related laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would remind you that, according to our decision on Monday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/1584/4. No T/15844.5 and its summary report. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/1584/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 132 votes in favour, 52 against and 2 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/15844 will accept it. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the amended bill by 126 votes in favour, 57 against and two abstentions. Following a series of amendments to Act C of 2003 on electronic communications, T/155557. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/155557/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/15557/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 157 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 26 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/155557/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 156 votes in favour, 27 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Now, by the MSZP Group, the Justice Committee 9/2014-2018. On the rejection of IUB's ad hoc resolution, Ü/15978. We shall decide on a request submitted to the European Parliament. I would remind you that this trial was already held by the Parliament on Tuesday. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Ü/15978 proposed by the MSZP. Request No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the request by 61 votes in favour, 124 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that on Tuesday, the Parliament has already held their talks. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles with the title T/15761 by our fellow Member and fellow Members of the Szakács László MSZP on the abolition of the Lex CEU. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 60 votes in favour, 124 votes against and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles by our fellow Members from Tóth Bertalan and Szakács László MSZP - LIV 2013 on the implementation of the reductions in the world market for oil and gas prices. T/13877. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not include the bill with 54 votes in favour, 124 against and 5 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles with the title H/14507 for certain measures needed to ease wage tensions in the public sector by our fellow Member and fellow Members of the Szakács László MSZP. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 59 votes in favour, 124 votes against and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of questions by our fellow Member and fellow Members of the Szakács László MSZP T/1576. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 60 votes in favour, 122 votes against and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of questions by our colleagues at Szél Bernadett and Hadházy Ákos LMP about the transparency of the state security past and about the changes to the law needed to exclude the professional staff of pro-state leaders and dictatorship from the possession of certain public offices, T/14287. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 60 votes in favour, 117 votes against and 1 abstention. [[16.10]] I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, whether you will be included in a series of questions by our colleague Erzsébet Schmuck LMP on the amendment of certain laws to improve the situation of pensioners, T/14725. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 60 votes in favour, 116 votes against and no abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in a series of articles entitled T/15422 by Gábor Vona, our better Member and fellow Members, on the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not include the bill with 26 votes in favour, 118 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, That concludes the decisions. We will now take a two-minute technical break and then continue our work with speeches after the agenda. [[It's a short break.]] Thank you very much for your patience. I would ask my fellow Members to sit down if anyone remains in this Chamber. The speeches following the agenda will follow. After the agenda, Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély applied for a speech from the MSZP group with the title "The End of the Session." Here you go, Congresswoman. [[It's constant noise.]] I would ask my fellow Members to ensure that the Member's speech after the agenda is given in good and undisturbed terms. Here you go.
u2017-06-15-6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I would like to conclude the session with an important problem: how we stand today with the issue of infertility in Hungary. Although the number of births has increased slightly in recent years, Hungary's population continues to decline by 30-40 thousand people per year. For example, in 2016, 93,000 were born alive with nearly 127 thousand deaths. Behind the extremely high mortality rate lies the health system's problems: the shortage of specialists, hospital infections, and there is much more to be said. According to the latest figures, Hungary's population has decreased by 134 thousand in five years, corresponding to about the population of a large Hungarian city. The government is supposed to promise families grass trees, but it doesn't think about people who want children, but unfortunately they don't have them for health reasons. Today, according to known data, this huge problem is now not one in five parties, but one in four parties. This further undermines Hungary's negative population indicators. The government has been complaining for years about the low birth rate, yet it has not increased the funding of flask treatments. Remember, a few years ago, Gábor Zombor, former State Secretary for Health, promised that there was a very strong government will to double the two billion HUF planned in the budget. Unfortunately, the government has not managed to solve this in recent years. The recently announced family support proposals did not include any proposals on infertility. Then, in the last week, we have noticed that the government has announced that they will raise the budget for this, but they will not achieve it in the way that it would be good for barren couples. Now we're talking about shutting down one of the fertility centers. According to press reports, the Kaal Institute's state-funded flask treatment unit, operating at the University of Debrecen, has obviously been terminated or terminated by a request from the Ministry from above, or more precisely by instructions. It is important to know that 70 percent of the IVF treatments paid by the social insurance company take place today in Hungary at the Kaal Institute in Budapest and in the rural centres of the Kaal Institute. Unfortunately, we see that the state is not working to make the treatment of barren couples more efficient, it is not working to open the funding of this fertility treatment from above. In several articles, Professor Kaali said that the aim should not be to double the support for fertility treatments, but to abolish the upper limit. If we are talking about infertility in Hungary today, it must be said that we are here expressing an opinion on the birth of the desired children. One of the most important means of intervention could be if the government paid more attention to the problem of one in four parties today in Hungary. But what we're seeing is that the government isn't working to have as many children as possible, it's working on how to keep an institution out of the market. We do not understand how it can happen that a very well-functioning institution that has been operating for several decades in Hungary is now being bled out by the government. We don't understand how the government wants to get patients back into the state system, when we see that every single disease we're dealing with is a lack of expertise, medicine, nurses, resources, and a well-functioning system and now the government is trying to destroy us. I believe that this must be done by all means for the sake of our unborn children and for the sake of those couples. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] people who want to raise children in this country and want to have children and raise children. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-06-15-7	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, the notary of the Parliament from the Jobbik Group, applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2017-06-15-8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On June 18, 1868, 149 years ago, Miklós Horthy of Nagybányai, the Governor of Hungary was born in Kenderes. The historical merit of Horthy is without doubt that in the worst times, in the midst of the Kisantantant occupation after the ugly fall of the Council republic, he took over Hungary, and after the events of the past years that caused immense suffering, he re-established Hungary on a growing course with strong hands and rock-solid determination. This is a huge achievement when we consider that in mid- 1919, the western circle leading in the darkest months of the first proletarian dictatorship in Hungary, it has come to light that even Hungary's independent state existence could be abolished in order to prevent the further spread of the Lenin ideas. [[16.20]] So, half a year after the start of the Károlyi national destruction rampage, we were saying that the territorial integrity of historical Hungary or the preservation of most of the Hungarian areas were no longer at stake, but that the very existence of our country was at stake. Horthy's decisive action has removed this threat, creating an opportunity for our country to be reunited and for our nation to be reunited. Dear Parliament, When Horthy was elected governor within these walls, the bodies of our nation, who had been tortured deeper than the First World War trenches, had never seen social conflicts, grievances, and grievances. Therefore, he could have used these differences to the extreme, unleashed the no doubt existing emotions, and steered them with supposed or real enemy images on the basis of the principle of the, divide and conquering, as a priority in maintaining power at all costs. However, he did not want to bring the weakened and tormented nation under his rule, but to lift it up again, because he did not consider the growth of the nation to be his priority - I am now looking towards the Prime Minister's seat. That is why Ferenc Joseph, as his former wingman, prevented Joseph IV from doing so. Our King Charles returned to the throne, or as he later sought the opportunity to leave the hell that consumed worlds of World War II. The Horthy system has made Hungary a recognised state all over Europe only a few years after the country's mutilation in Trianon, in the face of foreign policy isolation and extremely difficult economic conditions, so that it has been able to take advantage of the opportunities opened up as a result of the change in world history for ethnically based area feedback and the return of millions of Hungarian brothers. Many of his judges blame Horthy for being able to do more to eliminate social inequalities, raise peasantry, lordship servants, or increase the standard of living of the labour force. However, they forget that the recovery at the end of the twenties was brought to an end after a few years by the great global economic crisis, from which our country managed to make some progress only in the late 30s, on the eve of the new world war. Nevertheless, during the Horthy era, a number of measures were taken to increase the standard of living of the population, from the ONCSA programme to the introduction of eight-class primary schools. His helpers were such as István Bethlen, Gyula Gömbös, or Pál Teleki. Dear Parliament, József Antall, former Prime Minister, said: "I consider Miklós Horthy to be a Hungarian patriot, who must be placed with honor in the knowledge of the nation. " To this day, however, his memory has not been cleansed of the unjust filth of the communists in Hungary and then of their Balliberal offspring. The 150th anniversary of the birth of the governor next year is an excellent opportunity for this. We consider it important that we finally remember this in 2018 in a worthy way, even in a commemorative year, and thus help to help to discuss disputes about a vast and varied life's work on a professional basis without bias and to re-establish it in national awareness. Our rich history is abundant in large and illustrious individuals, but we must not lose either of them for false ideological reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, I recently spoke about the fact that this year's 150th anniversary of the settlement was not celebrated in any way by the government, while, by the way, quite rightly, it shows sufficient sensitivity in other cases in terms of commemorative days and commemorative years. Of course, a government whose power-technical alpha and omega, and thus the element of its existence, is a permanent struggle against any perceived or real enemy, can hardly be interpreted as an anniversary of an agreement, compromise, overshadowing national interests in the face of individual insults and contradictions. I can only hope that, in the case of Miklós Horthy, the government will take a different position and give us the opportunity to re-evaluate the historical role of our former governor and to remember his person. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-06-15-9	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament is expected to take place in September 2017. I thank you for your work and thank you for your work throughout the spring semester. The meeting's closed. I wish you all a good rest. Happy birthday, God bless you all. [[The meeting ended at 4:25 p.m.]]
