u2017-10-09-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, We'll start our work. The 8th day of the fall session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and István Szávay, notaries, will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, We will begin our work today with speeches before the agenda, from 11:50 a.m. to 13:20 a.m., and then we will have an hour of immediate questions and answers from about 13:20 a.m. to about 14:20 a.m.; finally, we will complete the Parliament's meeting with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, The Member of the Christian Democratic People's Party, Mr András Aradszki, Minister of State has applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of Christian duty to fight against the Satan/Soros plan. You have the floor, Congressman, Secretary of State.
u2017-10-09-1	Mr President, Dear House, Once again, Europe finds hope when man is at the centre of its institutions. The statement of man's central role also means finding a family atmosphere in which all contribute to a shared home according to their own abilities and abilities. It is worth bearing in mind that Europe is a family of peoples, and, like all good families, there are different sensitive points, but everyone can grow according to the degree of cooperation. The European Union is born as a unity of diversity and diversity. Consequently, individualities should not be surprised, nor should it be considered that unity should be maintained with the sameness. Everyone puts their own resources and abilities into the joint. Today, the European Union needs to rediscover the feeling that it is, above all, a community of people and peoples. What I have said so far is not the words of one of the MEPs of the European Parliament, nor the resolution of any conservative party, nor even the brilliant creation of my own mind, but the thoughts of the speech which, on 24 March, on the eve of the feast of angelic greeting, the Pope Francis addressed to the leaders of the states and central institutions of the European Union on the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Roman Treaties. That's why I'm asking our opponents preparing to cut fences not to hide with Pope Francis. Recommend to the attention of George Soros and his comrades, repeating the essential message: Europe is a family of peoples. The European Union is born as a unity of diversity and diversity. Uniqueness should not be surprised, nor should it be considered that unity should be maintained with the sameness. Everyone shares their own resources and abilities. The whole is present in each part, and each part is present in the whole with its own characteristics. Thus, according to the pope, Europe is also a large family with its own characteristics, uniqueness, values. It is not the responsibility of the head of the family to leave the gate and the front door open for the night, and then, if the home invasions were to come, to open the windows, and finally to declare with satisfaction how much happier and more diverse the family has become; as a German woman who is a green politician said, Germany would be less likely to be without exciting migrants. Mr. President. Dear House, Today, we know that according to the third secret in Fatima, which was just a hundred years ago told by Our Lady to the three shepherd children, the greatest and final attack on the Satanic Church will be an attack on families. We see this also in relation to abortion, euthanasia, marriage of singles and political force of gender theory. The Holy Father's thoughts about this, of course, are not quoted by the Soros mercenaries. But we can also see in the attacks on the great European family when Soros and his comrades want to eliminate the independence and values of nations, diluting Europe with a Christian spirit by the forced resettlement of tens of millions of foreign migrants. Fighting Satan is a Christian duty. Yes, I'm talking about the attack of Satan, who is also an angel of denial, because they keep denying what they're up to, even when it's obvious. They nervously insist that there is no quota; there is no compulsory introduction; the Soros plan does not exist. Satan is the bearer of false light elsewhere, Lucifer, as he teaches the church of human love in a pseudohumane manner, in a philanthropic robe, with similar hypocritical and lying passwords. It's an anti-human sin, and as such it's anti-God. Whether the Hungarians ask for this will be obvious in a few weeks. The national consultation is an excellent opportunity to give an opinion on the Soros Plan of Satan primarily, but also on what we think of our thousand-year-old country, our national sovereignty, our freedom and our beloved Europe. Dear House, On Saturday, I attended a rosary ceremony around my constituency, around Érd, where, like our Polish brothers, we prayed to the Virgin Mary for our country, for the absence of the Christian Europe today, and for the disappearance of terrorism, because the Rosary is the strongest weapon against evil, which many exorcists, besides Popes John Paul and Benedict, claim, are capable of changing history. György Soros will experience this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-09-2	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond.
u2017-10-09-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, At this point, perhaps it is worth seeing what the Catholic Church's catechism says about immigration, as it makes it clear that it only provides assistance for those who suffer political persecution in addition to economic difficulties. Here, however, it describes in very detail the obligations of all migrants on the basis of catechism. Firstly, for the various authorities in point 2241 of catechism, the text states that the various public authorities have the possibility and the right to make the exercise of the right to immigration subject to different conditions, and here catechism itself requires, in particular, the fulfilment of certain obligations; it names a few. The first is that immigrants must respect the spiritual traditions of the host country with gratitude - and thus also with an internal attitude -; they must obey the laws of the host country; they must respect the material traditions of the host country, they must contribute to the bearing of public burdens. These are precisely the obligations for all immigrants, which the Hungarian government has shown on posters so often disputed and considered inhumane by the opposition, when it wrote that those who come to Hungary must comply with Hungary's laws; they must respect its culture and respect the economic system, they must not take away the work of other people. We can read almost literally similar things when we raise the catechism of the Catholic Church, only they write gratitude for the need to be grateful to the immigrant, beyond respecting the law. However, as you have explained, the Soros plan represents a planned automated resettlement process, not integration, but invasion, with 1 million immigrants a year, with 9 million HUF support. Few Hungarian poor people received HUF 9 million as a support from the European Union. György Soros has already said that the Hungarian border closure is in the way, and therefore it must be dismantled, and legal barriers must also be removed, so that as many people arrive in Europe, artificially changing the composition of the countries in the population, and does not allow European citizens to have a say in this, since only in Hungary there has been direct consultation with people. However, Hungary believes that people with a difficult fate should be helped in their own homeland, as this is the best for everyone, and that the donation of a given unit or the sum of money has a much greater benefit if we can help in the homeland. [[11.10]] Hungary has therefore decided to help people in difficulty through reconstruction of residential houses, educational assistance, medical assistance, humanitarian donations and international engagement. That is why we are building the city of Telskuf out of 2 million euros, in which the buildings were damaged because of the operations of the Islamic State; that is why the school that helped the Hungarian government to accommodate children a few hundred kilometers away from their homeland in Erbíl is being built in Erbíl, Iraq. For Szent József Hospital in the Kurdistan region, we will cover six million euros of the six months' need for medicine in these months, and so this autumn and winter they will be given medicine in St. Joseph's Hospital for Christians and non-Christians, because we have uploaded these supplies of medicines from Hungary's donation, and if Hungary hadn't given them, they wouldn't be able to use these medicines. We gave important help when Coptic Christians were attacked, as we treated some of the injured there in Hungary. The award of various scholarships is an important element of the Hungarian Helps program. With the Stipendium Hungaricum scholarship, we provide various scholarships in 51 developing countries, and we have opened a special scholarship for 100 students, in which Christians were persecuted primarily from Lebanon, Syria, Iraq, Palestine, Egypt, Nigeria and Pakistan, their opening ceremony took place last week. The Syrian Catholic Patriarchate in Lebanon has provided a national contribution of EUR 1 million to its humanitarian activity in Lebanon, with EUR 1 million for the Syrian Orthodox Church in Damascus. Hungary has allocated EUR 3 million to the Madad Fund, the Syrian reconstruction fund, which is the same size and even greater than the assistance of some countries in Western Europe, which are much richer than we are. We support children's education in the camps in Turkey. In Turkey, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon, in a joint programme, we are helping to tackle the refugee situation with €325 000, and we have also provided €70,000 in aid to improve the situation of Iraqi internal refugees. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] EUR 20,000 for the Zaatari camp, EUR 5 million for the Syrian refugees at the London conference, EUR 5 million for Afghanistan - and I might add - for institutional and humanitarian aid. I believe that Hungary is also taking part in Christian help in this way. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Nándor Gúr, representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, asked for a speech before the agenda, Mr. It's an address. You have the floor.
u2017-10-09-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I could ask, yes, how long, how long is the state of unfair working conditions, and I can tell you that hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary have to work in inhumane working conditions. We know that it's the world's decent work day behind us this weekend. The right to a decent and fair job, access to it is a groundwork, no, not on the black job stage, no, not for food and food. Tens of millions of people, not in Hungary, generally perform their work under conditions that are not acceptable, but here in Hungary, as I said, there are hundreds of thousands of people who are not fair, and I can say that they do their work in inhumane conditions. Just look at the events of the past six to seven years, the development of the number of work accidents, and it will immediately come to us and see what has happened in the last six to seven years. Between 2011 and 2017, the proportion of work accidents increased by more than 30 percent; they increased by more than 30 percent. I indicate that in the previous 7-8 years, after 2002, it decreased by 40% until 2011. Obviously, these are not random processes, they are not brought to life on their own, but there is a reason for the story. If it's work, it's work with a fair pay. Let's not talk about public employment, because in 2010 the net worth was over 60,000 forints, then came the famous 47,000 forints, and today still 54 thousand forints in public employment is the net money that people catch up with. But in public employment, as in the public sector, a lot of graduates earn 71 thousand forints, of course, before that they came from somewhere else, fired from the public administration stage, and searched for double or triple of this. But when you look at minimum wagers, they've been stolen for five years, and they've got less consumer-powered, valuable money in their hands. 70 percent of the working people earn virtually the median average salary, and the scissors open in relation to the least and most earners. The funds, money, and wages that provide the basis for a decent living do not come to people. Today, more than half of the working people earn less than the living minimum per capita. Take a look at the amount of taxes to be paid at the IRS on the basis of the money you've earned. Safety at work? No, you can't talk about safety. Increasing number of work accidents, as I mentioned earlier, is a total vulnerability. For you, it's only the man that doesn't matter. Freedom of expression, right, freedom of organisation, or the participation of workers in shaping their fate, making decisions? I don't even want to talk about it anymore. Equal opportunities don't say much to you either. Of course, equality without discrimination does not occur in their thoughts, but it seems to me that the focus is different. Focus is on making a profit, focusing on the amount of money stolen, people don't matter. The last 7-8 years in the world of decent work have been greatly threatened, and there have been many negative measures - remember! - to the detriment of workers, and not to the benefit of trade unions. Without the need for completeness: the National Stakeholder Council was terminated and the National Economic and Social Council, which could be considered as a prison meeting, was set up. They've rewritten the strike law, made it impossible for the strike to take place, even the scope of the service to be provided by the court. The Labour Code has brought vulnerability, disenfranchised, flexibility, yes, but not security. In the public sector, the salary base has remained unchanged for 8 years, HUF 38 650. There has not been a four-year cycle since the moment of the change of regime, which would have confirmed this, but in the public service, as I said, public employment has also become dominant. Today, graduates earn a net wage of HUF 71,000 within the framework of public employment. So, I can only call what they did impudent filth. We could ask you how much longer. I don't want an answer. I don't want it until the elections in 2018 fail, and a new government will be in the interest of the people. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the new government force that will be born on the democratic side. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-10-09-6	Thank you, Congressman, notary. On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, will respond.
u2017-10-09-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I believe you have said that access to work is a fundamental right, if I recall correctly. We agree with that, and that is why I wonder why you forgot the basic facts in your speech, such as the fact that, while the government promised one million new jobs in 2010, 700 thousand new jobs have already been created in Hungary and, unlike your suggestion, most of these new jobs have been created in the market sphere. I would like to remind you that there was more than 12 percent unemployment in 2010, and that we managed to do so below 5 percent, slightly above 4 percent, and I hope we agree that it is important that everyone who wants to work in this country has a job. You couldn't guarantee it, you couldn't guarantee it. [[11.20]] You have also enlarged that, in addition to the fact that it is important for everyone to have a job, it is also very important to make it worth their while. That is why I would like to remind you that average wages have increased by more than 10 percent in Hungary over the last year. During your period, the real value of the net minimum wage - also mentioned minimum wages - rose by only one percentage point, whereas in the year of civil governance, the minimum wage increased substantially each year. Instead of 89 thousand forints in 2010, the minimum wage for skilled workers will reach 180 thousand forints by 2018. At the minimum wage, this ratio will reach 138 thousand forints instead of 73 thousand forints by 2018. These are fundamental facts that I regret you did not mention. Now let's not talk about the MSZP tax increase plans. [[Nándor Gúr: That's for you!]] If the MSZP were in government, there would be high unemployment, still higher taxes and therefore lower wages. Let's not talk about the fact that when you were in government, you put hundreds of thousands of civil servants on the street. So much for that question. But since we're here, I'd like to respond to one more thing. It's quite interesting that last week your candidate for Prime Minister failed, and he hasn't mentioned it in a single word now, while we would have the right to expect to be informed about it. In any case, the MSZP held a Bureau meeting at the end of the week - to be more precise: election meeting - where, if we understand correctly, they decided not to appoint their own candidate in the 2018 elections. That means they put the gun down again in front of Ferenc Gyurcsány, and they put it down unconditionally. So if we had to sum up what happened in the last week, we would just say that Ferenc Gyurcsány in the House. Not only are we talking in the air when we say that, because Csaba Horváth, your Budapest leader, also indicated that the stakes of the 2018 election are Orbán or Gyurcsány. After a long time, this is the first thing we can agree on with the MSZP. If someone listened a little and watched the TV interviews, they might have heard interesting things. Gyula Molnár, Péter Juhász and Gergely Karácsony will now take a number again at Ferenc Gyurcsány, and Pinocchio in Autumn also openly pointed out that he was also in agreement with the LMP, he said that agreement could be reached in 10-15 places. So, the complete left lies at the feet of Ferenc Gyurcsány. It is often said that football is a game played by twenty-two, and then the Germans win at the end. A little translation of this can also be said that left-wing politics is a puppetry, where, although there are many actors who seem to be independent, Ferenc Gyurcsány always pulls the strings at the end of the story. That's what we're seeing right now. If you think about it a little bit more, it is very, very sad, because the left is still there in 2017, more than ten years after the autumn speech, after thousands of break-ups, they are calling again for the man who would have lied the stars off the sky, for the one who shot peacefully protesting citizens, and who, if he had not failed in time, would have completely nullified Hungary's economy. Dear House, The left may learn nothing and forget nothing, but we would very much like to forget this failed left-wing period, and we will do everything in our power not to accidentally come back. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speech by Mr Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, on the agenda will be given by the May Other, with the title of the country's territories in the hands of large owners. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-09-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It is very, very important to talk about Hungary's property policy and the situation that has developed throughout the Hungarian countryside and in Hungarian society, because property policy basically determines the structure of agriculture, and the structure of agriculture basically determines the possibility of staying in the countryside and living in the countryside. Don't get me wrong, I don't want to put everything on the Fidesz-KDNP's neck, although it's a big responsibility, because it goes back to a cheated compensation system, a system where virtually those who knew that by the time the game was done, they bought compensation tickets for pennies, and that's how they gained great values. This is a shame for the Fidesz-KDNP - to have a small policy here - because the compensation has not yet been made in many settlements in Hungary, and there is still a billion-dollar compensation ticket out there, waiting for the descendants and family members of those who have been dragged into the former system to do something about it. Then came what happened around the theaters: chief accountants and the presidents of the theaes bought parts, kept huge leases. This was also a step in the direction of the first substantial step in the concentration of the major estate. Unfortunately, the Dirty Twelve Memories of the MSZP Government are once again attached, when, in practice, the fraudulent state economies were given to people without any technical and substantive basis; you could have given them to anyone. A man who was a friend came in, he didn't have a penny, he got a state-supported loan to buy something from the state, he got 50 years of land, and basically all he had to do was collect the goods to get a huge estate. This was complemented by the privatization of land, the greatest robbery in recent years, to which not only the Fidesz-KDNP has assisted and participated, but also as an initiative by Magos, the Magos, who betrayed and deceived the countryside, agreed to the villainy that had happened to the country. After I've talked about what all this has resulted in, I'll tell you the numbers I tried to publish last week. Hungary's 30 largest agricultural interests are currently cultivated at 213 thousand hectares, which means 2134 square kilometres. This is virtually nearly as much as the entire territory of Luxembourg or 3.6 times the Lake Balaton. Only 20 of the largest agricultural companies have 775 square kilometres of land, or 77,500 hectares, roughly the size of the total Bahrain or Dominican Republic. The ten largest agricultural companies in Hungary, together with 532 square kilometres, are 53,000 hectares larger than the total Andorra or Seychelles. And within this, only Sándor Csányi's interest, which includes all of his companies, is almost 32 450 hectares larger than the total area of Malta or larger than the entire White Lake. In the interests of Zsolt Nyerges and Lajos Simicska, the combined size of agricultural areas exceeds 244 square kilometres, which is larger than the whole of the Cook Islands. The area of interest of Tamás Leisztinger is 217 square kilometres larger than the entire territory of American Samoa or Liechtenstein. Areas of interest to Lőrinc Mészáros with an area of 82 square kilometres larger than the entire territory of San Marino. (The chair was Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Based on all these sizes, we could assume that these large owners, these oligarchs, could even create a country of their own, because they have such areas. The problem is that they made their own country during the Fidesz administration here in Hungary. And this large estate structure, which factually confirms what the May Other Politics has been constantly stressing in recent years, is that the shift of the large estate structure will lead to a South American direction, where agriculture and landscape use are a livelihood for very few people, this can be demonstrated by increasing numbers of indicators. In the countryside, population migration, the ageing of settlements means that in nearly 140 of the 3300 settlements, 100 people are outnumbered, and then there are a dozen where the number of souls is less than 20. At the moment, the 35 largest settlements in Hungary - with a population of more than 35 thousand people - represent the 4 million population of Hungary... - that is, the total population of just over half of them. This concentration of large estates and the simultaneous depopulation of rural areas is what makes it impossible for Hungary to develop in a healthy way, and to bring Hungary back to the European Union with a normal wage policy, and to allow Hungary's citizens to enjoy a quality of life such as any EU citizen. The consequences of this have been cemented and hardened during your governance, but this change is waiting for a potential LMP government. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-10-09-10	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Secretary of State Márton Bitay has indicated that he wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2017-10-09-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, He told me a lot of things. I have to say that until the 1995-96-97s - although not so named - we agree about the same thing: the destruction, the breakdown, the breakdown of state farms, and then the breakdown of them. Then there was a change, and here I can only partially agree with what he said and not at all after 2010. [[11.30]] I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the fact that a person has a land or rents land is not yet incorrigible. Everyone has the right to do this. And it can't be considered stealing either. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that it is interesting to listen to you every time you say such things, that you personally and the companies of your interest have applied for 2300 hectares of state land. That, let's just say, compared to our pictures of the size of the family estate, doesn't exactly add up. I understand that you are frustrated by this, because in your own declaration of property, there are more than six pages of land-related space. So you're obviously well-informed on this issue. I'm sorry you're always coming back here for some indecipherable reason. I couldn't help but think that your new campaign advisor, Ron Werber, has given the order that land affairs must always speak in a negative context. But I would also like to draw your attention to some other figures. He mentioned that the largest farmers in Hungary produce 216 thousand hectares of land. I would just like to make it clear to the audience, for the sake of this House, that we are talking about 6 million hectares of agricultural land. So, overall, I don't see this as much. I would also like to share with you, or I would like to continue the discussion that, if you are so disturbed by the existence of large farms and large plants, why has LMP not voted in favour of the Land Traffic Act, where the land use ceiling has been modified and delivered from 2500 hectares to 1,200 hectares. I think what you're saying is very false. And it is absolutely outrageous that you confuse waste and waste disposal with the sale at the auction where the Hungarian State concluded 30,000 contracts, and those who had previously been unable to reach the land. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, when we started the programme for farmers, 600 people used state land in 2010, and now more than 8500 people use it. Some numbers from the data published by the Central Statistical Office. I would like to mention to you that the proportion of agricultural land cultivated by individual farms has increased by 10 percent compared to 2010 and that the share of agricultural land cultivated by economic organisations has decreased by 13 percent. These, I think, are an excellent indicator of how the inherited estate structure, which is roughly half a large economy, half a family farm from plant size has changed to our day, and now about 60-40 percent of the farmland use rate is in favour of family farms in Hungary. At the same time, I would also like to say that nobody thinks I am, or at least I don't think I am, an anti-economic politician. I think it is very important that we put down the points that stand for the large economic structure. Hungary needs serious agricultural holdings, because they can make investments such as those mentioned by you, like Sándor Csányi and his interests. More than HUF 21 billion was built in a slaughterhouse, which has not been built in Hungary for more than 35 years. I think that it does have a positive impact on Hungary's agricultural economy if we don't export live pigs, but if we do, by chance, try to process them, to make a mister's pardon, perhaps to produce a final product, and to keep our own markets for our own raw materials, not to sell low-quality foods from abroad. So I would like to ask you to consider the possibility that you will not continue to go against rural Hungary in relation to the land sale programme, you will not go against farmers who are the winners of this land programme, and over 30,000 people have successfully bought from this land programme. And to manage its own hundreds of hectares of agricultural land, I wish you further success. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-09-12	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. To speak before the next agenda, Mr János Volner, Head of the Group, from Jobbik, asked for a speech on how did the Mafia government break down democracy? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-09-13	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I speak primarily to the pro-government representatives. An educational way of life belongs to Viktor Orbán. Let's see how it started. Viktor Orbán started his political career within the framework of the Communist Youth Association, and then he made such good services to the regime of authoritarianism that shortly thereafter his efforts were rewarded with a greasy ministry position. Then, shortly thereafter, the elite who stole and derailed the regime change made sure that the young young man worked as a scholar and coworker of George Soros. Then, when the change of regime took place, Viktor Orbán from an English elite university, where he listened to the history of English liberal philosophy, returned home, and immediately became a Member of Parliament. I can tell you that the way of life began with a knight's hair. It is also worth remembering that György Soros, a freemason speculator named by the pro-government press, helped Viktor Orbán and a number of his party partners to enter the major politics, against whom the government now, at least seemingly, is at war. The same can be observed with Lajos Simicska. The Simicska Lajos, who is now cursed and who is talking about corruption, has twice helped Viktor Orbán and his government to gain power and keep it. It is also important to see that in 2010, when Fidesz came to power, it systematically, step by step, destroyed democracy in Hungary. There are only fidesz delegates at the media authority, which is why, in no small part, 70 lawsuits have been lost in recent months against Jobbik because of the fact that they run a complete lie factory out of billions received from the state Árpád Habony, István Garancsi, Lőrinc Mészáros. In the public media recently it was written directly about what Vona's dogs did and did not do, impartially, on a public service basis. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we've come to. At the head of the National Court Office is Tünde Hando, the wife of a fidesz MEP. At the head of the State Audit Office, which would also be a position requiring independence, László Domokos is an ex-Fidesz Member of Parliament. At the head of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office is a former Fidesz member, Péter Polt. At the head of the police, we can see all the people Fidesz and you have appointed. In one year, Lőrinc Mészáros, barely able to speak, increased the wealth written in his name by HUF 100 billion; but here is the second Lőrince Orbán, István Garancsi, who also makes good money. Antal Rogán and his friends Árpád Habony, their circle of friends, had access to the settlement policy and many others. At the same time, the government ensured that Lőrinc Mészáros buys the county papers, eliminates the Népszabadság, and bought the second largest TV2 company in Hungary with Andy Vajna's state bank money. Then it turned out that posters mounted on electric columns, advertising signs, were dangerous. They were owned by a company called ESMA. Then, when István Garancsi managed to buy himself into ESMA, it turned out that they were not potentially dangerous and that these posters should not actually be banned. Technically, the government has subverted part of the public billboard and billboard market. It is important to see that a criminal report has already been filed in the case of billboards, because Fidesz has kept the actual campaign spending from the State Audit Office. Recently, we have faced the fact that the governing party is trying to make it impossible to ban the public billboards of Jobbik. Ladies and gentlemen. It was against the law what the government office did. Jobbik tried to publish their own posters on their own posters, but the government ordered the police to break the law. There was a further violation of the law that the State Audit Office refused to take over the data on Jobbik's management even when we brought it to him ourselves with our economic director, and then your press later lied that Jobbik was keeping secrets about the data. It was also against the law that the government decree was passed the other day because they tried to override the laws of a lower law. This is what Viktor Orbán has come to. He started out as a communist, and he's still a communist now. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-09-14	Thank you. Mr Csaba Dömötör wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor. [[11.40]]
u2017-10-09-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Don't lie!]] When we sit here and listen to the right-wing speeches, we listen to two kinds of speeches: or they speak for and on behalf of an oligarch, this is one type; and the other type basically means saying the same thing as any random left-wing party. And now the interesting thing was that these two types of speeches were combined, complementing the fact that Népszabadság was also lamented. One thing about the media, though. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Let me tell you: so you are concerned about the media in Hungary, while Jobbik's party foundation provides significant support for a TV that commemorates Adolf Hitler's birthday. So much for what the Hungarian media would be like if the Jobbikon were to depend. [[Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] It is a bit strange to listen to a lecture from the party that previously suggested that the Iranian Revolutionary Guard oversee the Hungarian elections. It is your party, after all, that one of its leaders is accused of spying on a foreign country. After all, Jobbik is the party that had previously tried to circumvent the Hungarian authorities with a paramilitary guard. And after that, you guys... [[Adam Mirkóczki intervenes.]] they are talking about Hungarian democracy. If you are interested in Hungarian democracy, please ask your party president what he meant by not so long ago in a season opening speech that, I quote, we are not democrats, he said. That was at that time, by the way. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] when you would have left the European Union. As for the question of posters, because I see that this is very important to you for clear reasons, I can suggest one thing: follow the law, just like everyone else in this country. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, including Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Keep it!]] The fact that the embarrassing posters were finally removed proves that you know very well that you have violated the law - that is the case. And your speech, by the way. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] There is already much evidence that Jobbik is becoming less and less able to say that a party that works for the interests of the country has, on the other hand, become an attached part of a business enterprise, we can safely call it the parliamentary contact department. (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. ) And the thing is, they're very badly involved in a party financing scandal these weeks, and they typically tell them that it's a business secret. So for you, your own business is nothing more than business. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, including Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] Now we understand everything. Therefore, it is not important for Jobbik to represent national interests and Hungarian interests. That's why the referendum was drilled last year. Therefore, the amendment to the basic anti-quota law was not voted in favour. That's why the president of Jobbik said that when it comes to the resettlement of a few thousand immigrants, okay, he said, "Okay." [[György Szilágyi intervenes and presents a document.]] You can talk about that. That is why, while they were burning an EU flag, they would now hand over powers to the European Union and raise Hungarian wages with a Brussels official and a Croatian neo-Nazi. [[A statement from Jobbik: You are not telling the truth!]] This policy, of course, comes at a great cost. What we see is that Jobbik is constantly turned their backs on the most loyal supporters of the past and, by the way, a significant part of society. And what's the answer to that? What's your answer? They start insulting them. For example, the elderly have been insulted by the fact that their mouths are drained of sewage. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: For you!]] 20th Anniversary of the 20th Anniversary And instead of young people, they radicalize. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] That's what he said. The Hungarians across the border were kicked by comparing them to North American Indians who could be bought with a handful of glass beads. That's what one of your leaders said. Then I could also mention Congressman Mirkóczki, who, for some part of the electorate, said that they were only interested in Tesco and beer and the game of the evening. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: At least quote it precisely, because that is not what I said.]] What kind of disdainful attitude is that? What kind of disdainful style is that? Then, after such a premonition, it is no wonder that Jobbik is becoming more and more hopeless. [[Interviews from Jobbik, among others: Árpád Habony... Ádám Mir.kóczki: Dyslexia can be cured!]] So hopelessly that Gábor Vona recently went to a liberal club in Budapest for support [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] and offered to join forces with anyone against Fidesz. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: It's been a long weekend!]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] And he offered to work with anyone against Fidesz. (Adam Mirkóczki: It was a long weekend!) He then received a letter from your party president to the left-wing voters, to those left-wing voters he had previously called, I quote, a balliberal mob. Look it up on the Internet, it doesn't forget. (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. ) Dear Chief of Staff, So, in summary, I just want to say to you that in the hopeless situation of Jobbik, because he is in a hopeless situation, there is nothing surprising. Because in Hungary, the political forces that sold their souls were never respected, at a very low cost. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: That's why they don't respect you! That's what you're gonna fail at.]] They can only blame themselves for their own hopeless situation. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-16	Thank you. Congressman Gyula Budai, on behalf of Fidesz, applied for a pre-meeting speech:. Gyurcsány supports budget fraud? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-09-17	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Csaba Czeglédy, who is the cashier of MSZP and DK, came to his new episode. As you know, in 2002, Csaba Czeglédy was already convicted of fiscal fraud, and this summer he was arrested in advance for another crime, because his criminal organization did not pay VAT to the Hungarian budget for more than HUF 3 billion, thus causing significant damage. 14 members of this criminal organization are currently under pre-trial arrest. Dear House, We are talking about Csaba Czeglédy, who is connected to MSZP and DK with a thousand threads; about Csaba Czeglédy, who is currently the representative of MSZP and DK in Szombathely, continues to receive his allowance; about Csaba Czeglédy, who is currently receiving HUF 2.4 million from Human Operator Zrt.; about Csaba Czeglédy, who cheated hundreds of students and children by not paying their work to date. [[Dóra Dúró: Have you been accounted for?]] Allow me to note here that the interest organisation representing the students has turned to the government, on the basis of which the government announced on 5 October that it would examine the possibility of having injured students [[Intercoms from Jobbik: You are on the helm! That's what you got paid for five years ago.]] Indemnify. We are talking about the Csaba Czeglédy, honourable House, who dated a $60 million luxury Audi while students didn't get their money; and we are talking about Csaba Czeglédy, whose secret safe in Austria seized over a kilo of gold. I think this fully confirms that Csaba Czeglédy and DK stood by the breast width of MSZP and DK, the merger is absolutely clear in this case, with thousands of threads attached to Csaba Czeglédy to the left [[Interviews from Jobbik's ranks, including, "Three times you tell me."]] , not only in the form that László Botka and Ferenc Gyurcsány represent legal representatives and other MSZP representatives, but also led Zoltán Készprém's campaign in 2015. I would also like to tell you that, last week, new information came to light in this telecomic, because the contract under which Altus Portfolio Kft., belonging to Ferenc Gyurcsány's interest, was published. [[György Szilágyi: Those who have been accounted for by accounting officers...]] He loaned more than HUF 80 million to Human Operator Zrt. under the control of Czeglédy, thus contributing to the continued functioning of the criminal organization. [[György Szilágyi: Were you a Commissioner for Accountancy?]] I believe that this is a clear justification for the merger between MSZP and DK arising from the activity of Czeglédy. What are the odds, my dear House? Altus runs his bank account at the same bank as where Csaba Czeglédy seized that nearly a kilogram of gold in the secret safe. In this case, the police will continue the procedure to clarify whether the seized gold is indeed owned by Csaba Czeglédy. I believe that this case is one of the most despicable acts of the socialists in the past, not because they are covering for Czeglédy or Czeglédy's hand for a minute, but because in this case students and children have been damaged or students and children have been used for party purposes. The question arises, my dear House, why the socialists and DK Czeglédy Csaba are covered to this extent, why Gyurcsány's company has provided a loan of this size of more than HUF 80 million. [[György Szilágyi: The problem is that you didn't count the Gyurcsány!]] Csaba Czegledy's company. It is also quite clear from these things that, in fact, the money that the investigating authority is earning is the more than 3 billion forints that Csaba Czeglédy's criminal organization has vanished into the party register of MSZP and DK. I think that the authorities must find out. [[11.50]] I think that the MSZP and DK should finally come forward in the case of Czeglédy, while there was indeed more information: the prosecution ordered an investigation for bribery, given that Csaba Czeglédy blackmailed the left-wing lawyer representing the Seviép victims, and offered him that if Botka wasn't attacked, he would receive tens of millions of forints. This is another development which must be clarified. Thank you very much, and I look forward to the honour of your reply, Mr Secretary. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-09-18	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary Csaba Dömötör to answer.
u2017-10-09-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, There are sad traditions of Hungarian public life, but they are already carved in stone. Such a sad tradition is that a skeleton or two falls out of the Socialist Party's closet at certain times. If you stand by and watch for a while, you can also see that these skeletons are almost scheduled to fall out of the closet, not just from the closet, but from elsewhere. It's hard to list the criminal record: there was a case of Zuschlag, a BKV scandal, a nok case, hundreds of millions in Gábor Simon's bank account, that's all we can think about right now. These were outrageous corruption cases, but, as far as we know, the socialists have not crossed the limit of harming children and young people in any case. The latest scandal, the Czeglédy scandal, is truly outrageous, especially outrageous, because among the victims we find many children, young workers. What we know so far is that the Szombathely MSZP president and his associates have lost 3 billion forints. That's why this man is in custody. Since Csaba Czeglédy operated student associations, at the worst end of the stick, we find a lot of students. They were damaged by this tax criminal while taking a huge salary from the company and getting a luxury car. In Austria, they found another gold nugget attached to it. It seems that the socialists have a strange whim of carrying their hidden funds to Austria. It's an interesting phenomenon. To date, more than a hundred students have come forward without paying for them by the socialist political company. No wonder the Association of Students' Entrepreneurship to the Prime Minister [[Anita Beringes: Lajos Kósa's friend?]] turned to the Speaker, the Hungarian Parliament, about the compensation. I think the objective to support is to discuss this scandalous matter here as well. It wouldn't be good if, like the Hajdú-Bét scandal, the scandal took years to settle. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Flórian Farkas!]] It is an important fact that Csaba Czeglédy was not a name for a local politician, but a senior member of the MSZP. He represented László Botka, who had fallen now, Attila Mesterházy, Ference Gyurcsány, on behalf of Mr.Harangozó, visited the ministries several times, worked at Zoltán Késző's campaigns, and also worked with Mr.Gőgös several times, representing the Socialists as a tax criminal. It's an extremely nasty story. But that's not all, because it turned out recently that Ferenc Gyurcsány's business had put money into Csaba Czeglédy's company in the form of a huge EUR loan. Thus an even uglier story unfolds before our eyes, so Hungarian citizens and Hungarian voters rightly ask the MSZP how you can rely on justice when billions are being removed now. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: What about Flórian Farkas, Secretary of State? Anita Beringes: Voldemort? Are they gonna make more money back home?]] How can they talk about young generations when they are even harmed by hundreds? How could they allow their leaders to put money into such a tax criminal's company without saying anything? It's all very tense, which I think the MSZP should clarify. Dear House, Since the fall of László Botka, we see that left-wing parties are lining up at Ferenc Gyurcsány to negotiate with him about the great collusion. For our part, we don't want to interfere, it's a matter of the left. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]] But since less people than Ferenc Gyurcsány know more about Csaba Czeglédy's activities, we recommend asking him to be questioned as a zeroth item immediately after the coffee about why he pushed a fortune into a tax criminal's company. Once you're there, figure out how the student compensation will be done. Unfortunately, we know that the left has little time to deal with the country's affairs, but at least don't leave the injured students on the side of the road. Thank you for listening. [[György Szilágyi intervenes. Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-09-20	Thank you. Dear Parliament, This concludes the speeches before the agenda. Péter Ágh, Fidesz; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; István Szávay, from Jobbik. I would like to inform you that there has been a motion to suspend the immunity of Mr Ákos Hadházy LMP MEP 34. Bpk. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:55 p.m., questions and immediate questions will begin. I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the Rules of Procedure 121. Paragraph 4 (a), point 124. Under the powers extended by paragraph 1 of Article 1, Márta Demeter, LMP, Member Mrs K/17426. He refused to take a written question because the motion was not part of the mandate of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, Csaba Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What is happening in the City Park? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-09-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Nearly four years ago, Városliget was given to Városliget Zrt. for 99 years with a law approved in a few days. Shortly thereafter, it turned out that the location of a gigantic construction project, estimated at HUF 150-200 billion, would be Városliget, as this is where they imagined the new museum district. However, the project, which has already consumed billions of forints, is accompanied only by scandals and failures. So far, the news has only been about the battles with the groveguards and the destruction of the trees of the City Park. The lives of the people in the area have also been miserable with the work they have done so far. All you can see is that they take away the green area suitable for recreation, recreation and sport from the people of Zugló, Budapest. At the beginning of the summer, the winner of the landscape project informed the press that the construction works will start this autumn, but there is no sign of it. According to the first phase of the park reconstruction, the construction of the dog-running and skill track, bicycle storage, new toilets and selective waste collectors should have started in September, among other things. Students of the educational institutions near Városliget held their physical education classes in the nearby Liget, where they could play sports. For this purpose, besides the Garden of the Blind, a sports area was promised, but it has not yet become anything, even though more than a year ago, Miklós Persányi was appointed Minister for the implementation of the projects of the Liget Budapest Project. With these in mind, I ask you: when will you finally begin to renew the City Park, to serve as a prominent public park for the rest, recreation and entertainment of the metropolitans, the Zuglós and the visitors? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-10-09-22	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-10-09-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it's a good time to ask you this, Congressman, because autumn will be the time when rehabilitation, planting and parking work in the Park of City Park will be spectacularly started. As you know, honourable Member, there have been a series of forums that you and many others have been asking for in the past, a forum where 118 civil society organisations, institutions and communities have had the opportunity to express their views and suggestions. Overall, 558 comments were made by these organisations, 90 percent of which were incorporated into the plans for the City Park to be renewed. The first phase will soon begin with the garden on the corner of the Dürer line of Ajtósi and Hermina Road, the building of a dog playground, sports courts, running circles, the renewal of the environment of the Museum of Fine Arts, the green surface there, and, as I mentioned, all of these will be developments in which we try to incorporate half a thousand civilian comments at the highest possible level. The replacement of the utility network has begun, the expansion, renovation of the public lighting, the creation of new toilets, the creation of bicycle storage facilities, the planting of new waste collections, and the start of a kind of renewal of the wood stock, indigenous and resistant species will be installed, and 70 new trees will be expected for those who will walk in the Liget in the next period. [[12.00]] The irrigation system is obviously important for maintaining these, and this will also be achieved. There will be an increase in green surfaces, and we have talked about this several times in this House. The proportion of green surfaces will increase from 60 percent to 65 percent in the Liget at the end of the works. The renovation of the Olaf Palme House, the foundation stone of Pannon Park was laid last week, and everyone can see the new Pavilion Garden on the Zoo Boulevard. Based on the original material of Frigyes Feszl in 1860, they became oriental-style pavilions. I think everyone can see how beautiful, quality buildings have been created. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-24	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Economic Affairs a question: "Does the Government plan to link economic development subsidies from abroad to the extension of Hungarian language use? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-09-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As a party always responsible for the issue of foreign Hungarians and prepared for Hungary's governance, we supported and welcomed the plans for economic development abroad from the outset, in addition to expressing certain doubts and concerns. In agreement with the government's position, we also see that this is an important and useful initiative for Hungarian survival and prosperity in the homeland. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to an issue on which I believe that the government has done far from being thorough. This is to strengthen the use of Hungarian language and support the use of Hungarian language. I have criticized many times that Hungarian companies operating successfully abroad, such as CBA, MOL or OTP, often do not consider the use of Hungarian subtitles and the use of Hungarian labour force to be important, although they are counting on Hungarian customers' money. Economic development programmes, I think, would also provide an excellent opportunity to support and strengthen the use of Hungarian language, which I think the government is currently not making sufficient use of. I would therefore like to make some of these proposals to the Secretary of State. Under the terms of the tender, it is not even an advantage that supported foreign businesses use Hungarian subtitles in their shops, shops, various agricultural, industrial or commercial establishments. Nor is there sufficient attention to the bilinguality of the employees of the winning companies and businesses, that is to say, that the winning applicants should have a minimum advantage, but that it is also a condition for employees to know the Hungarian language. Finally, if the supported applicant produces a product, it could be required that the packaging of the goods he produces include Hungarian inscriptions and prospectuses. I would therefore like to propose that the government consider these. I ask the Secretary of State whether the government is planning to link foreign economic development aid in some way to strengthening the use of Hungarian language. I look forward to your reply. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-09-26	I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente.
u2017-10-09-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you very much for asking. This is a case that, I think, is not enough to talk about, because a Hungarian economic presence, which has not been seen for seventy years, is beginning to develop in Hungarian territory across the border with the support of the government, and we need the support of all local actors, at least we need this support, because it is a national issue which, I think, is not appropriate to become the subject of party political battles, as has been fortunately avoided so far. Honourable Congressman, We know your personal commitment to the case of Hungarians across the border. It is extremely regrettable that this is not the case for everyone in your party, because statements such as the words of your President of Szolnok, who talks about the fact that the majority of Hungarians across the border, like North American Indians, can be bought with a handful of glass beads. This handful of glass beads was dual citizenship. I think that these are unworthy words, just as they are, that I am beginning to believe that, as bitter as it is to say this, they did not deserve dual citizenship. But we could also point out, honourable Member, that Gábor Vona, party president, did not attend the MÁÉRT conference last December, so that the leaders of the left-wing parties were fully seated there and did not vote for dual citizenship. I think that these are symbolic gestures, and unfortunately this discredits any comment of Jobbik on cross-border Hungarian issues. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] But as to the merit of the question, honourable Member, not only is Hungarian language knowledge expected, but, for example, in Serbia, where the programme is the most advanced in the Vojvodina area, Hungarian citizenship is an objective condition for applying. Thank God, we can now talk not only about plans and an initiative, as you said, but also about results achieved, because on Friday, 6 October, Péter Szijjártó announced some 30 billion Hungarian large investments in Vojvodina. I think it is important that the Hungarian language should be as marked as possible in these investments, that employees are required to use the Hungarian language, at least most of which are employed. So we are doing everything within the legal framework to pursue this common goal. Thank you again for the suggestion. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-28	Ladies and gentlemen, Márta Demeter, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the National Development Minister:. Who is lying about HungaroControl? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-10-09-29	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State, the Fidesz Federation of the Nation Foundation received HUF 320 million of public funding from HungaroControl to promote air traffic control, aviation and air transport, and to promote the maintenance of the natural environment. As early as 2016, the auditor of the Foundation indicated that the Foundation would not be able to use this money properly, since it does not have such activities. This hasn't changed since then. Mr. Secretary, in answer to my question, you said that the foundation accounted for this 320 million forints, so you used it. From this, it is clear that this could only have happened improperly. Meanwhile, Tamás László Fideszes, who is also the chairman of the Foundation's Board of Trustees, admitted to the question of journalists that the money was used to promote the Fidesz House of Citizens, which has nothing to do with the promotion of aviation and air management, which you have also designated. Although, as we see it, they may meet these goals next year, as they will fly. Secretary of State, we are talking about 320 million forints of public money, which has once again been wasted for party policy purposes. So I ask the Secretary of State who is lying now: are you, Mr. Secretary of State, or is Tamás László a Fidesz representative? How and for what exactly did the Fidesz foundation account for 320 million HUF? How could you spend it promoting the House of Citizens, when, to your knowledge, it wasn't money for this, but for promoting aviation and air traffic control? I'd like to know exactly how many air traffic controllers the Fidesz Alliance has recruited for the Nation for HungaroControl. And finally, my question is, when will this money be repaid, this 320 million forints public money with the Fidesz foundation. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-09-30	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-10-09-31	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm sorry to hear that Ron Werber is behind your words. [[Defiance.]] because with his confirmation, it is clear that the content, style and goals of the LMP have changed. By the way, your person proves that the LMP today speaks in the socialist style of socialist politicians. [[Noise in the lines of LMP and MSZP.]] As regards your question, I have answered several times orally and in writing that according to my information available, HungaroControl concluded a contract with the beneficiary in October 2016 with the fact that the beneficiary is subject to a reporting obligation until 30 June 2017. According to the information provided by HungaroControl, the statement signed by the chairman of the Board of Governors on 28 June 2017 was accepted by HungaroControl by not having been evaluated until today, so the Foundation's report was not accepted by HungaroControl, the sponsor until today. So you're going to be asking questions about an ongoing case with a loud voice and accusations. As to the basic question of who is lying, I would ask you to study Epimenides, who asked the same question about 2600 years ago in Crete, particularly in Knosos, and to this day has not been able to answer that question. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-32	Thank you. We will continue to move from philosophy to questions. Richárd Hörcsik, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy:. What does the automotive investment in Erdőhorváti mean for the development of the Zemplén region? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-09-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, For North-East Hungary and within my constituency, Abaúj-Zemplén, every investment, every job is a huge asset. If there is work, there is everything - this saying in our everyday life is proven again and again in our region. [[12.10]] Allow me to highlight only one success story: last month the Hungarian-owned Fémalk Zrt. has opened a plant in Erdőhorváti on the slopes of the Zemplén Mountains, and has recently started further developments with the aim of turning the demographic processes of the region in a positive direction. József Sándor, who is born in Croatia, does not only with the creation of jobs but also with the support of the unborn children of workers to achieve the goal. I am sure, Mr Secretary of State, that such patriotism and responsibility can be exemplary for all Hungarian entrepreneurs. I believe that it is clear from what I have said that the support of large companies is very important, especially if they invest their capital in less developed regions, such as in this case Zemplén. It is therefore a pleasure, Mr Secretary of State, that the government has provided HUF 251 million in non-refundable support for the half-billion-dollar investment in Erdőkováti. Dear Secretary of State, New jobs strengthen the success of the Hungarian economy. That is why I ask the Secretary of State: what does this investment mean for the development of the Zemplén region? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-09-34	I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2017-10-09-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The country's economic development has largely contributed to the region of North Hungary, which has already moved from the last place in 2015 to the fifth place in terms of GDP per capita. In 2017, the region expanded with a new factory, as you mentioned, by investing in the Forest Croatia. Fémalk Zrt. The founder wanted to contribute to the prosperity of his native village and to the expansion of the job opportunities of the small region of Sárospatak in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county. The new factory gives 22 people in the area a job and a livelihood for their families. This is a significant investment, since it is a small settlement area, a few hundred settlements surround this settlement as well. Fémalk Zrt. serves automotive giants, such as the BMW or Volkswagen family, in the factory of Csepel, Dunavarsány and now in the forest Croatian factory, whose direct suppliers and development partners. The government contributed 251 million HUF to the investment at the company's two premises, with the total cost of HUF 520 million, under the project of the company. With the help of the aid, a new 300 square meter industrial building was built in Erdő Horváti, a new production unit was implemented and new metalworking machines were put into work. The project was completed in August 2017. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the investment in Zemplén is one of the 49 projects to which the Hungarian government has provided nearly HUF 28 billion for a project worth approximately HUF 70 billion, in the form of a large company investment, in the course of its operation in 2015-16, thus enabling the employment of more than one and a half thousand employees. This was achieved, among other things, in Zemplén, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén and in the country with this form of support. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-09-36	Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy: on October 7, tens of millions of employees demanded the Honourable Work! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-09-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Decent working conditions! There are inhumane working conditions in Hungary today for hundreds of thousands of people. There's an unfair remuneration. It doesn't matter what we're talking about, public employment or people living on minimum wage, but even public graduates working in the public sector who work for 71 thousand forints and were kicked out of public service before that. This is the meanest thing you can do in my opinion. Otherwise, in relation to wages, the scissors open between the lowest and the highest earning people, among groups. This is unacceptable! The safety of jobs has deteriorated considerably over the last six to seven years, and work accidents have confirmed them. While the number of labour accidents decreased by 40 per cent in the 7-8 years before the change of government of 10 years, after the change of government in 2010, it increased by more than 30 per cent in the last 6-7 years. We can tell from this that it's only the man who doesn't matter, which doesn't matter, that it's the man. Everything else, yeah! Power, money, everything else does, but not the working man. A multitude of negative measures could be drawn up, from the operation of the abolished National Council of Interests, to the virtual impossibility of the strike law, even sufficient service would be offered by the courts; but in the same way, the Labour Code has created vulnerability, deprived many people, brought flexibility, but it has not reduced safety or even security. In the public sector, the salary base has remained unchanged for 8 years, HUF 38 650. This was not the case for one four - year cycle. Don't give me the answers Csaba Dömötör used to give, don't! Makes you a better answer, not a million jobs. Talk about foreigners, about the public. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Don't give me unemployment data because everyone who could have been fired was fired from the system. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2017-10-09-38	Thank you. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2017-10-09-39	Honourable Congressman, Today, for the second time, you are asking the same question with the same text, almost literally quoting what you said in your previous speech with what you said in your speech. You can't tell me anything new, nothing's good for you. You are not satisfied with anything, even for those who have found work in the past period, or who have significantly increased their wages, since every word of it is refuted by data that have been felt in the past, either on the basis of people's experience or on the basis of KSH. You don't want to hear the statistics, because it hurts you, probably. It must be said that today more than 700 thousand people work in Hungary than at the time when you gave the government coalition, you governed it. Real wages have been increasing ever since 2013, since the economic crisis that you led the country into. I'd like to give you another piece of data. During your period, during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, real wages increased by 2 percent in total. If we want to compare it to then in the period 2010-16, this means more than 20 percent, so real wages in Hungary increased by more than 20 percent in the period 2010-16. This is the difference between your governance and our economic policy and governance. While we have taken into account the interests of the people when we set employment policy directions and we have made economic policy progress and measures on them, you have not done so, the results you have achieved prove. This is also the case with regard to safety at work. There are significant controls, and if accidents at work have increased, which, unfortunately, have increased to a minimum and to a degree, this is due, among other things, to 700 thousand more people, as I mentioned earlier. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] they are working in Hungary today as in 2010. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-09-40	Ladies and gentlemen, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. How long will the renovation of road 34 remain? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-09-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, for more than two decades, one of the main political promises of every parliamentary election in the Grand Kunság is that the renovation of Highway 34 will begin. [[12.20]] The renovation of the road was not to be promised by anyone from Ágnes Vadai to Mihály Varga to Sándor Fazekas, but, as the title of the question may prove and shows, unfortunately, the renovation of the road has not happened once. In recent years, the road linking Tiszafüred to Gunnak and thus to the county seat Szolnok has fallen extremely badly, and this is more than a two-digit route, which complicates morning traffic to schools, workplaces, and even complicates the only possibility and traffic for nearly 30 thousand inhabitants of the region to reach Kátai Gábor Hospital in Karcag. Perhaps the role of the road is even more important if we consider that Lake Tisza itself is the only southern corridor of tourism as a priority destination, so the southern part of the country can only be approached by road 34, so the road is not only responsible for the well-being of everyday life, but also as a token of economic standing. The state of the road, as I mentioned, is extremely bad, not only is it full of potholes, but what is even more dangerous is the edge of the road, its curb is completely torn down in many places. The renovation of the region's most important route was, moreover, promised by the MP himself in November 2016 that the renovation of the road would start in 2017, but now we stand to see nothing of this work, the work has not been started, even though the residents have to use it every day. Thus, the questions are quite obvious, and I would ask the honourable Secretary of State to answer them honestly and truthfully, in view of the residents. When will road 34 be refurbished? Why is the development of the road already promised to start in 2017 slipping? When can we be sure that those who depart from Tiszafüred or who arrive there will be able to travel to Nagykunság in a new and secure way? Thank you very much, I look forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-09-42	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-10-09-43	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In Hungary there are 130,000 kilometres, of which there are more than 30,000 kilometres in public hands. We agree perfectly that maintaining this network of roads, keeping it at an adequate level of quality, is a great task, and obviously Karcagia and Karcag are also interested in this, and it is no coincidence that the complex road renovation program was organized from HUF 169 billion between 2016 and 2018 with a majority of the main road and lower road sections. The most critical section of the main road number 34, mentioned by you, between Tiszafüred and Guns, will be renewed through a complex road development program, the delivery of the design documentation will be due until the middle of this month, so the planning work will be completed this month, and accordingly the construction of the project is expected to begin in the spring of 18th. For the record, the renovation of this section of the road was not previously included in professional programmes. In view of your knowledge of these data, honourable Member, I must consider your speech, answering its contents, to be an attempt at the moment to facilitate the investment needs and opportunities of the party's owner. I think this is not worthy of the legitimate needs of the Karcag people, nor of the serious work that the Hungarian road-building institutions have done and are currently pursuing. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-44	Ladies and gentlemen, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. What does the Chinese railway bring and what does it take? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-10-09-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The government recently announced that the Orbán Cabinet will spend 1500 billion forints on rail development by 2020, but they forgot to add that two thirds of that amount will be spent on a single project, the Chinese-Belgrád railway line, called the Chinese railway, with the participation of Chinese companies. This will be the new silk road leading to Europe, the most important route for the delivery of Chinese goods, which, in our view, is a disadvantage rather than an advantage. The dumping of Chinese industrial goods has already destroyed European and Hungarian light industry and retail trade, and the Hungarian economy hardly needs new waves of Far Eastern goods manufactured by circumventing labour and environmental standards. Hungarian companies have no role to play in the implementation, and we have only the burden of repaying the loan. The European Commission is now looking into the incomprehensible business because you are once again trying to smuggle non-EU actors into the European market by circumventing EU rules. We are sure that the government has already prepared the preliminary impact assessment required by the current legislative law. Please confirm the economic interest of the construction of the railway in question with data from this study or from other sources. How much is it for taxpayers? How and how long will it take to pay off? And what is the reason why one of the largest Hungarian investments is intended to be transferred to foreign companies again? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2017-10-09-46	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-10-09-47	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Budapest-Belgrád railway line will be built. It will be built because it is an important part of the North-South direction; because it is an important part of the relationship between the two capitals; because it is an important part of the railway line leading through Pireus to Europe, not just to Budapest, but to Europe. The additional consequence of these is that the project opens up new opportunities for Hungarian-China economic relations, which is accompanied by an increase in domestic investment, an increase in the number of domestic jobs and an increase in the economy, including the increase in export rates. I believe that the construction of the Budapest-Belgrád section of this North-South railway line cannot be criticised from a professional or economic development point of view. As regards your criticism of the political content, I would just like to point out that tenders for public procurement have not yet been published. So as to who's gonna win what here, who's gonna do what, there's no reason to assume anything like that. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I started by saying that the Budapest-Belgrád railway line will be completed, it will be built, contrary to your programme, which plans to raise taxes, which, in addition to the tax increase, aims to restrict social support. This is completely different from our program, and I think this is worth more than an assumption of such political content. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-48	Ladies and gentlemen, Károly Panczél, representative of Fidesz, would you like to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade a question:. The German software developer is preparing to expand significantly? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-09-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As the number of strategic partners of the government has increased in recent years, my constituency has also been affected, as Coca-Cola Hungary was among the first, later Schwarzmüller Kft., and two weeks ago the Hungarian government concluded a strategic partnership agreement with the Hungarian subsidiary of the German SAP software development company SAP Hungary Kft. SAP is the world's largest business software and cloud IT company, which has invested a total of HUF 14 billion in Hungary since 2010. Last year's turnover of your subsidiary here exceeded HUF 28 billion, it already employs more than a thousand employees, which it intends to expand by another 300-400 in the next three years. [[12.30]] The Hungarian government supports investment in R &amp; D and the creation of jobs with high added value with a significant tax discount. This will be done, among other things, by building a high-speed national internet network and supporting so-called fifth generation solutions. Dear Secretary of State, Today, the government's critics are forced to acknowledge that investments are growing spectacularly, real earnings are rising at an extraordinary rate, unemployment has virtually disappeared, GDP growth is rising above all forecasts. But these critics always add that this is only a temporary condition; every year it is added, and although they have never been right before, it does not seem to bother them at all. Does SAP's investments not prove that one of the most innovative companies in the world, whose activity is based on highly skilled, highly productive labour force, trusts the Hungarian economy and the Hungarian government? I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-50	Thank you. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente.
u2017-10-09-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Over the past few years, we have developed an investment and business environment and have developed investment incentives that make our country extremely attractive to high added value improvements, as is now supported by external studies and expert opinions. This is said not only by us, but also by findings which cannot be accused of a positive bias towards Hungary in the least. These show that Hungary is now at the forefront of the world in terms of the value added of new jobs created, preventing innovative economies such as Sweden and Singapore itself, which are well known for producing added value. In addition, a number of measures have been taken to ensure the availability of a sufficient amount of and quality workforce and to create a world-class digital environment that is essential for development, which serves our efforts. In the area of these developments, for example, we are moving ahead of the European Union, as we can now be sure that by 2018, the 30 megabit/second internet will be created with 100 percent coverage throughout the country, which will be one of the fastest in the world. The fourth largest software company in the world, the German SAP, with its subsidiary in Hungary, we have strengthened our cooperation with the agreement signed on 28 September. The company has made billions of domestic investments in recent years and has brought its global cloud information support centre to Hungary, as Mr. Over the next three years, the company plans to increase its current number of nearly 900 people by 300-400, and I think this is a worthy proof that we are on the right track to attract and preserve such jobs in Hungary. I am counting on further support from honourable Members and ladies. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-52	Ladies and gentlemen, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Why doesn't he raise his word so that anyone who wants to play in Hajdúhadház can play? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Mihály Varga, Minister of National Economy, who is responsible and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr Péter Cseresnyés, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-10-09-53	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Hajdúhadház won HUF 400 million in non-refundable EU funding. The new sports field and playground built with this money has been handed over in recent years. In recent days, several news channels have reported that while children were playing for free in the playground, in the sports facility, changes have occurred since then, the first thing that should have been paid to families for 500 HUF per child was that after the scandal was discovered, the municipality wanted to do so with a registration. As the county of Hajdú-Bihar, we know what problems there are in Hajdúhadház, we know the composition of the settlement, and we know those problems. But, Mr. Secretary, this playground and sports facility was built specifically to provide segregation of children with experiences and sports opportunities. In other settlements - and I will give you a good example - this problem is solved as we do in Kaban: the playground is closed, the playground is opened at 8:00 in the morning, depending on the season we are in, after a certain time - in a autumn season at 6:00 a.m. - it will be closed. There's surveillance all day, and there's no problem. I think the biggest problem with this is that everyone's under the same roof as the mayor, he wants to put everyone in that box, that if one, two or three families behave badly and harm this playground, they're gonna drag everyone into a united state that everyone behaves like this. I think we're going in the wrong direction. This problem could be solved very nicely. My question, Mr. Secretary, is whether you can't go against the invitation to tender is that you won't let the children in there and you wanted to raise money for this institution. I think they have a responsibility as Secretary of State and Ministry, that this process could have been stopped, and that it would not have come out as harshly as it has been in the last few weeks. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2017-10-09-54	I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2017-10-09-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The social urban rehabilitation project in Hajdúhadház is implemented primarily with the aim of increasing the status of the action area affected by social regeneration, slowing down and reversing segregation processes. The aim of the development is to integrate the part of the city into the city's socio-economic bloodstream, both with infrastructure investments and with activities to strengthen local identity and community formation, which are based on intense demands for sport. In addition to the development of urban rehabilitation project elements and sports facilities, the project also included the development of the playground. The project has been implemented and is currently in a maintenance period. Last week, the press reported that they were charging admission fees for the use of the playground. In order to clarify these news, the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministry of National Economy shall examine the proper implementation of the project in the framework of an audit. If the project owner has not carried out his project according to the contract, he will have to take into account the consequences set out in the procedure, which will be satisfactorily clarified by the investigation. Of course, since this is about money, and it's about putting people with a tougher fate at a disadvantage or putting people at a disadvantage who want to raise money at a disadvantage, I would like to mention that they wanted to introduce a visitation fee at the time when you were in government without examining whether everyone could pay it or not. [[Interventions in the ranks of the MSZP: Now health care pays! If you don't have money, you don't have care. You're going halfway!]] I would also like to refer to the fact that, while they were in government, you have tried to introduce tuition fees twice in higher education, and both have been foiled by the resistance of voters. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-56	Ladies and gentlemen, Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy:. What can you expect from the Opel factory in Szentgotthárd? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-09-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As a Member of the Parliament of Szentgotthárd, I am interested in the employment opportunities in the region, as people in the southern part of Vas county also deserve to have decent jobs at their disposal. Jobbik's Wage Union initiative aims to achieve a gradual and substantial wage catch-up, because at present there are huge differences, and it is enough to look only at neighbouring Austria. In addition, the maintenance of existing factories and plants is also essential. Unfortunately, this time we have read bad news about Szentgotthárd. Opel's new owner can lead the old engines of the car brand out of the market, which could also call into question the future of the company's Szentgotthárd plant - wrote daily.hu a few days ago. In the future, the French PSA, the new owner of Opel, will deliver all of its cars with its own engines, because it will have to pay a licence fee for the use of technologies developed during the US GM Regency. According to one of PSA's managers, all Opel will be developed in Germany, but they do not want to do the same job twice. At the same time, they try to get rid of the license fees payable to GM, but they still haven't decided what will happen to Opel's own engines, so they don't even know what's waiting for Opel's engines like Szentgotthárdi. Needless to say, the decision could have a catastrophic impact on Szentgotthárd and its area, as in the event of engine production, many would lose their jobs. There is no decision yet, but there have been ominous signs before. [[12.40]] In fact, PSA's promises did not apply to the Hungarian plant, but only in relation to the German and British interests they made commitments that there would be no redundancies. Of course, I know that the essence of the answer will be that we do not have any meaningful room for manoeuvre in this area, but there are opportunities. Stakeholders expect the government to grab these, because everything must be done to protect jobs. Dear Secretary of State, During previous successes and enlargements, they tried to bathe in popularity. Now, when there's trouble, do you take action? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-10-09-58	I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2017-10-09-59	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, I'm glad you'd like to answer your question for me, but I'm not going to give you the answer you just told me, I'm going to give you something a little different. Especially because I would like to tell you that, in the absence of certain information, speculation is capable of panicking. Please refrain from providing such information, as we do not know any specific plan or measure on the part of the French party, which would jeopardise the operation of the factory. So, please consider what you are saying, because words, especially those spoken in Parliament, have serious weight. But how much these words weigh, let me quote a few thoughts from one of your 2011 and then 2014 election programs. The 2011 election programme discussed the excessive presence of multinational companies. Then, in the 2014 election programme, it was written - I quote: "The activities of the multinationals in Hungary have also caused a number of other collateral damage. A second quote reads: "The model of global capitalism, built on the free movement of multinational capital, has failed. So if it were up to you to set up, expand or maintain the Opel factory, if you had the power to shake so much, could you have the Opel factory shut down with government measures? [[Tibor Bana: What are you saying?]] What I'm asking of you, after the last piece of information, is that the company has a stable order file for the next year, so as not to cause panic, don't say anything that doesn't have any real basis for it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-09-60	Ladies and gentlemen, Erzsébet Schmuck, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources, whose interests are the forced displacement of the Fotian children's town? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-10-09-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, At the beginning of this year, it was announced that the Fotian children's town would be closed. The official reason is that they want to eliminate all untimely institutions. On this basis, a declaration is planned to be signed with former workers of the children's town, still living in its territory, who would have been given up their housing rights, even though, according to the original contract, they could have lived in service homes in Károlyi Castle for the rest of their lives. The children who live there are placed in various child protection facilities, which are already overcrowded and give the castle in the middle of the children's town a real mansion function. Earlier it was suggested that the castle would be given to Lőrinc Mészáros, and at present it is the Hungarian Horse Therapy Association Foundation. The social manager has been asked for a list of projects to replace children's homes from EU sources between 2016-19, which do not include Fóti, but also mentions the need to provide the activities provided for there in new locations in 2018. It is clear that the Fót children's home is being ejected out of order and will be completed in 2018. At high speed, nearly half of the children were found in the area of the Aszód correctional institution. They will be located in a 48-seat building, which will be renovated from domestic sources of HUF 416 million. Whose interests are the forced ejection of the Fotian children's town? What kind of agreement did you make with the Horse Therapy Foundation? How do former employees settle their housing situation? And why are unaccompanied minors placed in the territory of a closed correctional facility? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2017-10-09-62	I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2017-10-09-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You have spoken of decisions, honourable Member, which have not been born, nor have they been born, since we are far from here. Therefore, its conclusions cannot be correct. The clear direction of government in all similar institutions in Hungary is that institutions that are not built as children's homes are large, crowded and not ideal for children's home functions, we would like to replace them with smaller institutions, in which young people can grow up in much more familylike circumstances. Create housing homes for up to 12 people, for example, that a HUF 5.8 billion framework will try to provide in the coming days. Or, for any facility, the number of young people staying there should not exceed 48. This is a trend accepted by everyone in Hungary, elsewhere as well. I think the LMP, too, when it comes to its calmer moments, considers this to be an important objective, as they do so elsewhere. From this, it seems to you alone that Fót is an exception, and it is not a good place for young people to move to more familiar, smaller-scale places, even though he can take into account the characteristics of child care more optimally. Where exactly are young people going to move out of this large institution, you have advanced it, but no one in Hungary can say so confidently except you, because it is a very long process. Not necessarily one, you may need more locations to do this, but this will certainly result in space development and quality improvements. The Fóti Károlyiak Foundation also operates in the Fót children's centre, the Fót-Central Reformed Church, the Fóti Free Waldorf Association, which maintain kindergartens, schools and restaurants. So this is a more complex situation. We will obviously want to settle the situation of all residents according to the rules of the Housing Act, but these are not decisions that can be taken from one moment to the next, unless the interests of children are fully satisfied. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-09-64	Ladies and gentlemen, István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:. You're the word, Congressman.
u2017-10-09-65	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I asked you a question once before. There is one reason why I would like to hear specifics about a Prime Minister's promise as people living in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County. This promise was made at a visit to Satmar Germany, and it concerned a commitment on behalf of the Hungarian government to turn the area into the M3 motorway with a motorway section and a motorway road stop. I think it is unnecessary to describe what a highway means to businesses, to the people who live there, to those who are trying to move from Partium or Transylvania to Hungary, to businesses, to businesses that deliver their goods or goods to Hungary. It was very important to reach Nyíregyháza on the M3 motorway, and now later to reach the area of Városnámény, the industrial facilities appeared along the motorway sections. I think that the benefits can be measured not only in jobs, but also in the safety of transport and freight transport. I also have to say that it is not minor to find connections in the border areas of Hungary, in particular in Partium and Transylvania, because I see that this region is passing by Hungary as if it were passing by in a running direction in terms of industrial development. Just look at the industrial park in Oradea. I think all Hungarian city leaders would lick their ten fingers if the park were in his city with so many jobs and so much modern technology. So my question, Mr Secretary, is how this project stands, what will be the fate of this project. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-10-09-66	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-10-09-67	Thank you very much. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, The network role of the M49 motorway connecting the Csenger area to the M3 motorway is indisputable, and I would like to confirm this to your previous question. Accordingly, implementation has been and will continue to be part of our plans. This intention was confirmed by the Prime Minister's statement quoted by you. Please reassure the Szabolcsi: Hungary's Prime Minister is today not called Ferenc Gyurcsány, but Viktor Orbán. I ask that the promise be treated accordingly. By the way, National Infrastructure Development Ltd. started the preparation and planning work of the motorway, the feasibility study, the environmental impact study was completed, for which the Authority issued an environmental permit for the phase up to Highway 491. [[12.50]] However, Congressman, you know very well that a border crossing point requires the consent of the Romanian party. I do not want to say the wrong number, as I recall, this border intersection has been established in the Romanian-Hungarian Joint Committee for at least four to five years. I am pleased to report that, following previous declarations of intent in principle, recent opinions at expert level have already been made towards practical implementation in recent days. At the moment when this Joint Committee, in particular with the agreement of the Romanian Party, finally establishes a border crossing point and is implemented by the Romanian authorities through their own administrative procedure, there will be no obstacle for the Hungarian party, as has not been before, to the rapid development that you have rightly advocated. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-68	Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior a question: It's an address. By answering this question, Prime Minister Zoltán Balog, Minister of Human Resources, who is competent and competent according to the subject, has been appointed. At the request of the Minister, Mr Bence Rétvári will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-09-69	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Recently, I asked the Ministry a written question about how it could have occurred that the drinking water in my constituency in Bácsalmás was not suitable for both washing and cooking. The answer to my question showed that, as a result of the complaints in March, the operator had already taken the necessary measures, which supposedly eased the problem in Bácsalmás, improved water quality and fewer complaints were received. However, I have to deal with this answer with reservations, because if not with the public health department of the Bács-Kiskun County Government Office, I have unfortunately even recently received a complaint about this. In any case, we can call it reassuring that the situation in Bácsalmás is supposed to be in the process of remedying the situation, but that is why I have to speak again here in Parliament, that, in view of my question, the people in the constituency have reported similar experiences. There have also been complaints about the quality of drinking water in Kelebia, Tiki and Tompa. Like the baachalmas, many in these settlements have identified drinking water as yellow, unpleasant, and undrinkable. Dear Secretary of State, I appeal to you with the question of how the number of complaints to the public has recently developed in these settlements. How can people who live there feel that water from the taps is of inadequate quality? I also ask whether improvements in water quality can be expected in these settlements in the near future, whether any measures have already been taken to improve drinking water supply. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-09-70	I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári.
u2017-10-09-71	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You and your fellow Members have also submitted similar questions to this important question in writing, and there we have also tried to give you a more thorough, broader answer, and I am trying to do this for you now. As far as Cichéria is concerned, this belongs to the district office of the Bács-Kiskun County Government Office. No complaints were received by Kiskunsági Víziközmű-Szolgáltató Kft. until 6 October. As regards the district of Kiskunhalas regarding the quality of drinking water in Kelebia and Tompa: Kelebia did not have a complaint to the public, but there was a complaint in Tompán in April 2017. The water quality assessment system, the information system for human use waters - shortcut: Humvi - examines both chemical, bacterological and biological parameters. The results were reviewed from 1 January to 6 October 2017. The results of 10 self-checks and 1 official sample of water from Kelebia are available, and they are certified accordingly. There were 12 samples for bluntness, one for the authorities, the other for the operators. There were minor differences in two parameters. On 4 May 2017, the Authority subsequently issued an order requiring the operator to review the technical system. They took three steps after that. On the one hand, a network cleanup with a sponge stopper took place, after which the old public drains were replaced, and on the third, the network was disinfected. In two cases, 10 samples were sampled with official control. There was an objection here in one case. Kiskunsági Víziközmű-Szolgáltató Kft. it provides an exemption technology for iron, manganese, arsenic and ammonium. It was argued that in many cases the internal pipe system has grown old, and therefore plastic pipe constructions have taken place here. At the same time, they did not pose a quality risk to human health, and the provider tries to keep the residents informed on TV and in newspapers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-72	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Sallai R. Benedek, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Office a question:. What about you, Balaton? It's an address. By answering this question, the Prime Minister has appointed Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent according to the subject. At the request of the Minister, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, will answer the question. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-09-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, As Lake Balaton, we cannot forget that it is a large lake, which is the largest lake in Central Europe, as the largest lake in Hungary, as a characteristic landscape for centuries has a self-regulating hydrographic, self-regulating ecological background, and has retained all the values that still make it valuable; as it is still dominant in these cultural and natural values, for example, it is only in the second place in the country in terms of tourism revenues to this day, and thus clearly these revenues, landscapes and this background are decisive for the people living there. Basically, the Balaton Act is a law that has not been enforced for years, but is a major threat to the cultural and ecological value of what is present with Lake Balaton in Hungary and has not achieved any previous objectives. The previous objective, specifically laid down by law, is not to make 30 percent of the beach available free of charge to the community. The privateisation and expropriation of more and more coastal land is taking place, more and more private investors have appeared, two years ago in Balatonfenyves and its surroundings, and this year in Zamárdi there is a meter of mud covering the coastal environment. This is not a coincidence, since incorrect hydrographic interventions have contributed to all of this. What plans does the government have with the Balaton? What does the Government plan to comply with the Balaton Act and the Government decision defining the Balaton grants? According to the news, this legislation would be amended. What's that supposed to mean? What about the HUF 360 billion development resource that was previously targeted in this area? What about the illegal luxury improvements, such as the private yacht port in Balatonfenyves, which could have contributed significantly to the destruction of the surrounding beaches? There is the sailing port designed for Siófok, the car park directly designed for shore in Balatonföldvár, and the accompanying phenomenon of railway development, the construction of noise protection walls that destroy the view of the shore, which destroy the fundamental right of the locals to the image of Lake Balaton. How will all this be accomplished, what will happen to it, and what are the plans of the government? I expect your reply to this with respect. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-10-09-74	I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-10-09-75	Thank you. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I've been thinking about where I heard those sentences last time. From this you can see that the LMP is learning, I thought I was discovering socialist sounds from a fellow Member, and now I have heard specifically the accusations made by Jobbik in earlier years within these walls. By the way, using domestic and European resources, the government specifically aims to make Lake Balaton a four-season tourist destination. For this purpose, nearly 60 beaches of 33 settlements have been renewed from domestic sources, the service supply is expanding, and for this purpose the government has provided a non-refundable development of more than HUF 2 billion. The first phase of the building development design of Kisfaludy has started, the effect of which will be felt at the beginning of the 18th century. Developments such as medical applications, world heritage sites, the projects of the initiatives developed in cooperation with the Balaton Uplands National Park have been submitted, they are in the preparatory and evaluation phase and will be completed in the next one-and-a-half-year period. [[13.00]] As regards the accessibility of the shore of Lake Balaton, the 43 waterfront rehabilitation study plans for the use of coastal areas were already adopted between 2004 and 2006. The settlement plans have identified areas suitable for the implementation of the coastal promenade, but the socialist governments have not taken one step towards this. In 2012, a study was carried out on the amounts of compensation and expropriation necessary for the implementation of the coastal promenades, to which the government had planned some 2 billion. We are interested to see this project implemented as soon as possible to achieve full Hungarian audience access. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-09-76	Ladies and gentlemen, Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, would like to ask the Minister for National Development:. When would you like to continue the renovation of the panel apartments in the Havana housing complex? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2017-10-09-77	Mr President, Thank you very much. After the change of government in 2010, the panel program basically stopped completely in Hungary. In Budapest, the XVIII. in the district, in my own constituency, I mention only one housing estate, there are several, but there are a lot of them all over Budapest, as well as in the country. There are over 20,000 people in the Havana colony. On a daily basis, residents complain that since 2010, they have not been able to apply for virtually any housing modernisation program, in any way, to contribute to a real reduction in their rent, nor to increase the value of their homes. (The President's seat is Mr Sándor Lezsák, Vice-President of the Parliament.) Now everyone knows and it is clear that the European Union would have given a great deal of resources to make Hungarian people modernise their own apartments, and there would have been a source for that, but unfortunately, the government has spent this money on something else. We all know that if there is an investment that really helps people living in residential areas and modernising their apartments, that would be heating modernisation. I would like to ask you whether you wish to continue and when the government will continue its heating modernisation programmes for the population at all. Thank you very much. [[Dr. László Cook applauds.]]
u2017-10-09-78	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary János Fónagy.
u2017-10-09-79	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Support for the renovation of industrialized panel housing was launched by the first Orbán government between 2000 and 2002. Socialist governments have always been happy to talk about panel programmes, as millions of people living there are a major voting base, but no money has been provided. I would just like to remind the representative and the whole Hungarian public that the socialist governments announced a large programme before 2010, but without any funds, they did not provide money for it, so that after 2010 the Orbán government completed the tenders they had issued. The government is also committed to reducing the spending of people living in condominiums. From 10 to 14 he paid nearly 50 billion grants to improve energy efficiency and technical safety in residential buildings, with the help of which he was able to invest in energy efficiency in the homes of some 235 thousand families. In the framework of the competitive Central Hungary operational programme and the economic development programme, the energy renovation of the panel dwellings will be supported with a budget of nearly HUF 120 billion available from 24 February 2017. For energy modernisation planned by individuals, condominiums, housing associations, there are 430 points of interest to be requested to be refunded across the country, with around 24 thousand households being refurbished under this loan scheme. I ask you to evaluate my answer in the light of these numbers. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-09-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:. Why are they sneaking about the solar cell factory in Csorna? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2017-10-09-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! There's a lot of suspicious questions about the solar cell factory planned for the Csorna city border. Tens of thousands of Hungarian citizens have been waiting for answers. By the way, the plant should have been operating for two years, the walls are standing, the production technology, which would obviously be the biggest investment, nowhere to date. I tried to take advantage of my parliamentary representatives and asked three ministries about the matter, but no meaningful response was received. I mean, what's coming is very conflicting with the other ministries. Now my letter to the Attorney General says they're investigating. Seeing the kesemous business net, the investors involved in the brokerage scandal and the suspicious businesses associated with you, the case is getting worse and worse, but the number of questions is only increasing. I will also ask Mr Secretary of State a few questions here to explain them now, because, as I said, we have only received conflicting answers from the three ministries so far. What will be the fate of the HUF 1 billion awarded to the factory as state aid? What will be the fate of the HUF 2 billion also awarded from EU funds? What about the 7 billion forints of ex-bank credit? How much of this has the company used, how much hasn't it? What guarantees have they given this company any kind of support, seeing the very suspicious background circles? Are you deliberately or negligently committing such a dilettious treatment of public money? Have you started an internal investigation? If so, why couldn't we have known the result? The local Fidesz shouldn't be attacking the press when it's interested in the case, but, let's say, at least bring the part about them to light. Speaking of which, Mr. Secretary, have you thought about apologizing to the locals who have been badly deceived? After all, this Fidesz had the biggest election promise on the ground, and, as I said, production is still nowhere, no technology. Why do they even say it's a XXI? Are you going to set up a company plant there? It is clear from the plans that they didn't really think of that. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-09-82	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2017-10-09-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, EcoSolifer Modulgyártó Fotóv Technológiak Kft. under one project, it received about HUF 1.9 billion in funding and the amount was paid to the applicant. I can provide the following information on the status of the project, the current situation of the ongoing procedures. In July 2016, NGM initiated an irregularity procedure for which the beneficiary commented. In view of this, the Ministry extended the procedure and the investigation is ongoing. In the event that the irregularity procedure is concluded by a finding of an irregularity, the Ministry of National Economy may order the recovery of the aid amount affected by the irregularity. The contract relating to the grant granted in the context of an individual government decision was signed in June 2014. The sponsor has imposed strict conditions in the contract, which he has done in the interest of responsible management of taxpayers' money. The amount of aid may be paid only if all the conditions laid down in the contract are fulfilled which have not yet been met, so that no payment of that amount has been made. But speaking of sneaking, honourable Member, I would like to say that you are in a party financing scandal and will never give any explanation for this. Not to mention that Hungarian pensioners were repeatedly violated a few weeks ago, they were not yet apologized to, as you just asked the government for an apology. You have not apologized to pensioners, Hungarian voters. What is this, Congressman, if not this sneaking? [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-09-84	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office a question: "Will there be a forest privatisation? It's an address. [[13.10]] On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Sándor Fazekas, Minister of Agriculture, who is competent and responsible for the subject, will answer the question. Congressman Sallai Benedek has the floor.
u2017-10-09-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In 2001, when the polls presented the fall of the first Orbán Cabinet, state wealth, national wealth had already begun, such as the dirty twelve. That is why, given the similar social process we see now, that the polls do not yet indicate, but you already feel that you have to fail, so I'm a little afraid of what else you want to take home. My biggest concern is the issue of the 22 public forestry holdings that I have also addressed in my question, as there are many indications that the privatisation process of these state forestry economies seems to have begun. After Fidesz has been leading this far and has done particularly well in privatisation matters, I am concerned about the fate of these forests. We are talking about our country's most important natural resources, a national treasure that houses national parks in the context of forest areas and provides livelihoods for many families, both within and outside the state forest farms, as subcontractors for those living in such a place of residence. At the same time, either the previous statements of János Lázár, or the specific legislative initiatives, or the direction of the amendment of the law on the management of assets in the legislative plan, or the almost order-like criticism of the Office of Government Control about the operation of state forest farms raises the fear that they will not do the same thing again as they did with the dirty twelve in 2001, that what is very valuable will be returned home. That's why, Mr. Secretary, you can calm me down with one sentence, and I don't care about anything else. If you say that neither the forest areas nor the public forestry have prepared a privatisation, and there is no government plan, whether now or later, that would allow me to accept it perfectly, it will reassure me, and from then on I would ask nothing else about it. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2017-10-09-86	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Nagy.
u2017-10-09-87	Thank you very much. Then it will be very simple, because where do you think you are going, Mr President: no, there is no such plan, no government intention to privatise public forestry companies. The 2011 CXCVI on national assets. Law doesn't even give you the opportunity to do that. It places forestry companies under a ban on alienation and loading by including forests as a national asset of national importance for the national economy. The investigation referred to in the question of its representatives has not yet been completed in respect of all 22 public forestry companies and its official results are not yet known. Although you might think that you are seriously concerned about Hungary in the countryside, you should see that in your Facebook entry on 1 September you call your own home village, I quote, a bored dirt. How do you feel about that, Congressman? How do you think you can be credible in the questions of rural Hungary or Hungarians? With regard to its classification as a change to the forest law, I note that the new forestry legislative environment meets the challenges of age and climate. As a guarantee of sustainable forest management, it will continue to ensure that forests remain in the forest site under the planned conditions and that forests fulfil their intended purpose. Moreover, the law remains one of Europe's strictest forest laws. Once again, I must say to your question that the state's forest assets must serve a Community purpose, and that there is no privateisation. I hope that you have received the correct answer to your question and acknowledge that the Government is not seeking any privatisation of forestry. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties. Sallai R. Benedict intervenes.]]
u2017-10-09-88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Lajos Kepli, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of National Development:. Privatize Balaton Shipping Zrt.? It's an address. Congressman Lajos Kepli has the floor.
u2017-10-09-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Since the autumn of 2015, I have asked your Ministry several times, and personally you have been asked both orally and in writing by Balatoni Hajózási Zrt. Worried about his fate. It is well known that the owner's municipalities will now expire their capital injection in October, which jointly and severally obliges them to raise capital in Balatoni Hajózási Zrt. So far, Siófok alone has indicated that he is willing to pay his own share, some 700 million forints, but the Siófok city administration and the other owners are concerned about what will happen if they pay this capital contribution, and then, according to the news, as the state is about to raise capital, the 12 billion forints or some of that which the government is planning to deliver to Balaton, puts in the company as capital contributions; the ownership of the municipalities will fall below 50 per cent, and they will not have a meaningful say in the rest. The state itself will determine the future fate of the Balaton shipping, perhaps privatizing it to a Fidesz-near entrepreneur or oligarch. This issue has been raised several times, since it is a highly valuable portfolio, a highly valuable company, a company, and recently this issue, the question of privatisation, has been raised only because the company has suffered a capital shortage and not only the HUF 12 billion to be invested by the state, but also the involvement of private capital has been mentioned several times. True, this has never been confirmed from an official location. Therefore, I would like to ask the Secretary of State and I expect a clear answer as to whether there is such an intention on the part of the government at the moment that a private owner is to be involved in Balatoni Shipping Zrt., and the extent to which the increase in public ownership will be, if there is, and what will happen to the current ownership authorities after this capital increase. I look forward to your substantive answer, thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-10-09-90	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy.
u2017-10-09-91	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, you have asked this question several times, so I looked at your earlier statements before this reply, and from 2013 I found an entry about the press conference you held on your website called the Simickas taking up the Lake Balaton. This proved to be a self-realizing prophecy by the fact that this gentleman didn't invade the shore of Lake Balaton, but you. [[Lajos Kepli intervenes. Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] Honourable Congressman, I think we agree that Balaton is important for all of us as a major tourist destination, and within this, sailing in Balaton is an extremely important thing. By the way, the government has not changed its original intention for the current owners to solve the problem. Therefore, the current autumn 2017 deadline for recapitalisation, also mentioned by you, was extended by the Government until 31 March 2018. So the current owners have practically another six months to take action. At the same time, and I believe you do not dispute this, the sailing in Balaton is very important for the whole country, and therefore its functionality and an improving quality of service are examined by the government by a dog's duty. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-09-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Sallai R. Benedek, representative of May Other Politics, would like to ask the Minister of the Interior:. What progress is expected this winter in the area of social fuel supply? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek has the floor.
u2017-10-09-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Although I do not know how the answer is; I see that if the State Secretarys are constantly reading only the Facebook pages and websites of the opposition, then it is no wonder that the government is not progressing. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We can do both, imagine.]] But obviously this is also a topic where they have something to miss, which I would like to ask you about, because in line with the question raised, I would like to know specifically how they intend to meet the demand of the settlements concerned with the social firewood programme, which is more than 2 thousand settlements, one-and-a-half times the demand. About 6 billion claims have been made by the affected municipalities, only the settlements below 5 thousand have been affected and 4 billion will be spent by the government. Unfortunately, it does not use energy to make it not a firewood with water or a high moisture content, but to give it what is being cut freshly. Therefore, the question arises as to whether the real needs have been assessed at all. Has it been assessed whether, let's say, in settlements over 5 thousand, there is no social class that would also need such support with this background? [[13.20]] Why does the government provide only two thirds of the needs received and simply waive the rest? On the basis of our previous proposal, the quality requirements for the available fuel will be specified. Despite our proposal, why hasn't there been a fund for the acquisition and support of modern heaters? What are you going to do to prevent, like last winter, a village of Hungarian citizens from dying in the cold again out of mere negligence by the government in dealing with abandoned families and elderly people in rural areas? And why can the needy only get social fuel for a small part of the heating season in mid-February? What happens until February? So you already know there won't be winter until then? Do you have any background information that supports the fact that there is no need for such a demand in Hungarian rural areas until February? Obviously, we are also talking here about a lot of Fidesz municipalities on the subject, so I would like to know how they can help settlements under 5 thousand, or what plans are made for these types of social needs of settlements over 5 thousand and how they are trying to remedy these shortcomings. I expect your reply to this with respect. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2017-10-09-94	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás.
u2017-10-09-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, If you study the municipal law, you are aware that municipal subsidies, such as the maintenance of housing, the livelihood, the provision of this type of aid, are entrusted to the municipalities, the responsibility of the municipalities, and the municipalities are usually given the necessary budgetary resources in the fiscal law. The municipalities have the possibility that if their social support, the social support that they can use, would be higher than the amount provided by the Budget Act per municipality, they could apply for additional support. This was done by 190 municipalities out of 3200 municipalities this year, and they received these grants. The Social Fuel Programme was launched in 2011 at the initiative of the Ministry of the Interior in order to enable them to manage winter social fuel supply in areas with small settlements, small-income settlements, where it is difficult for them to manage winter social fuel in scattered farm areas. This is the social fuel framework, which was HUF 1 billion in the first year, and this has increased steadily. Obviously, as the amount increased, it also generated an increasing demand, as the municipalities could also give fuel to people who were not in a crisis, but this programme, I repeat, is basically for those living in a crisis situation, so the border is below 5,000 inhabitants. I would like to inform the honourable Member that we provide the source, that it is the municipalities who organise the distribution. We require that local authorities buy and use wood of sufficient quality from state forest farms and registered forest farmers. The distribution of firewood by municipalities through other programmes is clearly their responsibility. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And they have to decide whether it suits the needs of the residents. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-96	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy a question:. The population vision of our country in terms of migration. Why, then, does the government reject the union? It's an address. Congressman Csaba Gyüre has the floor.
u2017-10-09-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, According to the recent research of the DreamJobs employment portal, 1 million of Hungarian employees would like to leave the country for a better job. That's a hell of a deal. It is particularly serious that already more than 600 thousand Hungarians, according to other sources, live in western EU countries, and one in six children, Hungarian children, are now born abroad in these countries. It affects my narrower Patria, the county of Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg, where wages are the lowest in the country and unemployment is the highest. In particular, young people aged 18-29 would go abroad again in bulk, and for the main reason low pay and poor working conditions were named, but they also lack development opportunities and flexible working hours at home. This unprecedented emigration has been the responsibility of the last 27 years' governing parties, including, in particular, the current governing party. For example, in the spring, Fidesz's proposal for a labour code, which was known as a slave law, and although it was withdrawn due to national resistance, clearly demonstrated the attitude of the current governing party to Hungarian workers, which places Hungary's competitiveness on vulnerability and low wages. On the other hand, Jobbik believes in living and competitive wages, and that instead of ostrich policy, it is finally necessary to find a solution to the huge problems affecting wages. This is why we have launched the Wage Union initiative, which can be a powerful counter-opinion for emigration and the resulting national disaster. A real national government would certainly stand behind such an initiative, but that is not what happened. I ask you this: does Fidesz-KDNP take seriously the anomaly between Western and Eastern Europe's wages, the fact of mass emigration and the threatening social disaster? If so, why doesn't he support the anti-remediation union? I look forward to your substantive answer. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-09-98	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés.
u2017-10-09-99	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Despite the constant alarm of the opposition, all serious international statistics show that migration in Hungary is still not considered high in the region. I've got a statistical statement in my hand. [[He's showing it to me.]] The latest UN data is being studied, according to which we have the lowest employment rate in a large area in the area, which is much higher than in Hungary. The government does not support Jobbik's EU wage initiative because it does not consider it a suitable tool for raising Hungarian wages and bringing them closer to Western wages. The government has been and will continue to use all possible means to bring Hungarian wages closer to the level of wages in developed EU countries, but it is still our strong position that it is not through EU instruments, measures, but through the development of the Hungarian economy, and by increasing productivity that it can be established and based on it. The government continues to take the view that the determination of wages should remain national, and as a result, real wages in Hungary have increased by 24 percent in the past period, from 2010, if the tax benefits of the family support scheme are included. In the last 7-8 months, this increase has been more than 10 percent real in Hungary, and by 2022, if this process continues, we can have 40 percent real wage growth. So we believe in the work of the Hungarian people, the growth of the Hungarian economy, unlike you. You, who recently burned an EU flag or threw it out the window, now want to entrust the European Union with raising Hungarian wages. We want the opposite, we trust the Hungarian economy and the work of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This part of the agenda will be closed and a very short technical break will be held. [[It's a short break.]] [[13.30]] Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with immediate questions and answers. László Szakács, a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Is this democracy for you? It's an address. Mr László Csakács has the floor.
u2017-10-09-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Another would have basically given the topicality of this issue, since it would have been because of you that parliamentary meetings could not be held last summer or this summer, and now they do not come to committee meetings, and therefore the committee meetings are indecisive, but by the time Prime Minister got here, the question of whether this democracy is really this is a new one. After that, in Pécs, you jumped to a level to break down democracy. To sum up, there is a mayor in Pécs who has lost government politicians, as well as the government's goodwill, and there is no longer the state of grace that you've always helped out the city leader of Pécs. Zsolt Páva will be disgraced, the Members of Parliament, Péter Csizi, Péter Hoppál MEPs formed the Fidesz Party Committee in Pécs in a city in bankruptcy. Since then, of course, I have asked all State Secretarys, all ministers, what they think about this, what they think of democracy, or what the laws say about whether a mayor can be replaced because there is no trust in it. In fact, everyone was running away from this question, like a contagious disease, and I got these insightful answers that were actually trying to avoid or spread this question. Therefore, for two reasons, I must go to Prime Minister. First of all, the reason I didn't get a straight answer from your government was that the three government actors who were speaking said three different kinds of things, even whether they wanted to carry the assets of Pécs or not, they couldn't even say a straight line to that. And the other is that, Prime Minister, you, who previously fought as a brilliant young politician in 89-90, fought for democracy to form a party committee in a city with county rights? That's my question, Prime Minister. Thank you.
u2017-10-09-102	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2017-10-09-103	Honourable Congressman, You can get more good advice on the party committee in your own faction than I do, so you're gonna have to deal with this one over there. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I was so sure of that.]] What I can tell you is this. You were talking about Pécs. As a result of the policy of the MSZP governments, the total Hungarian government debt increased six times between 2002 and 2010. This massive debt was taken over by the Christian Democratic-Fidesz government from the municipalities between 2011 and 2014, thus stabilising the financial situation of all Hungarian governments. This means no less than that we have freed more than 2 thousand Hungarian settlements from debt of HUF 1369 billion. What I can tell you, honourable Member, is that you should not worry: if we have been able to eliminate this gigantic debt mountain that you have inherited, then we will also be able to deal with the issues of Pécs. Thank you very much for asking. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-104	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'll give the floor to Congressman Cook in return.
u2017-10-09-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Prime Minister, My news is that you probably didn't, because you consolidated the city of Pécs in 2015. Then the mayor of the city of Pécs, Zsolt Páva, who has been disgraced since then, said that the city has a debt of HUF 2 million, since then again 7.5 billion, and then we do not even talk about what the companies owe. They say it's 24-26 billion, and they don't dare disclose it, Prime Minister. They're back in the same place, but they've only achieved that result in two years, with nothing built next to it in Pécs. Pécs was a large city with a regional central role, a cultural capital of Europe, which has now lost 15 percent of its population, lost 22 percent of the university students, and what you promised is that industrial park is emptiness, a 290-acre KRESZ park with nothing in it. This is not Pécs' breakout point, and you cannot solve this problem. But I would ask you, is it right for a party committee of parliamentary representatives to lead the city instead of the mayor? Thank you for the floor.
u2017-10-09-106	Thank you, Congressman. The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2017-10-09-107	Dear fellow Member, I'm asking you not to underestimate the results that the Pécs have achieved in recent years. I know that you always see evil from opposition before good things, but these good things still exist, and even if it has something to do with the government at all, the good things are primarily due to people's efforts, so I'm just going to mention that the locals have successfully taken back their local waterworks from foreigners. [[Dr. László Kács: It cost three billion.]] They've taken back the local waterworks from the foreigners. We managed to settle the high-rise situation; we put new buses on the market; we continued to build the M60 road, which will soon reach the border; and we also built downtown. Anyone who walks in Pécs can hardly deny that. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What about the party committee?]] I can only repeat that the government is on the side of the people of Pécs, and it will help. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-108	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Gábor Vona, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The campaign has started. The Prime Minister's relationship to sport. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman Gábor Vona.
u2017-10-09-109	Mr. Prime Minister, I've got good news and bad news. My bad news is, you obviously don't like me asking you. It's when he responds with a selection of rude things, but the thing is, I'm gonna ask. But the good news is that until April 2018, since from then on you will no longer be Prime Minister of Hungary, I will not ask you in this capacity. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You will then have to count on other kinds of questions of a different nature, Prime Minister. But let's get to the point: you, Prime Minister, are very, very fond of watching sports, and for that reason I am asking you whether you consider it to be sporting in the way that your party is turning into this campaign at the moment. Do you consider it sporting that your people are constantly destroying the posters of other parties? Do you consider it sporting, Prime Minister, that in order to silence the only remaining power of government, opposition force, Jobbik, you are attempting to use illegal means to use the State Audit Office, government offices, police, prosecutors, basically everything? Do you think it's sporty, Prime Minister, that you're so afraid of me and my party? [[An uproar on the pro-government side.]] By sending us paparazzi, hackers and media hyenas? And in the end, do you think it's sporty, Prime Minister, that you've run out of courage with Jobbik, that you don't dare stand up to a public debate, but rather try to ban Jobbik? And, Prime Minister, please, I beg you not to come to me with György Soros, and not to come to me with Lajos Simicska. I've told you many times that neither I nor most of the country are interested in your obsession. Neither I nor most of the country are interested in your personal wars. The question, Prime Minister, is whether you can still fight in a sporting way. Do you have any other arguments? Or are you left with mud wrestling and stumping? And my question, Prime Minister, is will you ever be a Democrat, or will you leave Hungary as a burnt-out despot in April 2018? That's the question. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-09-110	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2017-10-09-111	Mr President, Dear fellow Member, What I understand from your rumours is that your party is a hopeless party, sold its own party to a billionaire for the sake of power, and apparently the voters don't like it. What you have said here today is a rather desperate attempt by a hopeless party, in this room twenty-six times, to attack the ruling parties disguised as questions, slandering me personally, and now even using sport as an excuse. [[13.40]] The only thing I can tell you about this party financing and poster is that the government doesn't deal with this issue, everyone can solve this issue, and I think that you are simply lame. Thank you for your attention. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2017-10-09-112	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Vona in return.
u2017-10-09-113	Mr. Prime Minister, Who insults the other is worth looking back at the words of these speeches, then he will realize that he was wrong. But, you know, Prime Minister, 15 years ago, I basically started my political career by inviting you personally into your civic circle. I was there for a year, and then I quit because the Jobbik became a party, and I felt like I should be there, but I've been watching you ever since, and I'm watching you now, and I'm telling you honestly, Prime Minister, believe me, I've learned a lot from you. [[Intruder from Fidesz: You can't see it!]] I have learned a few things about how to handle it, and I have learned a lot more about how to avoid dealing with political situations. And, Prime Minister, do you know the greatest lesson in your career? That a political leader can't lose his dignity. And you, Prime Minister, have lost your dignity. You're no longer interested in people, not wages, not pensions, not young people, not emigration, but you know what you're interested in, Prime Minister? His little stadium, his little train and his big money. That's all you care about. And it's both unworthy and sad, Prime Minister. Undeserved! - that's what I can tell you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-09-114	Thank you, Congressman. The Prime Minister shall have a rejoinder.
u2017-10-09-115	Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear fellow Member, You've been here twenty-six times with morals. All I can tell you is that ever since you sold your party, everyone can see that you have a leash on your neck, the end of the leash in the hands of the owner, and while you are giving moral lectures in the Hungarian Parliament. That's absurd. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-116	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél and Márta Demeter, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "Where is the Orbán plan?" It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2017-10-09-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Gentlemen, let's talk about the point. [[Mr. Moraj, there's a crack in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Mr. Prime Minister, You are constantly playing war, but I want you to know that the real fight in this country is not for you, but for the Hungarian people. Because most Hungarian people are very hard to live in Hungary now [[János Lázár: You must know that!]] And they're fighting hard. You don't feel it, and you don't feel it, but these people are fighting hard for their children, for their families, for their jobs, for their livelihoods, and often for their health. And these people cannot expect your help, Mr Orbán, Prime Minister of Hungary, because you clearly do not focus on the everyday problem of everyday Hungarian people. You are talking about some kind of Satanic Soros plan, but this is not what the Hungarian people expect from a responsible government. The Hungarian people expect the plan to get them out of the pit, so that we can get the country out of the pit, and with which we can finally enter the XXI. It's a century. And as far as I can tell, Prime Minister, you don't have such a plan. Because what are the real problems in this country? I see families fleeing from public education. I can see there's a wage crisis in this country. What I see is that the Hungarian people cannot make a living on their wages, the economy is understaffed, and I see that health care is ruined. What can the current Prime Minister of Hungary answer to the question that during his administration, the number of hospital infections has doubled? What can you say, Prime Minister, that in Hungary, single-use devices are constantly being recycled in hospitals, and they have no money? How do walls fungal and rats fall from the ceiling? These are the real problems, Prime Minister. That's what we're interested in, not the Soros plan, not the statements of his thugs. You, Prime Minister, are responsible for the safety of Hungarian people in Hungary. How can you account for the ill-being of your constituents? !
u2017-10-09-118	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2017-10-09-119	As for the thing that you do not like to hear about the Soros plan, I understand that. [[Interventions from the opposition: You are a part of it! There's no such thing!]] you were the programme manager of the Association for Asylum Migration and were part of the Soros network as part of the humanist program. You don't want to hear about this, I understand. [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Who was the scholarship student?]] However, as far as your question is concerned, the number of employees has increased by 724 thousand since the change of government in 2010, the minimum wage will be nearly 88 percent higher by 18 and the guaranteed minimum wage will increase more than double, we have made HUF 500 billion in health care and HUF 400 billion in wage development. Since 2010, 77 hospitals, 54 clinics, 97 rescue stations, 23 new clinics have been renovated. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] And we built 30 new rescue stations. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Fortunately, everything is all right.]] In the 2018 budget, there will be HUF 220 billion more for healthcare than in 2017, and next year's budget will receive some HUF 100 billion more for education than last year. Thank you for the words of appreciation. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-120	Thank you, Prime Minister. In return, I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2017-10-09-121	The Prime Minister of Hungary could not answer the question of what he would do by doubling the number of hospital infections, the dropping of rats from the ceiling and the fungal walls, and the recycling of disposable appliances and equipment. But you didn't get a good look at my résumé: you can see that I also worked at the Central Statistical Office, and that I can appreciate the numbers you have read, because that was my profession, Prime Minister. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] However, I think that once and for all the Hungarian people deserve a leader who deals with them, their real problems. What do you need? Excellent education, working health care and good wages. And that's my plan. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Because we all see on this side that the king is naked, Prime Minister. And I can see precisely that you can still enjoy the majority here in the Hungarian Parliament for a few months, and you can abuse your own power here, because outside, beyond the walls, we are mobilizing people, and as Prime Minister, as a candidate for Prime Minister, this is my personal mission, and this is also the mission of the entire opposition.
u2017-10-09-122	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister.
u2017-10-09-123	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Well, why would you choose this complicated method of disguising the program ad as a question? Well, he would've told me to give you the few minutes that I've got here, and you're going to read your program. We would have listened to that, and we wish you luck. Thank you for listening. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties. A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]]
u2017-10-09-124	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, György Balla, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. Where did Jobbik suddenly hang 5 billion forints? It's an address. [[Dóra Dúró: This is not the government's jurisdiction!]] The Minister appointed Mr Pál Völner as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Congressman György Balla has the floor.
u2017-10-09-125	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It wasn't that long ago, so we can all remember what Jobbik was lying about in his first poster. They had three statements. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Are you asking us?]] they rented a few hundred posters from Lajos Simicska, they did it at market prices, and they financed it from credit. Then it turned out it wasn't a few hundred, it was two thousand, not a market price, but a tenth of that. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] The fact of borrowing is not disputed. It is clear that this action is exhausting both illicit party financing and tax evasion. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] It's worth a mass, but let's not look at it now. Let's take a look at what's going on with the latest action. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Tell me.]] I would like to quote the classics, one of Jobbik's prominents:. These wallagges are all placed on advertising tools purchased by Jobbik. For the time being, we will resolve the financing without taking credit, with our own resources, from the state support we have provided. The specific amount is part of a business secret. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, A few months ago, he was able to purchase posters purchased at a low price from Jobbik's credit. [[13.50]] That means they don't have a penny. It takes a few months and posters are purchased at market prices from their own sources. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not so complicated: if a poster's rent is HUF 40,000 a month, then a ten-year return is expected to mean that the 1100 poster space that you own is worth HUF 5 billion 280 million. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: You're a genius! He went to math school!]] That's the market price. The question is how Jobbik hung 5 billion HUF 280 million in a few months. [[Dóra Dúró: You're very curious, aren't you?]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-09-126	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2017-10-09-127	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Where Jobbik got 5 billion forints is very difficult to find out, because Jobbik's operation is not transparent. [[Németh Szilárd István: Ask Simicska!]] Due to the failure to comply with party financing rules, the SAO initiated an investigation into Jobbik at the DA's office. Hopefully the truth will come out and we won't be meeting another Czeglédy case. [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks. Interview from Jobbik's ranks: Relax, it's six months.]] where there will be a billion-dollar VAT deficit in connection with this unclear transaction. The question can therefore be approached from both sides, on the one hand, whether there has been prohibited party funding, for which Jobbik has to answer. In the Criminal Code, appropriate penalties, penalties of two or three years may be imposed on this crime, or, if Jobbik is indeed a squad with no assets and no money, how the tax obligations have been met if they have not paid the purchase price. But it can also be seen that Jobbik's desperate actions are driven by a fall in popularity, as they try to stay on the surface again, as I see, not only have they won a master and a sponsor in the seller's person, but also an activist. [[Delight and applause in the pro-government benches.]] who practically replaced them last night by taking on extra tasks and encouraging additional people to do this. Returning to the basic problem, Jobbik cannot seriously believe that transparency rules can now continue to be violated as an established parliamentary party. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks, including Fidesz! You can steal, you can cheat, you can lie!]] You must obey the law and abide by the law. Hungary is a rule of law, if they do not do so, the competent authorities, acting properly, shall demonstrate what the activity was and shall have the appropriate consequences. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-09-128	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman György Balla for a rejoinder.
u2017-10-09-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Hard!]] Ladies and gentlemen, There's only one thing from this poster shop that's clear. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: For you!]] Lajos Simicska bought Jobbik hair and skin. Today, it is not your thoughts, but the thoughts of Lajos Simicska play either on a better poster or on a private poster or on the poster of Lajos Simicska [[György Szilágyi: Put the Soros into it!]] I don't care if it's a poster for you. The thing is, if I saw the last good-looking poster right, he was pinging it with his own hands in Veszprém. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: What did he write on it? Defiance in the same place.]] Since then, Jobbik has given up all its principles. They are laughing now, my fellow Members, but the thing is that Jobbik is going to wink to the left and is going to get together with Ferenc Gyurcsány. How could that happen? Beyond that, President Vona, Jobbik can do anything for money and power. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Intercoms from Jobbik: Say the Fidesz! What about you?]] The thing is, you have to find a way to change your name, because the President of Jobbik was once called Zázrivecz, and today Simicska. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks. György Szilágyi: Agent! Agent!]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-09-130	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State shall also have a rejoinder.
u2017-10-09-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In connection with Mr. Congressman's suggestions, party financing or tax and budgetary fraud are indeed serious crimes, but if we think about the social and political consequences of how many listed seats Jobbik will have in the next elections in exchange for these grants, where will political life go if money can buy into billionaires? [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's it! Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] Or just getting their own people in there, what orders you're gonna carry out, what you're gonna do in government... The other thing I would like to suggest is that if the right-handers can't answer these questions, they can't guarantee transparency now, what kind of government Hungary could expect if this fantasy really worked, which is what you're trying to scare us with. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. Interjections in the same place: Oh, my God!]] Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-09-132	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Gergely Bárándy, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the President of the Hungarian National Bank an immediate question with the title "Friends, Friends, and Others." Congressman Gergely Bárándy has the floor.
u2017-10-09-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The last time we had a chance to talk to each other about what we were doing here in Parliament was in May. Since then, the following scandalous events have occurred around you. His cousins bought the brewery in Pécs and immediately got a good order, became the official suppliers of the water world. In the spirit of their anachronistic attraction to castles, the bank of his cousin gave credit to the company of Flórian Farkas' former driver to buy a castle at the XII. in the district. But your cousin is helping your son with the market. After the furniture factory, he got the Origo news portal in the summer. Doesn't your family have anything to do with the Origo, Mr. President? ! To make your son's business profitable, he spent a billion and a half forints on the MNB advertising campaign, a significant part of which just landed at your son's company. But of course, young talents need to be supported, so Ádám Matolcsy's furniture factory also received nearly half a billion forints of EU funding. I'm sure the MNB will grant the 300,000 monthly scholarship to Balázs Hidvégi, the communications director and his wife of Fidesz in support of young talent. And the loans. He must have needed a discount VIP loan from the Vice-President of the Hungarian National Bank, because he only takes 9 million forints a month, and now he wants to buy a luxury apartment for your girlfriend, his wife. And, well, experience is also important, we know, Mr. President, which is why the MNB's employees traveled four times in Jamaica in three months. After hard work, of course, you also need to relax, so the MNB provides 190 million forints as a sports grant to its employees, and while they are playing sports, they also need the charter machine to travel out to their home tournaments. In order to create decent working conditions, they bought wool carpets and a six -piece collection of furniture for over 23 million. Unfortunately, you have so many scandals, Mr. President, that you won't be able to take two minutes in a sketch, so I'll be back the next time I see you, but I'm asking you, Mr. President, do you think that's all right? Thank you very much.
u2017-10-09-134	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to President György Matolcsy.
u2017-10-09-135	Thank you very much. Your Honour, Prime Minister. Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I expected you to deal with relatives. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I did!]] And I would have been happy to answer your question about how many relatives there are, because for us, who are believers, we have 7.5 billion relatives on Earth. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] For the Lord, the Creator, created everyone as a relative. [[Morai and the public in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Compared to that, you've been pretty narrow about your list. Allow me, honourable Member, to continue by saying, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I understand you're not dealing with me, you're dealing with the market economy, the market economy in which there is a central bank. The staff of the central bank do their job, for example travel [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: to Jamaica! Jamaica! Dr. László Kács: Economy!]] By the way, it's not a charter machine, because it's another one of those little falsity things that you usually allow yourself to do. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Well... - but the employees of the central bank's foundation and subsidiary are of course doing their job, so the facts you described are within the scope of the market economy. Thank you very much. [[Morai and the public in the ranks of opposition parties. Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-09-136	Thank you, Mr. President. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy in return.
u2017-10-09-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry, I can't stop laughing, but George Soros is a relative of yours, and I'm glad to hear it. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]] In any case, Mr. President, according to your good habits, you have not responded to anything meaningful in the world, and, you know, this kind of cynicism that you allow yourself from time to time is particularly outrageous when scandals come out of your closet every day, and that's not so funny at all. Today, according to press reports, two and a half times as many people work in the MNB as they did a few years ago, and in five years, salaries increased seven times in the central bank's decision-makers. [[14.00]] With your cheekless monthly salary of HUF 5 million, I hope there will be a severance pay as soon as possible, which you have raised for yourself. [[Dr. György Matolcsy: How much did yours make?]] We know that you feel assured, Mr. President, that after your wife, you've taken the daughter of the Attorney General to the MNB. For the record, this is also the scandal of the past six months. But that won't always be the case, since you won't answer, in case your coworkers do. I will ask you these questions in writing. Finally, allow me one sentence, Mr President: I do not want to believe that you think that you are printing the money for yourself in the central bank. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-09-138	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder is due to President György Matolcsy.
u2017-10-09-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honour, Prime Minister. Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We've heard another series of fakes. Not twice or twice as many people work in the central bank because the number of employees in the central bank increased from 1080 to 1400. [[Deterioration in opposition benches. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: And the foundations?]] , which you are all involved in, since the tasks of the Hungarian National Bank have been extended. Moreover, supervision has been integrated into the central bank. Once again, I can tell you that this is another central bank. You obviously have a problem with that. This is not the central bank that predicted a loss of HUF 203 billion in 2013, which, if it had remained the old central bank management, many people would have used to keep Hungary out of the excessive deficit procedure. This is another central bank. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You stole the money from the Feds! Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] Only this year will we contribute 600 billion HUF to the budget's interest rate results. So this is the central bank. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-09-140	Thank you very much, President Matolcsy. Dear Parliament, Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: When do you switch from the international capital side to the Hungarian employees' side? It's an address. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi has the floor.
u2017-10-09-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, Over the past month, more data has come to light that, to put it mildly, do not support the government's economic success. Eurofound has prepared a report on social mobility, which examines the chances of a person acting on the social ladder according to his abilities today in Hungary. Hungary is the last place in Europe, which shows that Hungary is an unjust society, built almost on a caste system. While the government talks about Hungary becoming a start-up centre for Europe, the European Commission has managed to catch one of the last places in its ranking and innovation ranking, while it turns out that in 2016 we are spending 30 percent less on research and development. On the list of competitiveness of the World Economic Forum, Hungary is constantly slipping down; three factors are mentioned: corruption, untrained labour force and failed tax and contribution policies. A recent study has been published, Prime Minister, which examines the average Hungarian wages in relation to the average German wages, and this shows that between 2010-15 and the second and third Orbán governments, Hungary has slipped from one third to one quarter of the average German wages in terms of gross wages. Mr. Prime Minister, We are convinced that the solution is the Wages Union. We do not expect Brussels to determine wages, but we expect Brussels to set the target, to change cohesion policy and to define a more effective and targeted set of criteria. And we expect you, Prime Minister, to give this country a new economic policy for domestic businesses, for more competitive SMEs, for the eradication of corruption, for a new tax and contribution policy, for a new education system. Mr. Prime Minister, Your constituents are also in favour of this initiative. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It would be nice if you could write down one last hairpin in your life and support what your [[The president's ringing again.]] Its constituents also support me. Thank you.
u2017-10-09-142	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2017-10-09-143	First of all, if I may, Mr President, my honourable fellow Member, all I can say about a hairpin bend is that Jobbik is now in Brussels calling the bureaucrats on the issue of wages, which previously burned an EU flag or thrown it out of Parliament's window. Who's talking about a hairpin bend? [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: They haven't brought him back since.]] The second thing I would like to say to you: I have tried several times, but I see from your comment that I have failed, I am doing another attempt: when I talk about positive processes in the country, I am not doing a success propaganda because I always start by saying that, of course, it is okay to have a country with a stable government, but the performance that is visible in this country [[Tamás Sneider intervenes.]] It's because of the effort of the people. And when you deny these positive processes, no one says that there is a canaan flowing with milk and honey in this country, but who denies these positive processes, let us say that we are close to full employment, or that in the six months behind us, there was a real wage increase of over 10 percent, who denies these things, it does not criticize the government, it does not dispute the results of his work from the government, it denies the country, it attacks people. I understand that money and power are important to you, but why must we attack the Hungarian people? Why should the results that people have achieved be taken away? In this sense, I will stand against Jobbik and always on the side of the Hungarian people in the future. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-09-144	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi in return.
u2017-10-09-145	Mr. Prime Minister, I can't help it if you live in a parallel world, it's only your environment and you. Our Wage Union initiative is an initiative above parties and ideology. We've taken up a case that we believe is a national matter. I know you can't appreciate this, because you and the Socialist Party, with whom you've run this country in a transition economy for the last 27 years, have been interested in sharing society, and that's what your power is based on. In the rejoinder, please do not come forward, Prime Minister, that you want to give up the sovereignty of Jobbik Hungary with this initiative. That the European Union is as it is, Prime Minister, you have a very high responsibility. We did not vote in December 2007 for the Lisbon Treaty, which created the European Union as it did. But you didn't fight when you were supposed to, but now you're fighting with the European Union on all kinds of matters that could actually serve our national cause. On these issues, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We must fight a real war of freedom, Prime Minister, now! [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-09-146	Thank you. I give the floor to the Prime Minister in return.
u2017-10-09-147	Mr President, I've heard this word composition called "the parallel world" several times. I just want to remind everyone that the issue of wage increases has not been decided by the government, but an agreement has been reached. Those who came there came from the real world. The employers who employ people and pay their wages came to the table. The trade unions who represent the workers came and fought to make the wages as high as possible. The government sat down, and together we agreed on a wage increase for the next few years. What parallel world are you talking about? Why are employers and workers criticized? What has happened is that in the case of the biggest possible wage increase, an agreement has been reached which, in terms of scale, has never been known in Hungary before, between trade unions, employers and the government. I think it's a good thing. This is why wages are rising in Hungary. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy intervenes.]] Who thinks he is going to Brussels, where the multinationals are going in and out like we are on the market, and there he is going to make a wage increase, now, in a parallel world, my honourable fellow Member. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-09-148	Thank you, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] It says yes. Mr László Szászfalvi has the floor.
u2017-10-09-149	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The development of health care systems, taking into account the needs of users and workers, has identified the establishment and introduction of an electronic health service space by the government and has set the objective of making this system available for public health benefits from 1 November 2017 and for non-public health care benefits from next year. [[14.10]] Therefore, a secure IT system has been built from EU support, under the supervision of the consortium led by the State Healthcare Supply Centre, to create a single communication space for them through the interconnection of healthcare providers. To do this, we had to implement HUF 7.2 billion IT development in 191 public-funded health institutions, which meant the provision of 10,000 IT tools. This year, the service space test has already started, making patient data available to supply institutions, general practitioners, pharmacists and emergency services. Dear Secretary of State, As a Christian Democrat representative, I consider the development of the health care system to be a priority. In the new system, which includes patients' right to data management, all relevant information about the patient can immediately be available to the doctor, who we hope can provide a more accurate diagnosis. Treatment can also be more personalised, faster and more effective, avoiding repeated unnecessary tests, which can enable more cost-effective operations beyond the patient's comfort and faster recovery. Therefore, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State what the experience of the trial period has been like so far, how the new system will help the health system as a whole. I look forward to the Secretary of State's honour's reply. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-150	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-10-09-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, With the introduction of eHealth, our aim is to ensure that patients' recovery is supported by all IT tools. We bought various state-of-the-art medical devices worth more than HUF 100 billion, but it is also important that if a patient comes before a doctor, all the information that has been generated about him in the last five years - and will be produced in the coming years - should be available, there should be no lost artifacts, no lost recipes, no diagnosis that a doctor may not be able to look at when it is necessary to make a decision within seconds, and there may not be time to send the patient for more and more tests. Therefore, it is important to allow patients to receive much more personalized, much faster treatment. Everyone's data, whether drug-related or diagnosis-related, will be placed in this electronic space, and this has been done, as you have mentioned, from spring this year to mid-August. They were involved in hospitals, general practitioners, pharmacists, it was a sharp test run, everyone could follow the different stages of this. When I look at patients, 8574 of them entered this electronic space and made various modifications and declarations. During the trial, 400,000 recipes have already been issued as e-recepts, and 400,000 supply documents have also been included in this cloud system. This means that we have been able to test this in a fully sharp operation and that incorrect data has not been entered into the electronic health space, but these documents are now available digitally to everyone. So far, 4722 GPs, 2705 pharmacy and 315 inpatient and inpatient establishments have entered the system, joined the system. This means that between 75 and 80 percent of healthcare providers are ready for all data to be provided in this way from November onwards and for all data to be provided. If someone doesn't go into the pharmacy with the recipe now, [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] but only with his ID and his Taj number or just his e-ID, he gets these drugs the same way. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Szászfalvi in return.
u2017-10-09-153	Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. I think that the most important thing is the service of Hungarian people and Hungarian families, that Hungarian people get fast, comfortable and secure services in all areas. I think that the introduction of a single IT system is also a very important tool, a very important programme to achieve these objectives. Despite all the opposition's alarms, it is clear that many very important results have been achieved in health care over the past six to seven years, many important positive processes have been launched: the hospital developments already mentioned, which have amounted to 500 billion in the last seven years; the wage development programmes, which have been implemented in a budget of 400 billion, and this current IT development is also a very important part of the renewal of health care. It is hoped that if it becomes available everywhere, there will be no disadvantaged areas or disadvantaged people in this area. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-154	Thank you, Congressman Szászfalvi. The Secretary of State shall also have a rejoinder.
u2017-10-09-155	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It was also an important aspect that hospitals, pharmacists, and clinics should not have to complete a completely new IT system, rather than learn a new system. Therefore, we have built the system by connecting it to the IT systems running there, so we do not need a new interface, we do not need a new learning process. It is also very important that for those who want to replace their recipe in the pharmacy for their next year, say, their neighbor or mother, father or relative, with a prescription certificate, they will be able to do so, so if the patient does not go to the pharmacy, but some other friend, familiar, relative, which is obviously customary and replaced in many places, then, of course, the paper-based prescription certificate in which he can replace the medicine can now be taken away by the patient. We think it would be a big failure if we did not use the most modern technical tools to cure patients, so it is important that all documents are available in this area, and that no one can lose any documents, prescriptions, or any previous diagnosis that are relevant for saving lives. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-156	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ákos Hadházy, representative of "May Other" Politics, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who is right?" It's an address. Congressman Ákos Hadházy has the floor.
u2017-10-09-157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, I was happy when you said a number. He said they made HUF 500 billion in health care. The problem is not that the European Union gave this money, but that roughly half of it was stolen. I would like to set such a concrete example, which I am not setting, but one of your organizations or one of the state's organizations, the Public Procurement Committee. They wanted to buy breathing machines, and the State Health Services Center put out a public procurement, and they got four offers. Three of the offers were about 1.7 billion forints, and one of the offers offered by a non-frivolous company was GE - the top-class breathing machines of General Electric - what God gives, and then it was 800 million forints cheaper, about 900 million forints, so he would have given these appliances for almost half as much. The State Health Care Center quickly wrote a small thing, a small thing that is not medically absolutely justified, and it may even be harmful if the machines know this parameter. He put this in quickly, they ruled out General Electric's ventilator, and the state said that he didn't need half the cost of the ventilator, it would be good for him at double the price. About 800 million forints would have jumped from health care. GE filed an appeal, and the public body - this is a public body, so Ákos Hadházy does not tell the LMP - says that this was irregular, and the Public Procurement Decision Committee also destroyed this tender. What's interesting, and what I'm asking you, is that when you're asking the Minister who's giving you advice on this right now, [[János Lázár: He doesn't need help... shut up!]] He said whoever did this had to cut off his hand or cut something off. Don't call me that, Minister. [[It's a lot of noise. János Lázár: Excuse me. Shut up!]] The Secretary of State, on the other hand, said that everything was fine here and that he was attacked, that he was legally attacked. Who's right? The question is whether the Minister is right or whether the Secretary of State is right. Was the procedure right here or was it wrong?
u2017-10-09-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. [[14.20]]
u2017-10-09-159	Ladies and Gentlemen, What just happened here is extremely serious. We don't even feel how serious it is at first. There really is a debate, a public procurement debate, it's going on, it's open. The government constantly takes the view that we need to get machines that are best for patients and hospitals. We do not know exactly how this debate will be decided, this is an open debate. He stands up in the Hungarian Parliament with a representative and lobbying one of the companies. How much money did you get for this? What do you think you're doing? ! How do you expect to lobby in the Hungarian Parliament in an ongoing public procurement procedure? Well, it's the most corrupt case -- I've been sitting here for a few years -- I haven't seen it. Shame on you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-160	I give the floor to Congressman Ákos Hadházy for the rejoinder.
u2017-10-09-161	I expected that the Prime Minister would not understand what I was saying, because it has happened more than once. I still don't think you understand what I'm saying. I don't understand this case either, to be honest. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] You have commissioned the Szecskay Law Office, one of the most expensive law firms in the country and in the city to represent the state against the state so that the state can buy respirators for about twice as much money. Once again, when you asked your minister about the details of this procedure, the minister said that you had to cut something off for whoever did this. Then they asked the Secretary of State of Rétvári, who said that everything was fine, and they ran to the most expensive lawyer so that the state could sue the state to buy these appliances for double the money. For 800 million forints, there could be a lot of ventilators missing. If you don't get sick in Budapest, even you might miss this device. In any case, I suggest a solution between the two ministers or the secretary of state: they do not need to be cut off, but that they should be put in prison for sure. Thank you very much.
u2017-10-09-162	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister.
u2017-10-09-163	I suggest, Your Honour, that you investigate the matter. It is an impossible thing that an elected Hungarian Member of Parliament is lobbying openly and wanting to influence decision-makers in an ongoing public procurement, in addition to a foreign company. I'm gonna need an exam. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-164	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Which is the real face of Jobbik? It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári has appointed Secretary of State to respond to the public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2017-10-09-165	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2017-10-09-166	It says yes. Mr János Pócs has the floor.
u2017-10-09-167	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Even though President Vona stole or rather sold the soul of Jobbik, under the cute powder, we still have the old face of the party, the real face. This face, however, is now not looking at the former traditional extreme right enemy image, but at the retired. After President Vona gave an unacceptable opinion on pensioners, the party's supporters poured oil on the fire. To the point that Jobbik is desecrating the memory of the dead. A video recently appeared in the Jobbik press, where an old lady came to sing at an old day's event. There was also an article for the recording, in which the aunt was teased. In Jászladány, the elderly woman who sang at that time, in 2014 was ill. Not only did he, but everyone knew that he would never sing in front of the audience again, he would never do it again. Unfortunately, he passed away that year. God rest his soul. The obscene comments to the article showed that everyone knew that the recording was old and that the lady on it was no longer alive. Yet Jobbik's party media did not shy away from using the recording to discredit, mocking an elderly woman's political creed, desecrating her memory. But it's not just the sound of a better audience. The jazz leader of Jobbik found the dirty comments generally funny and liked the post. In addition, instead of removing it, Mr. János Volner spread the video, even though it was clear to outsiders that he was desecrating the memory of a dead man, as Mr. Group Leader Volner did in his comment. Mr. Secretary. Why could pensioners be on the target of the betterman, and how does the government stand up for them? I look forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-168	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-10-09-169	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The style is the man himself, keeps the old Hungarian saying. And so it is, if a party leader can afford such a style against elderly people, pensioners, then indeed the party's representatives and members of the party will do the same. If everything is a political product for a party and it comes from the fact that it could be bought by itself, then obviously it doesn't think anything else about voters, they can be bought too. Indeed, many were shocked that Gábor Vona, the president of Jobbik, remembered our national celebrations, that on weekdays dear uncles and aunts jumping out of each other, wanting to shed blood with their trembling hands, yell at me in rags, and growl at XX. And then he goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on, and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and All the parts of this, when you talk about trembling hands, when you talk about small shopping carts behind you, are obviously all symbols of the kind of disrespect and contempt that are obviously unacceptable to a man of good sense. And even at Jobbik's polling camp, the majority of these well-informed people are in the majority, because the majority of Jobbik's voters believe that Gábor Vona should apologize for these statements. When home political scientists came and said that this was a thoughtful plan to mobilise young people, that young people should be radicalized and not pensioners, unfortunately Jobbik's calculations do not work in this area, because most young people also believe that this is offensive to older people, despite the explanation of this by home politics. That's when a couple wants to be a little bit more fun than Gyurcsány, when they want to insult someone every day, or lure you behind them with a Facebook post, but they just go very, very wrong, and they also discredit the party. Most recently, when the Jobbik is trying to put behind the voters who have fallen from the MSZP with Marxist principles, this is a pitiful example of capping. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2017-10-09-170	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs in return.
u2017-10-09-171	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for your answer. We can see from this that Jobbik can do anything for money and power. [[The sound is ringing.]] Their former voice was sold, and they are now following the unsatisfying style of their master, Lajos Simicska, by which they repeatedly stumble public opinion. What can mothers who walk away with their young children in front of a scribbled poster? And what do you say to the jazz pensioners? Still in the grave...
u2017-10-09-172	Congressman, check your phone or someone over there. [[It's happening.]] Thank you. Continue, Congressman.
u2017-10-09-173	What can mothers say to their children who walk past a scribbled poster? And what do you say to the jazz pensioners? They don't even respect people in graves just because they're retired and express their opinion? Why does Jobbik not appreciate the opinion of Hungarians who have grown old in honour and work? Why doesn't János Volner apologize for violating the memory of the dead? [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] Dear President Vona, Dear Mr. Volner. The jazz pensioners are telling you that you don't have to apologize anymore. The desecration of a dead man's memory is the bottom of everything. Even if you have the decency and courage to apologize, it's no use. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2017-10-09-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. The rejoinder also applies to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2017-10-09-175	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it would also be easier for the better Members to apologize than to keep yelling at me, constantly threatening me on this subject. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] It was so embarrassing for Jobbik to throw away another subject, the restriction of suffrage, to draw attention to this subject. By the way, there have been two parties in the last month or two that have restricted suffrage: Gábor Vona's party, Jobbik - or I would say that Lajos Simicska's party, Jobbik - or Ferenc Gyurcsány's party, DK. These two parties were the ones who thought that six months before the elections there was a need to reduce the number of voters in some way. However, here in Parliament neither Jobbik nor the other opposition parties voted in favour of the laws that were of great help to older people. One of the most important of these is the "Women 40" but they also did not support VAT reductions, and they did not consider the economic decisions that have been taken here in Parliament to produce the national total product growth, which already represents a pension premium for pensioners. These were considered flawed, but the pensioner's pensioner's premium came from it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.30]]
u2017-10-09-176	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. The speeches following the agenda are now taking place, but I will take a two-minute technical break and then we will continue our work with speeches after the agenda. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with post-meeting speeches. Please help us by taking a seat or getting tired in the hallway. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, applied for a post-meeting speech on the anniversary of Vép city. I'll give you the floor in five-minute time frame.
u2017-10-09-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, This November they are preparing for a big day in the city of Vép. It is remembered that 800 years ago, the name of the settlement was first mentioned in a document in written form. They also remember that 500 years ago, the famous Erdődy family owned the property of Vép. It is fitting that the small town of Vas County does not forget its past, which has a serious local patriot awareness, and rightly prides itself on the performance of its predecessors, which can give strength to building both the present and the future. Allow me to bow down here in the House of the Country as the city's representative of parliament this year in Jubilee to the performance of the people of Vép. Dear Parliament, If we look back into the town's chronicle this year of round anniversaries, we can witness a great history. Even in ancient times, it was an ancient suburb of Savaria, witnessed by archaeological monuments. At the time of the conquest, Hungarians belonging to the people of Bulcsú were probably settled here, and in the age of the Árpád-háza kings there were busy people working for this. 1217, II. It was created thanks to our King Andrew, so now, according to an 800-year diploma, the courtiers and the Vasvár cabbage shared in this area. Written mention can be found from 1240 when IV. King Béla renewed the privileges of the Wepyi courtiers. At that time, the people who lived here had the primary task of supplying the royal court with crops. From a written note from 1280 it is clear that Annex IV does not apply. László gave the settlement as a royal gift to an iron priest in recognition of his acts of war. Later, he was owned by other families. In the late 1400s he was left to Tamás Erdődy Bakócz, the later Archbishop of Esztergom, as a result of a will. That's how Vép came into the possession of the Erdődy family with royal confirmation. Although the area was transferred to the Zrínyi for a small period of time, the Erdődy family became the determining factor in the history of Vép in later centuries. Take the XVI-XVII. In the century, the war and epidemics caused him to suffer a lot, many died, and fled. For example, in 1553 14 serfs became uninhabited as a result of plague, in 1567 many serf families suffered damage due to the devastation of soldiers. According to a 1605 letter, the province of Vépí became desert, and weppen only 20 people live. Despite this, the commitment of the people who live here has left Vép, and has become a significant settlement. During Sándor Erdődy's Archbishop of Vas County, Vépen county meetings were held several times during wartime or other adverse circumstances. CHAPTER XVII Six national fairs were held annually in Vép. The 1728 Circuit Records show that Vép had an administrative significance at that time, a judge and 12 jurors handled the village's affairs. By 1788 a new church was built, dedicated by János Szily, the first bishop of Szombathely. The 1848-49 freedom fight was enthusiastically welcomed by the entire village, and many volunteered under the national flag. During World War I, most men served in military service. In honor of the 98 heroic dead, the heroic monument was made in 1919. In 1925 the Minister of the Interior declared the settlement a large village. During World War II, the memory of the fallen is preserved by the monument erected in the spring of 1990. From 1963, agricultural vocational training started in this place, and in 2009 it received an urban title. Dear Parliament, The people of Vép have preserved the settlement for today's citizens, who call Vép in the middle of the world, despite all the hardships in the past centuries. Today, too, they do a lot of work to make it possible for the whole city to grow, not just themselves and their smaller communities. Respect and appreciation for it! It is an eloquent proof of their consciousness that the events here begin with the local anthem. In recent times, we have taken more steps to improve through our joint work, with the support of the government, but we still have a number of tasks to work on. In this Jubilee year, I wish that the settlement and the community in it can continue to build in the future, drawing strength from the commitment of the ancestors. Happy birthday to Vép. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2017-10-09-178	Thank you, Congressman Peter Agh. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik also applied for a post-meeting speech: the problems of an abandoned region. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-09-179	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Allow me to take this opportunity, after the agenda, to say a little bit more about an area, which, unfortunately, is very sad that it has not happened very much between Parliament's walls, on the part of pro-government representatives, in recent decades. This is about Rábáköz, where unfortunately an area has been established, which is part of Győr-Moson-Sopron County, and you often refer to the county as the lucky area of the country, but there has been a local situation where there are often no meaningful, adequate jobs with normal wages available, and therefore the locals are forced to go to Győr, Sopron or Austria every day to work to provide decent support for their families. Therefore, I would like to mention the settlements here week after week, and to say a few problems about them, because I think that Csorna, for example, deserves more than you have ever given her. They cheated the Csornai with the solar cell factory, and let's not forget that obstetrics and gynecology have been taken away from the region, so practically during the Rába you can only die but not be born. What did the government give you? What did you give him? - let's ask the question. They actively helped destroy the meat factory, and to this day, a significant part of the workers and suppliers can run after their money. Or let's take a look at Beled, where the lack of local jobs, the lack of local jobs capable of ensuring normal pay, is also a problem every day. [[14.40]] But it is also worth mentioning the town of Bet, where the accessibility of the roads in the region is almost a reference to medieval conditions, and I stress that I am not talking about the fault of the settlements, but about the roads that the state should most of all maintain and renew. I would also like to mention Ivan, where they really don't want much, just that children in primary school can normally play sports, want an indoor room, where they can, by the way, impose the obligation of the law and make meaningful use of their daily sports time. I should also mention a Bősárkány, which does not yet have a sewage network in the country as the only settlement with such a population. Here, too, there is an absurd situation that the current government has been unable to resolve for the seventh year, and the EU's obligation would urge the government to do so, and it does not seem to be important to you. Szany is also famous for the road networks, as it lies somewhere between Csorna and Pope, but still a tracked vehicle is required to allow the road to be used in substance if certain weather conditions deceive. And about 70 settlements that have been affected by the problems listed above could still be listed. After that, it is no wonder that we are talking about a tiny village where ageing is part of everyday life, because young people do not see a vision, they do not see the possibility that a 21st century will be a reality. In the first century they can create an acceptable life and quality of life in these settlements, while the landscape and environmental conditions would be fully capable of creating a condition for a rural life in the European sense. It is therefore very sad for me that we do not see any vision, no Rábaköz plan on the part of the government, how to make it possible for the people living here not to be the only alternative to commuting to large cities or Austria every day. The possibility of access to the healthcare system is considerably worse than that of people living in cities. I also cannot stress the problem, for example, of the fact that the area is so weak in terms of elderly homes, because as Rábaköz grows older, more and more people need to live in such homes, and it is increasingly difficult for relatives to visit them, and I do not need to say how serious the consequences are both medically and emotionally and mentally. For this reason, I ask the government to put much more emphasis on this forgotten constituency, and to come up with meaningful, genuine development plans, not lies, not balloons like I have already been able to mention here today in relation to the solar cell plant. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-09-180	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Minister of State, Hungarian Levente wishes to reply.
u2017-10-09-181	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you very much for the comment, the suggestion. It is obviously an important issue, since Rábaköz and the municipalities listed - Csorna, Kapuvár, Beled, Tét, Ivan, Bősárkány, Szany and all the others that the Member has not named - are part of the country where, I think, it has given a particularly great deal of potential that if we exploit and exploit it effectively, it can be made into a prosperous region. At the same time, I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that, as obviously there is an urge to highlight the problems of areas close to his heart, it is an objective fact that within Győr-Moson-Sopron County and Győr-Moson-Sopron County, this region is an area with a certain amount of advantages and already more serious features than many other regions in the country, and it is enough to think only of certain districts of the Danube, namely the South Transdanubia, where, I think, if they had problems such as this region, people would be particularly pleased, since they are still far away, let us think of Ormania, for example, where infrastructure and other features are far from Rábaköz. But of course, honourable Member, we must also give priority to Rábaköz, because every village in the country, each resident of the country, must be exactly as important to the government. Once again, I would like to stress that this is the region of the country - given that it belongs to three major cities, Vienna, Budapest and Bratislava - I think that we have a future in which we can achieve this together, which can be exemplary in many other parts of the country. I would like to point out to the Member that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade is at his disposal to all Members who wish to lobby for an investment, for an investment from which he expects job creation, added value and local added value. We can support these investments with a wide set of tools, and you are very welcome to sit down with any investor in your field of interest and assess the opportunities from whom the region can expect such benefits. Honourable Congressman, In addition to this specific opportunity linked to our ministry, I would like to draw your attention to an EU programme under which unheard of sums are available in part to address the challenges that the honourable Member has spoken about. In line with the government's objectives of business development, reindustrialisation, innovation, competitiveness and employment, GINOP primarily finances measures to support growth, efficiency, modernisation, innovation potential and the competitiveness of the workforce, including SMEs. The total budget of the programme is more than HUF 2700, to be exact, HUF 2733 billion, if you consider the design rate of HUF 310.1 per euro, and of course national co-financing is included. Improving the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises is also a priority in Rába. In this respect, too, I would like to draw your attention to the duty and responsibility of Members who bear the fate of the region, that, if you help us detect opportunities that can develop the region in line with these objectives, you will be fully open to this. The second important objective of GINOP is research and technological development and innovation. Just this year, a new R &amp; D support mechanism was developed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, and we are also at the disposal of companies operating in Rába. More than 141 billion forints are foreseen for infocommunication development. I would like to ask the honourable Member that we should like to contact the government's authorities on a priority basis, such as energy, employment, competitiveness and labour, as well as tourism and financial instruments, and that, if we can serve the Rábaköz together on the basis of concrete proposals, we are open to this in all respects. I wish the Rábaköz, the settlements concerned good luck, and you can count on the government's unconditional support in everything. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2017-10-09-182	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik also applied for a post-scheduled speech:. As a 21st-century party, Jobbik faces the new challenges of the 21st-century - III. the title of the subpart. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2017-10-09-183	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Coming to the third part of my series of speeches, after even more effective involvement of smart devices in education and the introduction of an electronic voting system, now the full and effective establishment of electronic administration as well as Jobbik's specifically XXI. I would like to say a few words about one of the elements of its 100th-century programme. More of those XXI. There is a phenomenon of the century, which can be points of eruption for Hungary, which can contribute to the rise of the country. One such option is to put public administrations on electronic foundations. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not a new issue, it is without doubt that the government has started to deal with this issue, and has taken some small steps in this direction, but unfortunately, from the processes that have started, the population has sensed little and focused, above all, not on meeting the needs of the population, but rather on facilitating the operation of the office. If anything, the primary objective of e-administration is to simplify and make the citizen's relationship with the state more comfortable and faster with the help of the e-surface. [[14.50]] The process of setting up public administrations on an electronic basis should therefore be made even more efficient, rational and comprehensive, since - also a finding and an analysis of the situation - it is objectionable in the current situation that electronic administration does not involve, for example, the abolition or radical reduction of paper administration, although it would not only be for the benefit of man but also for the environment. For example, the same approach is reflected in Estonia, where there has been no paper at government meetings since 2000, i.e. 17 years ago, in essence the whole Parliament has not used paper for its operation - 17 years. This is just a small example that shows the difference between the two countries, and that there is still room for us to develop more and more. Dear Parliament, In all of this, Jobbik strongly says that enough bureaucratism and outdated methods. It is an old debt for governments to eliminate the current, over-bureaucratized, complex and opaque nature of public administration. Just think of the need to provide the same data regularly, over and over again, every time we turn to the administration, or how much unnecessary procedure is caused by the renewal of different IDs. In Estonia, which has already been mentioned, which is a groundbreaking and eloquent example of digital development, citizens only have to provide a given figure once. For example, if a person makes insurance on a new car, he does not have to disclose any personal data that he once provided somewhere, for example, just comment on the existence of a new car. But there are also a number of examples that should be introduced at home. But consider another example. Why could it not be possible for everyone in Hungary to submit their tax returns online, which can be prepared in 5 minutes, as is also the case in Estonia? But this also includes the e-vote system that I discussed in my last speech, which allows the vote to be cast from anywhere in the world, but in Estonia, the recipes for medicines and medical bureaucracy are also completely digital. In addition, e-delivery would be an important innovation, i.e. that e-mails should be sent by the State or sent by the citizen to the State in the same way as traditional postal letters with the legal effects of the traditional letter. This could mean billions of forints of savings to the parties. Similarly, the digitisation of nearly 15,000 procurement procedures per year in e-procurement would make printing millions of pages of paper unnecessary, more transparent and faster. Not least, e-administration is also of major economic importance. Estonia saves 2% of GDP annually by electronic administration. And it is also a telling fact that ten times more cases can be dealt with digitally in Estonia than in Hungary. Dear House, Human-centred and modern public administration - this is the key to successful public administration. Jobbik has set out to create an e-administration in which man is at the centre and to which all citizens have access. This is why, and in this context, Jobbik's programme includes, for example, the extension of the free internet as a prerequisite for the creation of a modern administration. Jobbik would therefore make the administration on an electronic basis rolling, transparent, faster and more convenient, often complicated, slow and over-bureaucratised. Dear Parliament, These are aspects that can and must be fully borne out, as the strategies and documents already mentioned above are basically the same. They set the right direction and concept, all that is missing is implementation, words being translated into action. I can assure you that Jobbik will complete this process from 2018, and will create effective e-administration in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2017-10-09-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Levente Magyar will respond.
u2017-10-09-185	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in response to the challenges and opportunities of the digital world, the government has been taking tangible steps, taking action for many years, and we are constantly looking for adequate and timely responses to these challenges. For many years now, I think that we have been able to respond successfully to new phenomena, opportunities and challenges in the online world, recognising that we still face many challenges, including the renewal, digitalisation of public administration, and more precisely the development and continuation of the process, since we must not forget that substantial progress has already been made on this issue. As opposed to Jobbik, who seem to recognize the topicality of these challenges only during this period. There has been a substantial search here since 2010, and we have also made concrete proposals, and specific legislation has been adopted in this area. Honourable Congressman, During the 2015 InternetCon, citizens were able to express their views on the most important issues of Internet and digital development - such consultation has not taken place before - thus defining the decisions the government will make regarding the development of the Hungarian Internet and the digital ecosystem. The Digital Prosperity Programme, which has been implementing the results of InternetKon, provides space for a number of digital transformation programmes and a number of new developments and, due to its comprehensive nature, a coordinated governance programme for the digital ecosystem as a whole. The aim of this programme is to make every Hungarian citizen and every Hungarian enterprise the winner of digitalisation. In addition to the digital transformation of the entire Hungarian education system and other developments that have already begun, the Digital well-being programme aims to make the Internet accessible and affordable for all in the coming years, to make Hungary more prepared for the inevitable digital transformation. With the help of the program, we want to remove any obstacles that stand in the way of someone becoming an Internet user. Therefore, in order to ensure that the lack of material resources does not exclude any Hungarian citizen from participating in the digital world, with another significant tax reduction, we aim to help by reducing the VAT on internet from 27 to 18, then by 18% to 5 percent, by introducing the basic package on digital well-being and by the end of 2018 free WiFi services in all settlements of the country. I think these are remarkable and commendable steps. By the end of next year, at least 30 megabit/secundum super-fast internet access will be the first in Hungary to reach every household in the European Union. On 19 June 2017, a 5 G coalition was established in Hungary, initiated by the Digital Prosperity Programme, which aims to make Hungary one of the European centres for 5G development and to play a regional leading role in testing applications based on 5G. As regards digital competences, honourable Member, we are developing a long-term, detailed concept of digital competence development and a detailed measurement system for digital competences. In the digital economy, various sectoral digital transformation strategies are being developed, and we also consider it essential to prepare domestic micro-enterprises for digital transformation. For example, the economic benefits of digital developments in the agricultural sector are currently being used, and Hungary's digital agricultural strategy is also being developed for the digital development of the Hungarian agricultural sector in the framework of the Digital Prosperity programme 2.0. The same process will be launched in the fields of health and sport. Honourable Congressman, Let us not forget the mention of the people you are concerned with. Actions for the digital state and for the digital administration are extremely important. In the framework of the Digital Prosperity Programme 2.0, digital administrative training and further training programmes will be developed and launched in line with the overall development programmes for the digital transformation of the entire public administration. The main points of the programme include information security and cyber security developments, research for the impact assessment of digitalisation, enabling the involvement of Hungarian national communities living beyond the borders in the digital well-being programme and the digital development programme of Smart Cities. Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. Mr. President. Thank you for the opportunity to respond.
u2017-10-09-186	Thank you, Secretary of State, Magyar Levente. Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik also applied for a post-the-meet speech:, How long? It's an address. You have the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2017-10-09-187	Mr President, Dear House, The representatives of Jobbik not only pay their respects on the street during campaign times, but also outside. In these weeks I will continue a series of street forums in Óbuda-Békásmegyer, in the area I know better, where I have lived for decades, and that is what our fellow Members have been doing throughout the country. I would recommend the same for the Fidesz-KDNP representatives, so move from the safe office blur of receiving lessons to those busy places where you can encounter a lot of lifelike stories, many tragic stories. [[15.00]] During the last such a street forum, Katalin Wheelmaker and some foreign exchange advocacy honored me with his confidence. We talk regularly, but always, over and over again, people are struck by stories that come directly from eviction events that are made in connection with the abuse of executives. They cannot be treated as an isolated phenomenon, as some 900 thousand of our countrymen are under some kind of enforcement procedure, so this is the number of ongoing procedures, and a significant part of these are due to banking matters and banking transactions. In itself, the fact that this directly affects one in ten people, it is still developed by the fact that, indirectly, a person affected by similar events occurs in all of our families or in every other family, but the eviction wave and the government insensitiveness that follows this series of events are quite amazing. I don't know how a minister or a member of the government can quietly fall asleep, because that otherwise repulsive event and series of phenomena has occurred in the Bajna period, so in an economic emergency period, there has not been so many evictions and such exterminations as today. Only from the production of the last two weeks, the exchangers who honored us at our booth: a family of two-week-old babies and 18-month-old children were evacuated in the capital, and two children were evicted from the XI. in the district, last week, a family was kicked out of his home in Csömör, and on Monday, there will be an eviction in Pécs where it is a mother and her sick child. All of this perfectly proves to me that the social safety net, which was still present in traces over the last decade or two, has basically vanished into nothing, and the amazing situation has emerged that any Hungarian family may be in a similar situation without making a mistake or even a mistake. This is a disaster in itself, it is a very difficult situation to deal with, but the real disaster occurs when government representatives here say that they have solved this problem, they say that they have saved the people involved, posters are posted on billboards - it was not even a forbidden or forbidden form - to account banks. On the other hand, the whole system has been fine-tuned and oiled in such a way that it benefits the executive, the commercial bank, and, in fact, little to the family. They are still bringing to us the court decisions, the news from here, according to which 3 million forints of labor were awarded to a bank lawyer in a similar case. Thus, millions of bank lawyers' salaries fly, while families, if any, are forced to pay double for a debt of five million, with a debt of 33 million. This is an alleged debt, it is obvious that we will never acknowledge this as real, but the current government has maintained the system under which this can be done in Hungary, and there are still well over 100,000 people who have at least 90 days behind them, so the axe is definitely hanging over their heads. Dezső Neogrády, one of the citizens who is also involved in foreign exchange lending, sent us, yes, the analogy which, by the way, is quite visual that if someone buys a refrigerator, any representative, and the electric shock in the family, whether the seller belongs to the compensation, or if they say that no one has a gun to their head to buy a refrigerator. The fact is, this picture perfectly describes the government's attitude. Even now, in the last week or two, I've had a ministerial reply that they didn't hold a gun to these people's heads. True, no, but they did not tell them about the disgusting collusion that Hungary's governments - and not just the current, but the former - and the commercial banks about how they would leave these consumer abuse and shortcomings in place and how they would expose hundreds of thousands of our compatriots to the dream that working people might become aided and homeless, losing family members, losing faith in the future. A decent government can't let that happen, they won't let it go. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-09-188	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Levente Magyar responds to what has been said.
u2017-10-09-189	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Congressman, Dear House, The trap of foreign exchange debt is a shameful legacy of the socioliberal governments of the 2000s, which has not yet been fully recovered from the country, and obviously this is an extremely sensitive topic that requires a sensitive attitude and sensitive government action, and it is necessary to determine the steps to be taken on the basis of careful consideration, since, in addition to the fact that it is clear that the omissions and crimes of previous governments must be recognised, if you like it, that the regulation around foreign exchange lenders was not - obviously not sufficient and fair, the field of action is thus limited to an executive authority ten years later, within the framework of the rule of law. Honourable Congressman, Obviously, it is also known to you that the basic purpose of judicial enforcement is to recover claims of creditors not paid by the debtor. However, it is important to point out in this context that creditors' claims are not only made up of the claims of financial institutions, but also the result of the non-payment of other private-law claims may be the auction and possible eviction of the debtor's property, such as the failure to meet child support claims, so debtors may not be placed in a position to leave their homes solely because of their bank debts. With regard to the laws governing the situation of foreign exchange taxpayers, the so-called foreign exchange laws, it is necessary to highlight the amendment of the credit institution law and the consumer credit law, resulting in the mandatory application of the central rate. The amount of early repayment fees has been maximized and in some cases the maturity extension fees and costs may have not been charged. Furthermore, the Parliament settled the issues related to consumer credit through the creation of foreign exchange laws and laid down the rules for the settlement required under invalid contractual provisions and ensured that the residential properties of those concerned could not be completely emptied during this settlement. As regards the exchange rate of forinting, I would like to inform you that the legislator took into account the decision of the Curia of 16 June 2014 on the exchange rate risk related to foreign exchange lending. The exchange rate of the Swiss franc was not currently 256, but it was also in 267 and even in 2010 at 319 levels. Thanks to the cooperation of the government and the MNB, the HUF 256 Swiss franck exchange rate could be used in 2015. As a result, the population has been permanently freed from the burden of exchange rate risk, so it no longer has to deal with the problems caused by the Swiss franc exchange rate. It is important to clarify that the Swiss franc exchange rate of 165 should not be compared to 256, but the current, even less favourable, Swiss franc exchange rate of 270. As a result of the good timing forinting, according to the Ministry of National Economy estimates, households have been able to save some HUF 100 billion or up to HUF 200 billion. It should also be pointed out that since 2003, the legislation on the so-called winter eviction moratorium has been in place, whereby the executioner postpones the evacuation of residential property for the period from 1 December to 1 March if the debtor is an individual. The winter eviction moratorium helps families in a difficult situation during the most critical winter period, so that the situation caused by the loss of an apartment does not automatically involve endangering life, harming human dignity and excluding evictions from 1 December to 1 March. National Asset Management Ltd. provide a total of 36,000 families with an opportunity to avoid eviction under the NET programme, which has been operated since 2011, and provide long-term housing for a reduced rent. Until August 31, 2017, the company has already purchased nearly 32 400 properties from non-repayable, socially dependent lenders. Since enforcement procedures are suspended from receipt of declarations of intent, credit lenders whose application is still in the process of processing may also be relieved. Honourable Congressman, I also believe that, from what has been said, which has not been a full outline of the measures taken by the government, it is clear that what an executive power can do to mitigate and improve the situation has taken place, and, of course, we must continue to pay particular attention to the development of this problem in the future and give appropriate answers. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2017-10-09-190	Thank you, Secretary of State, Magyar Levente. [[15.10]] István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, notary, applied for a post-meeting speech.Why is the re-regulation of the use and distribution of electric cigarettes blocked? It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2017-10-09-191	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am glad that there is someone else on the part of the government, and I hope that I can get some answers to this speech from the Secretary of State. I have spoken several times between the walls of this House in relation to the protection of the interests of users of electric cigarettes and the unreasonable regulations concerning electric cigarettes. I continue to believe that e-cigarette is a less harmful alternative to traditional tobacco products with milestones. This fact was supported by consumer experience, recognised doctors and numerous domestic and international research, some of which I also gave to the Secretary of State, Nándor Csepreghy. In order to reduce the diseases caused by smoking and to protect the health of Hungarian people, we have a joint concern, not to discourage it, but to help the domestic spread of electric cigarettes in accordance with our options among those using traditional tobacco products. E-cigarette is not a tobacco product, and users are not smokers - let's say for many times and again! Therefore, in May this year, I sent a letter to Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, in which I drew his attention to the shortcomings and shortcomings in the distribution sector, and in the light of the opinions of consumers and distributors, I also made some suggestions regarding the desirable direction of regulation of the issue. It has been almost six months since my letter was written, but unfortunately I have not received an answer to this day, although the problems raised are, of course, still current. Let us now take the most important of these. We welcomed the positive shift in government positions on the subject after the initial rigid rejection and the unprofessional arguments. A government decree at the end of 2016 established the possibility of re-opening stores that also sell electric cigarettes, but the appropriate legal and legal background has not yet been developed, so e-cigarettes and related products remain available only in national tobacco stores. The annual registration fee set out in the EMMI Regulation was not reduced, which is HUF 475 thousand per product type. We have repeatedly indicated that if this award does not decrease significantly, it will result in a drastic contraction and increase of the product supply in the Hungarian market. Unfortunately, the feedback from consumer associations has also confirmed this fear since then that due to the unrealistic registration fee, the product supply charged with excise duty has decreased and prices have skyrocketed. This brings hundreds of thousands of domestic consumers to foreign online stores and, let us admit, to the black market. As a result, consumers are being forced into an illegal situation and, in addition, the Hungarian State is losing hundreds of millions of tax revenues. This clearly cannot be a government goal. If distributors pay the administrative service fee once, it would be reasonable to notify all accessories of the device in case of notification by device so that the spare part can be obtained in the event of possible injuries or failures and not to purchase a completely new device. In addition, it would be extremely important to pay this fee only per taste and not separately per nicotine strength, since the composition of a specific liquid does not change in anything other than nicotine concentrations. With regard to e-liquids, it would be considered that nicotine-free liquids should finally be excluded from the registration fee. While we are already at the filling fluids for electric cigarettes, it is important to point out that the government made substantial progress in these matters at the beginning of the year. The originally planned excise duty of HUF 65 per million was reduced by HUF 10 per million following Jobbik's proposal. Furthermore, it was possible to avoid paying a specific excise duty on refilling fluids not containing nicotine. Unfortunately, now the initial positive processes seem to be on hold, and in recent months no progress has been made on the part of the government. Meanwhile, they left the Hungarian market with a mass of domestic consumers or returned to the use of traditional tobacco products in order to narrow the possibilities. In addition, a number of submissions from the Constitutional Court have been made regarding the drastic narrowing of the use and distribution of electrical cigarettes, but there is still no decision on them. Finally, I would like to reiterate our joy at seeing positive changes in the position of the government, but these processes have been stalled in recent months. I think it would be time to give a meaningful answer to the question of consumers and distributors when, in their case, there is yet another substantial step forward in relation to the issues and problems raised. When and in what direction will the use and distribution of electric cigarettes be further regulated? I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2017-10-09-192	Thank you, Congressman Savay, notary. I now give the floor, on behalf of the government Magyar Levente wishes to comment.
u2017-10-09-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for the opportunity. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In Hungary, smoking is a serious public health and national economy challenge, and as a result of smoking, more than 20,000 people die in our country every year, as is well known. In Hungary, the fight for tobacco control has been a health and health policy priority since 2010, and government action in this area, on all fronts, with all means to reduce smoking as far as possible. Honourable Congressman, The legislation governing the use of e-cigarettes has, on the one hand, brought about tightening up and, on the other hand, some mitigation over the last three years, not least in line with Jobbik's initiatives. Undoubtedly, the Parliament has decided that from 20 May 2016 electronic cigarettes can only be marketed in national tobacco stores. At that time, and today, the aim was to sell all tobacco-related devices only in controlled specialised locations in such a way that access for people under the age of 18 would be limited. And to do so, it was obvious to bring the products into the traffics. The government is also aware of the professional and legal debate on the alleged less harmfulness of electronic cigarettes and of whether it was appropriate to restrict the sale of products to tobacco stores. We don't want to jump away from the debate. That is why we proposed last year, in addition to supporting the Jobbik Group, by amending the Traffic Act, that a professional committee, set up by the health government, decide whether it is possible to amend or mitigate the rules on the marketing or consumption of these products. In the summer, the working committee was set up within the framework of the EMMI, which is preparing the relevant regulation, and the work is taking place a little slower than expected. The working committee shall be responsible for preparing draft legislative acts aimed at possibly mitigating marketing for electronic cigarettes. However, this has not yet come before the government, so the government has not been able to make any decisions on the matter. We hope that the government will be able to discuss this issue at least at first reading in the autumn, particularly from a professional point of view. On the other hand, we are also aware that a number of constitutional complaints have been submitted to the Constitutional Court by those fighting for the legalisation of electronic cigarettes. Since they have been accepted by the Constitutional Court, it is possible that the Constitutional Court itself takes a position on the correctness of the regulation, which the government, if it has already held to its regulation, has an obligation to wait. It is important that the government does not regard electronic cigarettes as being persecuted in itself, since it is not for the government, nor for the Members to decide whether it is more likely that it will help to quit traditional smoking or be harmful. I suggest we leave this to the professionals. In any event, progress has been made so far in order to distinguish e-cigarettes in a positive way, since we have also introduced reasonable excise tax rules with the support of Jobbik, and the government will continue to strive to remain only reasonable regulators in this area, including reporting and related charging obligations. It is not, therefore, that the issue of the regulation of electronic cigarettes has come to a standstill. We are confident that the professional material of the working committee may be brought before the government after the administrative consultation, even in the autumn, but the formation of the regulation may also be affected by any decision of the Constitutional Court. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you so much for listening.
u2017-10-09-194	Thank you, Secretary of State, Magyar Levente. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 16 October 2017. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. [[The meeting ended at 3:20 p.m.]]
