u2015-02-16-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 1st day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Welcome, my dear guests, and everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, I am fulfilling my sad duty to inform you that Jenő Lasztovicza died on 8 January in the 53rd year of our fellow Member's life. At the parliamentary elections in 1998, he obtained his mandate as Fidesz candidate in the 4th single mandate constituency of Veszprém county. He received the voter's trust in five consecutive cycles. From 1998 he was Vice-President of the Tourism Committee and then Chairman of the Tourism Committee from 2002. From 2006 he continued to work in the field of sport, tourism and tourism. He also served as Chairman of the Committee. In 2014, he was a member of the Legislative Committee. Between 1999 and 2002 he was president of the National Tourism Committee. He served as Chairman of the General Assembly of Veszprém County between 2006 and 2014. He was also Chairman of the Central Transdanubian Regional Health Council, the Veszprém County Regional Development Council. He was also a member of the Central Transdanubian Regional Development Council and the Hungarian Olympic Committee. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our dead fellow Member. [[The people in this room stand up.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government today, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, has applied for an address entitled . The Minister has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-02-16-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, In the world, geopolitical changes are taking place that, day by day, have never seen, and may cause situations expected by no one, or at least by few. This is true from a political, economic, security and military point of view. Let's just think, few had anticipated it, even less had predicted that the competitiveness situation and conditions would change and regroup to the extent we see it now. Large regional trade agreements are competing with each other and over time, political systems are failing and rising, and the threat of terrorism is closer to us than ever before, not to mention war conflicts in the vicinity. In this situation, we must also state that the changes are not moving towards stability and calming down, but are accelerating, and therefore Hungary, Hungarian foreign policy, must face more serious and serious challenges than ever before. The task of national foreign policy must then be clear; we must have a clear focus, and this is to enforce Hungary's interests in the face of more serious challenges than ever before, without compromise. In such situations, in the midst of such rapid changes, the ability to react, the rapid response is a very important competitive advantage. It is no coincidence, then, that the diplomatic large plant that characterizes Budapest in these weeks. In addition, Hungary's membership of the world's strongest defence alliance and membership of one of the world's most important political and economic integrations will be appreciated in this situation. Mr. Prime Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, In this situation, I would like to give you a brief overview of the main objectives of national foreign policy. The important objective of our national foreign policy is to strengthen our strategic alliance with Germany. This was done recently during the visit of Chancellor Angela Merkel in Budapest. German investments play a crucial role in the performance of the Hungarian national economy; cooperation between Germany and the Central European countries, including the Visegrád Four, will continue to be a pledge and motor of European growth in the coming period. The second important objective of national foreign policy is to further improve our cooperation with the United States of America. Our aim is to bring our political cooperation back to the level of economic and defence cooperation, despite recent open issues. There has been no doubt that positive processes have started over the past period, and we are in the interest of maintaining them, and that is what we are trying to do. And in this geopolitical situation, which has emerged around us, we strongly consider it justified to consider whether we might increase our contribution to improving military stability in Kurdistan. The third is a very important objective and ambition of our national foreign policy to ensure peace in Ukraine. Ukraine is a neighbouring country, with more than 150,000 Hungarians living there, and the Russian gas, which plays a major role in the country's energy security, also comes to Hungary through Ukraine. Therefore, if there is a country in the world whose main purpose is to have peace in Ukraine, there should be peace as soon as possible, and we will achieve this through negotiations, then it must be Hungary. It is our interest and hope that everyone will stick to the Minsk agreements and that the ceasefire agreement will work in the long term; although let us also note that a fragile ceasefire is always better than a stable war. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán held a meeting with the President of Ukraine in Kiev on Friday, where it became clear that Ukraine will still need a lot of humanitarian and economic assistance to ensure political and economic stability, and Hungary is therefore ready to provide humanitarian and economic assistance to our neighbours as it has been. [[13.10]] Finally, in the context of national foreign policy efforts, I would like to say to you that we are working with Russia on pragmatic, partnership and respect for each other and for international law, in order to be able to conclude economic and energy security agreements that are so important to Hungary. On the way to concluding these agreements, President Putin's visit tomorrow could be an important milestone. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that while national interests are always superior to party policy debates, such an extremely high level of ambition is needed. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Our cooperation is particularly justified during geopolitical periods and we therefore respectfully request the cooperation of parliamentary parties in achieving the objectives of national foreign policy. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-2	I will ask the leaders of the political groups whether they wish to react within the two minutes available. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer. Here you go.
u2015-02-16-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister for Foreign Affairs, Firstly, of course, I would like to express my thanks for the need, contrary to the practice of the last four years, for the five parliamentary groups to agree on fundamental foreign policy issues. This is indeed necessary, not only in this fierce situation, but also in the past four years. Indeed, we agree that Hungary and Europe as a whole have the most fundamental interest in the whole Ukrainian conflict, so that there will be peace as soon as possible and consolidated relations on the outskirts of Europe. At the same time, Hungary must constantly make clear what it thinks about Russian territorial aggression, what international law thinks, for example, about the crushing of the agreement concluded in Budapest 25 years ago. And when we talk about foreign policy goals, it is also important to remember that a good year ago you announced a foreign policy strategy that confuses foreign policy with commercialism and basically declared war on value-oriented foreign policy. I think it's time to review that, too. Hungary's number one strategic ally is Eastern Europe, which is precisely why it was a mistake, for example, to terminate the Estonian embassy and the other important strategic ally of South Europe. It is important to note that in order to enforce Hungarian interests, we find allies primarily in Eastern and Southern Europe. It should also be said that when you are talking about euphemistically large regional trade agreements, it should be put on the table that the dictatorship that the United States of America wants to push down the throat of the European Union, this free trade agreement is contrary to the interests of Hungary, to the interests of Eastern and Southern Europe. At the time when we face this, we need strong Hungarian positions, which are wasted on unnecessary conflicts. And one addiction cannot be replaced by another addiction, and it would be good to be aware of that in tomorrow's Hungarian-Russian negotiations. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-4	I now give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth on behalf of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-02-16-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Indeed, when you began to consult with the representatives of the factions last year, it was agreed that a so-called foreign policy action plan would be prepared for you. The participants were still asking for a strategy, but you said that this would be an action plan that the factions will receive in writing, that can be agreed on, and based on the national foreign policy that you are referring to, you and your party, your government would like this to be formed by consensus. What you have just said about Germany, the settlement of the diplomatic conflict with the United States and Ukraine, I think there is much to agree on. The party of the Hungarian Socialist Party is also in favour of peace, these issues can be discussed. But there are many other issues on which these discussions do not address, and this is the national foreign policy action plan that you have formulated, which we still do not have. And obviously you use suspicion lawsuits to use foreign policy for your own internal political purposes; just how uncomfortable or comfortable it is internally, according to what you expect from the parties, the factions, the consensus, according to what you expect to negotiate. I would like to state that the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party will not assist you in supporting your internal political goals and ideas in these foreign affairs discussions, and you will not receive our support for this. I would also like to point out that we do not wish to seek any consensus in the interests of the Fidesz Economic Moon, nor to participate in any negotiations. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-6	Imre Vejkey, the KDNP representative, has the floor now. Here you go.
u2015-02-16-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, On behalf of the KDNP parliamentary group, thank you for the Minister's report. At the same time, let me thank Prime Minister Viktor Orbán for his meeting on Saturday with Parliamentary Group leaders on fundamental foreign affairs issues. On this basis, I can say that the KDNP fully agrees with the government's foreign policy. In order to enforce Hungary's foreign policy interests, the KDNP fraction, together with its experts, supports the government's foreign policy. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-8	Now it's time for Jobbik's representative, Márton Gyöngyösi. Here you go.
u2015-02-16-9	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I will also join the speakers before me: thank you very much for these regular discussions and for these regular reports here at the parliamentary sittings. We agree that there is an urgent need, especially when the international situation is increasing, for solidarity. This is very important, an important objective, but at the same time it is very difficult to achieve this objective when the government's strategy is unclear and involves a kind of peacock dance, which we, sitting here, can't even keep track of, well, even the outsiders, our foreign policy partners. The fact that the State Department didn't know the world was going on doesn't surprise me at all if we look at how the State Department worked. What analytical work could have been carried out in diplomatic bodies when Ukraine was not foreseen for destabilisation? Since December 2004, since the Orange Revolution, it has been very clear what direction Ukraine is moving in, and we have had ten years to come up with an appropriate strategy for Ukraine. The fact that Hungary considers the partnership with the United States of America important today, but also the peace in Ukraine, is, in my view, two totally incompatible objectives. [[13.20]] It is quite clear that what is currently taking place in Ukraine is in line with the American geostrategic goals. This conflict was provoked by the United States of America and the West about six months ago. These two objectives will be very, very difficult to reconcile. In this situation, we can have nothing but a priority of three things, obviously a question of peace. It must be said that Hungarians cannot be enlisted by Ukraine for a foreign purpose, that Hungarian soldiers should not be taken to fight in Eastern Ukraine. And it is time, Minister, to talk about the issue of autonomy. This is an important objective, Transcarpathia needs autonomy. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-16-10	And now, the leader of the Fidesz Group, Antal Rogán. Here you go.
u2015-02-16-11	Thank you. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, He did not, but I think I can ask what would have happened if we had listened to our fellow Members on the left during the recent months in shaping the foreign policy strategy. If we had done this, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago, when the U.S. embassy's attorney made accusations without evidence, we would have turned our head in a Sir's way, and we wouldn't have acted as it suits a sovereign country, and we wouldn't have asked for evidence to be made, and we certainly wouldn't have kept it today that the accuser has left, there's no evidence left, but the US-Hungarian relations may finally start a new era in a normal relationship. Ladies and gentlemen, In the same way, if we had listened to our left-wing fellow Members, we would have broken all ties to our east, especially Russia, and we would now be a little surprised, although this is contrary to Hungarian economic interests, when the French President and the German Chancellor, together with the Ukrainian and Russian Presidents, sign an agreement on economic cooperation in Eurasian, where the Member States of the European Union express their willingness to be strategic and economic partners in the countries to our east. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the Hungarian Government has demonstrated in recent months that the experience-based foreign policy strategy is working well because it serves Hungary's economic interests. We think that this is what we need to continue to do, not to lean in one direction at a time, the direction of the other, but to always look at the interests of Hungary. This is what the government has done in recent years, and on behalf of the Fidesz Group, I would like to ask Minister for the same consistent consideration of Hungarian interests in shaping the foreign policy strategy in the coming months. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-12	Dear Parliament, Péter Harrach, Head of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party, came forward today to address the events of the past two months. Here you go.
u2015-02-16-13	Mr President, Dear House, At this time, at the beginning of the session, it may be worth looking back at the period that has taken place since the last session, because we have been on a rather long break. It was primarily foreign policy, but also some domestic political events. Of course, among foreign policy people, terrorist acts are of great importance. If we look at this question from the human rights side of the person, then we must say that the number one human rights issue, the respect for life, is now damaged by a serious act of which we have all been observers and which we all condemn. But on the social side, this is a serious attack on a healthy society, because it was aimed not only at individuals but also at communities. Terrorist acts have a particular color, anti-Christianism. In today's news, we have heard executions, which we can say is that the message they have formulated is not against the believing people, but against a culture, and this may be even more dangerous in this action, because it is about these terrorists attacking the countries of Western culture. This fact, this approach, also requires a specific protection, and it may not be worth wondering that the issue of immigration in relation to acts of terrorism is something of a specific nature and is now an internal political issue. But let's stick to foreign policy for now. We have just discussed what is happening in our neighbor Ukraine. We must say that our only goal is to ensure that peace is achieved, so that Hungarians across the border are not harmed and that there are no losers in this series of events. I would like to address two things, on the one hand, the issue of immigration that we have just mentioned, and, on the other hand, the process that has now come to a new stage in supporting families. Family bankruptcy is now underway, and we should also say a few words about this. On the issue of immigration, Christian democrats have a clear and firm position: let us distinguish between refugees and immigrants of livelihoods. Of course, if refugees are at risk of their lives and their integrity, this is a fundamental human obligation, if you will, an old element of the Christian Democratic idea. But those who are not protecting their life or their integrity, but who are looking for an opportunity to make a better living, should not show an open door for the benefit of domestic workers. We must take the measures that seem to be contrary to the EU's direction today, but we believe and experience that Austrian and German measures will sooner or later mean a lock that will eventually leave immigrants in Hungary. This cannot be a goal, these laws must be made as soon as possible. Some of the above-mentioned statements on family support. Family bankruptcy is integrated into the picture that is partly about solving problems for families with foreign exchange credit and partly about helping families in a difficult situation. I could calmly list the long-term and energy-intensive laws and measures that are in this row: in the case of foreign exchange lenders, a lot of measures have been taken through the exchange rate barrier, through the asset manager. Now this is a good time to help these difficult families recover and start over. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-14	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-02-16-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Chief of Staff, Mr President, Dear House, Allow me to respond very briefly to the three or four topics you mentioned, starting with what you started with, the acts of terrorism. Unfortunately, in the capitals of Europe's major states and even in the capitals of its medium-sized states, those who walk the streets, who wake up in the morning, go to work and return home at night, as we have heard in Paris, London, Madrid, and recently in Copenhagen about terrorist attacks that, although primarily, were targeted by members of a narrower group or even members of a religious group, have nevertheless been victims of people who have walked and walked there at random. It is by no means acceptable for anyone to try to enforce any claim by similar means. As you said, human life and human dignity are the two most fundamental values, the two, the first and foremost guaranteed part of human rights in our Fundamental Law. That is why our joint action is to speak out everywhere, in every parliament, against attacks on this type of European civilisation, and to show solidarity with either the Parisians or the Copenhagenese who have been attacked by such an attack. [[13.30]] However, we can also see that this is a very serious later consequence of a longer process, because unfortunately, in the European Union, it seems that many people have taken a wrong path in terms of immigration policy, and there are consequences that many may not have anticipated. Coupled with the fact that many at the same time thought that building multiculturalism was the right way, in which they saw that their own Christian roots, their own Christian identity, were weakened, and that this was how immigrants would feel more at home in Europe. That's not what we're saying. We are proud of Europe's Christian roots, we are proud of Christian European traditions and our religion, and we are not trying to make our policy on immigrants weaker. At the same time, the obvious complexity of this issue is reflected in the case of Officer Ahmed, who himself, as a descendant and child of Muslim immigrants, defended exactly the French newspaper against which the attack was launched, and who himself was killed by the perpetrators of the terrorist act there. We can therefore see from this that we are talking about an extremely complex and complex issue in Europe, but it is also very important that we express Hungary's clear opinion on this issue of Hungarian interests and that we should be proud of our own European identity. As Mr. Group Leader said, anti-Christianism has repeatedly flared up in parts of the Mediterranean outside Europe. In the past, we knew that every five minutes, a Christian believer died because of his faith, and in ten years, about a million people lost their lives because of religious persecutions. The carnage you've mentioned has taken place in the last few days. We have also heard about Boko Haram's terrorist acts, which they themselves have somewhat linked to European events, according to some deadly logic, in the news. So in many places in the world, Christians are persecuted in dozens of countries, and many of them are killed because of their religion. I also believe that action against this is the same obligation for all parliaments, because we are talking about universal human values. The immigration policy has been mentioned, Mr honourable Member, Mr Group Leader, and Hungary really cannot sit back on this issue, but we need action. We must protect the interests of the working people living in Hungary. It is clear that such a wave of livelihood immigration has started at the southern border of Hungary to an unprecedented extent. The European Union does not have a land border where illegal immigration of livelihoods would be higher than in the Hungarian-Serbian border section. No other country in Europe has to face this. If we look at the number and proportion of illegal immigrants per thousand, Hungary is the second country with this problem in the European Union. As you said, the question of political refugees must be completely separated from this issue, but at the same time we can see that if Western European countries, Austria, Germany, were to tighten their regulation and close the possibility for these living immigrants to some extent, and they could cross the Hungarian border without barriers, this would result in a very difficult situation for Hungary. Therefore, it is important that in the coming weeks and months we ask the opinion of the Hungarian electorate, the Hungarian citizens, what they intend to give the government the authority to find a solution to this problem that has grown 20 times, 30 times, in recent years. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-16-16	Mr Tamás Sneider, Member of the Jobbik Group, also spoke before the agenda, with the title of the retirement years. Here you go.
u2015-02-16-17	Mr President, Dear House, The last seven years have been seven short years for those who have retired or for those who are working today, but are expected to be retired in the next one or two decades. If we look at the past period, we can see that the retirement age was raised from 62 to 65 years during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, with a 30-year-old young man's life expectancy of 32.5 years. In Hungarian, it is not even close to the retirement age of an average Hungarian male in his 30s. Then came the next step, when pensions were reduced by 8 percent, also during the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, taking away the 13th month pension. Then he came to Fidesz, and you abolished the service pensions, the early retirement pension system was virtually abolished, the private pension fund was taken away, the HUF 3000 billion that disappeared in the bottomless well of public debt. It also shows that the people who built Hungary have been developing it in recent years. And because of this, the Hungarian pension is one of the lowest in Europe today. If we look at the surrounding countries, we can see that in Poland, they can give older people a large one-third higher pension. And I don't want to go to Western Europe, where on average there are four times higher pensions, but there are some people who can give ten times higher pensions than in Hungary today. And as a result, 300,000 people live in Hungary today from a pension of less than HUF 70,000, but there are tens of thousands who have to live on an old-age pension of less than HUF 20,000. Well, what else do pensioners have to suffer in order to make life better for them? We want them to stop suffering. What we want is for the retirement society to finally get, and especially for men, an opportunity that, by the way, as one positive decision that we have obviously supported, you have already given women. We are very happy that women can retire after 40 years of employment, but we would like to see that fit for men. Of course, there is a question of how much this will cost Hungarian society. I have to say that unfortunately it will cost half as much as the retirement of women after 40 years of employment, because unfortunately, there are half as many male pensioners in Hungary today as women. If you look at the fact that when men retire, much less people live, how many more years, you see that they die four years earlier. We think it is not demagogy to ask that men who have successfully survived today's Hungarian affairs, who have worked themselves to death, but still somehow reach the retirement age, can live a year or two, but possibly several years of retirement. Obviously, in the system where you have abolished the possibility of early retirement, when you believe that at the age of 65, you will have to carry the 120-pound patients off the fourth floor on a gurney, when you think they will be going through a checkout, of course, we know that the last mine will be closed now, but in any case there will still be a check in Hungary, when an oar will have to retire at the same time as a banker - obviously doing the same job, though, under the same health conditions - then, I think it is absolutely right that you will finally give some kind of discount to Hungarian men, the Hungarian men working today, and introduce this opportunity to men after 40 years of employment. In particular, I must point out that early retirement was introduced in Western Europe and that the retirement age has been reduced across almost all countries because unemployment was very high and youth unemployment in particular was very high. Well, it's the same in Hungary today. This is why hundreds of thousands of young people migrate from Hungary; this is why, among other things, they migrate. In other words, if you do the gesture that Jobbik will definitely do if you are in a government position to introduce this system, it would also have an advantage that young people could retire earlier, and this would obviously put this whole system in an even better position in budgetary terms. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We ask you to take this step, preferably in the next three years, because otherwise we have this job ahead of us. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-16-18	Once again, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári will answer on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2015-02-16-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Good morning to the Honourable Jobbik faction. You had to sit here in Parliament for five years to see that pensioners live in Hungary, and you have to speak here in Parliament for their sake. I would like to ask the Honourable Jobbik faction how many pension increases you have succeeded in voting here in Parliament over the past four and a half years. [[Tamás Sneider: After you did not vote for what we submitted.]] None, Your Honour. In this four-and-a-half year, since you have been sitting here in the Hungarian Parliament, the pension increases voted by Fidesz-KDNP have led to an increase in pensions of 6.7 percent compared to the general consumer price increase, and if you look at the retired consumer basket, pensions have increased by 6.9 percent compared to that. As a result of the deterioration of the money itself, pensions increased by almost 7 percent compared to the rate of the increase in the price increase, thanks to the pension increases voted by Fidesz-KDNP. [[13.40]] Adding this to the amount of the pension increase paid in 2010 represents 7.3 percent overall, which is close to 8.3 percent, which would be a 13th month pension increase. So Fidesz-KDNP is close to giving back what the Socialists had taken away from pensioners as a result of the pension policy of the last four years. But Jobbik took four and a half years to get the tantus down and to deal with pension issues here, within the walls of Parliament. But, of course, on this issue, which is the situation of the mandatory private pension funds you mentioned, you have now said the exact opposite of what Jobbik's programme was supposed to contain in 2010, and you may have read it, because at that time you considered this three-pillar private pension fund system to be equally flawed, and now four years later, it seems to be somehow the opposite of Jobbik's policy. But we've heard it from Jobbik in other areas. If it had been up to you or the Socialists, everyone's pension payment in 2010 would have been compromised. You know very well that there was a hole of HUF 400 billion on the pension register, it grew every year, it had to be supplemented by budgetary resources every year, this patch had to be patched up, and so, it was the only way to pay for pensions. Not only did the Socialists not pay the 13th month pension, but the remaining monthly pensions were also put at risk. This required Fidesz-KDNP's policy, a policy based on debt reduction and job creation, in which 400 000 more people are now working, and most of the former minimum wage earners are now also taxpayers. You are well aware that many people have not used or used the early retirement system in accordance with what was created. Obviously, there are those who, because of their physical condition, are unable to work, we continue to provide them with the benefits they need for their livelihoods, but many have taken this as an escape from unemployment and have called a labour market measure a pension, but in fact it had nothing to do with the social risk community and the pension system as a whole. This kind of unsustainable system had to be transformed into a sustainable system by Fidesz-KDNP. That's what we did. Unfortunately, we couldn't count on Jobbik's votes here in Parliament, even though it would have been good if more people had agreed. This has helped us to find a more secure pension for people working every day. In fact, in order to ensure that there is no debate in this, and that everyone gets their pensions according to the exact figures, you know that the pensioner has sent a letter to people retiring for the next five years to clarify exactly how much work they can expect, and if they have any excuses, they can do so before the first pension is paid. We have worked and sought to ensure that everyone knows their retirements are safe, and for women, we have created the possibility for women to retire for 40 years. 131 thousand women have taken advantage of this opportunity, and we wanted to acknowledge the sacrifice women make by having children both for their families and for the nation, and that is why we have provided them with it. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] This special retirement opportunity. I believe that the last four years have been a success, just because the value of the purchase of the pension basket has increased by almost 7 percent, for many people who have few pensions, the reduction has been much more helpful than for those who may have higher incomes, and it has taken four and a half years for Jobbik to finally realize that pensioners have to be dealt with here in Parliament. [[Tamás Sneider: What about men?]] I look forward to it, honourable Member, [[The president's ringing again.]] I wonder if you will vote for the next pension increase, and you have failed to do so. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-20	Speaking before the agenda, Mr Tobias József, Head of the group of the MSZP, will be next with the title "The Hungarian Reality." Here you go.
u2015-02-16-21	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, You, when you do not waste your time fighting in-fighting and operational corruption, are destroying and rapidly escalating Hungary's crisis of existence. While there are crises in many areas in the country, they are unable to represent a predictable, wise policy in international space, just swinging and dancing peacocks. Without values, they exercise power only in their self-interest. The citizens of the country are fed up with the arrogance of real government, the Fidesen and the power struggles within the government. We have come to the point, ladies and gentlemen, that the public speech is dominated by the public slapping of the Prime Minister by his best friend. For that sentence, a simple working man would have been taken away with the police, but you were silent against Simicka. But you can't keep quiet! What country can publicly threaten the Prime Minister, and the threat has no consequences? ! This case travels all over the country, and it's been all over the world. This is a shameful war over money, and a country is ashamed of you. On the street, on the market, in family discussions, the fate of the country is all more concerned, and you are all spoken of with greater contempt by the citizens; right, because you do not understand that the Hungarian people can no longer afford to pay their burdens. I have told you in the walls of this House, if they are not able to hear the voice of society, there may be great trouble. However, I see that your ears have been closed long ago, as they intend to put the country in. The people, the street, are sending you a message. The problems of tensioning reality are raging at street demonstrations, online forums, people's workplace and home conversations. We socialists hear these voices. They're talking about real problems, we've asked in the country's most vulnerable region the members of the human dignity, the work, the bread-claiming procession of dignity, what they want social dialogue about. This procession, gentlemen, which walks through regions for hunger and solidarity, determines the situation of rural Hungary as the biggest loss in recent years. They have led health care, education, all public services to a catastrophic state. We also agree that the 27 percent tax burden of Hungarian families is untenable, which is paid with VAT, and it is intolerable that 4 million 200 thousand of our compatriots now live below the minimum living. And a lot of people work with a wage that doesn't reach the minimum wage. The code of work you created is a disgrace because it does not protect the interests of workers. We also asked our compatriots if they wanted to pay another face, tolls, and they replied from Zahony to Hegyeshalom that they didn't, they didn't. They don't want any more tax burdens, they want reasonable, modern burdens. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the last week, we have devoted our time to asking the citizens of Hungary in more than 160 parts of the country how they think about their own freedom, whether they would like the shops to be closed on Sunday. The answer was clear: no! Our compatriots don't want you interfering in their lives, disrupting the customs of families, and preventing them from earning the wages you're trying to take from them in seven days. Well, ladies and gentlemen, people are talking about being unacceptable, and more and more are getting fewer and fewer. You have also brought the Hungarian families and the country into crisis. It was a fundamental principle, I'm sure you remember, that the person who works can make a living on his salary, but that's not true now: the person who works doesn't live on it. But, for example, in the public sector, in health care, in the social care system, there are masses living below the minimum level of existence. Meanwhile, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank spends billions on palace investment, various education and training, as a result of which it can only be said that the money is flowing somewhere, but more and more students think that they do not want to continue their studies in Hungary. I would like to say to Mr Secretary of State that we should not talk about immigration, but about emigration in this country. And finally, fellow Members, who have a little more power, must serve a little more; as Pope Francis has said in recent weeks, so do we. [[L. Simon László: Father, Mary!]] just as he is, we reject indifference, beneficial selfishness, through others for others. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Every system that doesn't consider man to be valuable, human values, is doomed to failure. [[They're shutting off his mike.]] It was like...
u2015-02-16-22	Congressman, your time is up. [[József Tobias:...József Schweitzer is a national chief Rabbi whose death is a great loss for all of us. Mr. Speaker, let's remember that and pay our respects with a minute's drive. Thank you very much. Applause from the lines of MSZP, the MSZP fraction and Nándor Gúr stand up in the place of the notary.]] I would ask my fellow Members not to approach the issue from the point of view of the taste of the initiative, but from the fact that, for political reasons, a respectable, well-educated and excellent man has been called here in his dead dust, and he deserves it, if not the faction that initiated it. [[The people in the room - except for the Ancient Novak - stand up.]] Thank you. [[13.50]] Allow me, before I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon, to make a few comments on this disorganizing action that Congressman Tobias has now taken. Honourable Congressman, I do not know if you asked the stakeholders about this initiative. I do not know if you asked - because you have spoken to everyone, as I have heard from your speech in the country recently; it has certainly been a great job - I do not know if you have agreed with your initiative, but I would draw attention to the fact that there have been written and unwritten rules in this House for 25 years. Among the unwritten rules is that we do not bring man, our fellow Members and the entire Parliament into such an uncomfortable situation that the disagreement with your demonstrational action is also a desecration of the memory of a respectable man. Fortunately, this country is abundant in esteemed people, who are mourned by an entire country when they leave the ranks of the living, and so far in 25 years no one has thought to highlight one of these, putting Parliament under virtually moral pressure,. Therefore, repeating once again that Mr. József Schweitzer, Reverend Rabbi Schweitzer - let me say this - I personally respected him even when you didn't even know his name - we all deeply mourn him, we respect his memory, but I ask you and all our fellow Members not to bring the House and the House into such a situation again. If we can't comply with the unwritten rules, then the dignity of that House will pay the price. If we can still have a dialogue in this, if that is what the Member thinks, I would be happy to discuss with you later within the framework of the House, how to do so, but what he has done now, I think, is disrespectful to the memory of the Chief Rabbi. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And now I give the floor to Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2015-02-16-23	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Member, In advance of the address of the speech before the next agenda, Mr Schiffer's speech, there are apparently two Hungarys, or at least you want to behave in this House in such a way as to make it seem to the voters that there are two Hungarys. We believe that there is one Hungary, one nation, and that the current government is the legitimate leader of this united Hungarian nation. I am saying all this, my honourable fellow Member, because I do not know where you have been in the last few weeks, what kind of television and radio declarations you have been listening to, seeing and reading, but we do not know that Hungary's Prime Minister has been publicly threatened, honourable Member. A businessman spoke of Hungary's Prime Minister in a publicly unacceptable style, but this is not a threat. On this issue, we clearly, both the Government and the Prime Minister and the Group, have expressed their position: we are not at war with anyone, the Prime Minister of Hungary is not at war with anyone, we are doing the work that the voters have entrusted us with. By the way, if businessmen, or for business reasons, make such a statement about Hungary's Prime Minister, this will classify them and not us and not Hungary's Prime Minister. Honourable Congressman, Rather, you should account for the thoughts expressed by your own allies in this regard, because I think that the government, whether Mr Group Leader or my fellow Members, has shown themselves in moderation, restraint and culture in this matter. However, one of your main allies, Viktor Szigetvári, said that I am waiting for the position of the Allied KDNP regarding the semen-gate. [[Noise, interruptions from both sides.]] I am confused to say all this, but if you, honourable Member, think that this is the correct expression, that if this alleged threat is not addressed in this way, a party leader should speak in Hungarian public life, then be ashamed of yourself. Shame on Viktor Szigetvári and shame on the MSZP, who acts as an ally with the political assembly led by Viktor Szigetvári! [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP, including Zoltán Gőgös: How do you know that?]] But allow me not to quote it literally, because it does not tolerate printing ink, the voice of your MEP Tibor Szanyi, where he writes that, Lajos, Rogán is also a...! This is my account number, if you know what I mean. He wrote down an OTP account number. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Szanyi is suing me for this.]] Your Member of Parliament, who is supposed to represent this country, this nation, all of us in Brussels, has said so, my honourable fellow Member. [[Noise. For interventions:]] Or was it not him, this is Peter Juhász? [[Noise, interruptions from both sides.]] Ladies and gentlemen, So our position on this issue is clear. We are very pleased about what you said in the second part of your speech, Congressman, that you have heard the people's voice. It's about time, Your Honour. We're also glad you finally asked them this weekend. It should have been the same eight years they steered me. Then they didn't. It was time, thank you for understanding the words of time, finding out why so few people are sitting in Parliament, finding out what they have to do, not doing their political activities against the people, but doing what we do: together with the people, for the people. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Congressman, We wish you good work, and we very much support you for your work to ask people, to listen to what you think, and if you do, you will refrain from speaking to such a low-quality press-proof agenda. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-24	The leader of the Group of the LMP, Mr András Schiffer, will now be next with the title "Two Hungary." Here you go.
u2015-02-16-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On February 6th, the shroud fell, and the outbreak of the band war backfired what the LMP fraction has been talking about here in this House since 2011 about the captured state, the oligarch paradise. Let's see what Lajos Simicska said about his role in Fidesz. My alliance with Orbán was about breaking down dictatorship and the post-communist system. But it wasn't fucking part of this alliance to build another dictatorship instead. Then Lajos Simicska went on elsewhere:.Last April, after the elections, we sat down with Orbán and he told us his ideas. Why he was in such a situation that he could sit down with the Prime Minister, Zsolt Bayer replied: "You know, I know, too, dear Louis, that without you there would be no Fidesz, since 94. Yes, in 2010, they thought that Lajos had to be paid. In 2013 alone or in a consortium, Közép won HUF 432 billion in tender money, more than one billion forints per day. In the previous parliamentary term, the LMP warned about the laws tailored to Lajos Simicska in the House more than 60 times. Whether it was the media empire, the agricultural land, the Paks communication, we were talking about statutory corruption. The Prime Minister's reply was some kind of blabbering about labanc politics, and Gabriella Selmeczi replied, "It is sad that the LMPs are chaining themselves to the entrance of a Hungarian company instead of protecting Hungarian interests, preventing its operation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Compared to this, this so-called Hungarian national capital, together with Strabag, Swietelsky, Euroaszfalt and other labanc companies, won the big life, in Hungarian, and in Hungarian capital, in your case, the focus is on capital. It seems that over the past four years, too many of you and too many of you have come to Radoc Street from your government. In 2014, it seems, the year of turn has come, and the Prime Minister's speech in Tuscany in 2013 also referred to this. In 2014, Közép won a third of the previous year's construction procurement, between HUF 55-85 billion and the amount that Lajos Simicska failed in 2014. Thirteen of the 18 associated officials are no longer in place, except, of course, Ildikó Vida. [[14.00]] That hurt Lajos Simicska, that's why he went sledding. But we already have those who will take their place: Mészáros, Garancsi, Vajna and the others, brother-in-law, comicity, Duna Asphalt, Market and other companies. There's not even a chance that one of them wouldn't be connected to the various oligarchs that are close to you. These new emerging oligarchs justify encrypted Paks procurement, public procurement, MET. Dear Parliament, In this gang war Hungary will lose, it will cost a lot of money to redistribute public funds. These new emerging companies - just like the Public Machine - do not create value, but divide public goods. He also had a quote for Lajos Simicska, which is terribly interesting, and he said, "What if Viktor Orbán suddenly scratches his head and guesses that he will double the key? That's exactly your economic philosophy: keeping everyone unpredictable. And not only does it strike Lajos Simicska that the tax system depends on Viktor Orbán's head scratch, but for example, it hit that Bélan the Great, the 56-year-old disabled pensioner who won a lawsuit in Strasbourg last week against the Hungarian state. After 25 years of work, he won the right to a disability pension of HUF 57,000, and after you pushed the rules back and forth, he seemed to lose that entitlement. The Court of Strasbourg did not think so. Now be men, look in the eyes of Belane the Great and our fellow people, not appeal, but pay back all the invalid pensions that were taken from the people without foundation from the end of 2010. After the change of government in 2018, there will be a world in Hungary where everyone who has been unlawfully withdrawn from the disability pension and his early retirement pension will get it back; and those who are indemnified by foreign currency loans forinted at market prices will also be compensated. And the cover of this is the big money paid to your friends, the visual investments made to your friends, and the cover will be a predictable economic policy. There will be predictable conditions for Bélane Nagy after 2018 as well as for Lajos Simicska. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-26	Once again, Secretary of State L. Simon. Here you go.
u2015-02-16-27	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I have to correct a mistake - from which I can see that the government has self-reflection ability - : the semen-gate was said by Zsolt Gréczy, I read [[József Tobias: Still no good!]] So the semen-gate is Zsolt Gréczy; and the banker is Péter Juhász. So I'm gonna follow the other two politicians. [[Dr. András Schiffer applauds. Zoltán Haughty: Otherwise everything checks out!]] So I'm gonna have to bring up two other allies, including the press. All of this shows that there is a great deal of confusion in this whole issue. I do not want to answer my fellow Member Schiffer particularly because my fellow Member Schiffer reads comics. [[Dr. András Schiffer: What?]] He reads comic books. And he's got a gang war in it that doesn't exist. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Last time I was ten years old...]] Let's be clear about this. There is a parliamentary majority elected in Hungary with a two-thirds mandate. There is a Hungarian government with great legitimacy [[Moore in the ranks of independents behind Jobbik and Jobbik.]] of which Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is the leader. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Answer me!]] This government, knowing the parliamentary majority behind its back, is doing its work for the benefit of Hungarian society, and even the nation-building and unifying nation-wide nation across the borders and beyond. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] In this process, many Hungarian-owned and non-Hungarian-owned enterprises have been and will receive a mandate in the coming years as a result of a public tender. [[Dr. András Schiffer:]] There's one and there's another. [[Dr. András Schiffer: That's it!]] There's no gang war, there's government. [[Dr. András Schiffer:]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-28	At the end of the speeches before the agenda, Mr.Antal Rogán, Head of the Group, shall be the subject of the discussion entitled: "Our Common Things." Here you go.
u2015-02-16-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, So far, the parties have raised questions and comments that are important to the parties, but there are issues that are important to Hungarian families and Hungarian people. If you'll allow me, I would like to discuss these in the Honourable Parliament. [[Dr. András Schiffer: Which families?]] Let us begin by saying that the workplace is an extremely important issue for the Hungarian people, and in the last two months - because we have not met here in Parliament for about two months and the winter session of the Parliament ended before Christmas - we have all seen since Christmas that the Hungarian economy has delivered a very good performance, we have achieved within Europe that unemployment has fallen to the greatest extent, the number of unemployed people has fallen to the greatest extent. We have achieved in recent months - the figures are now clear - that there are also promising prospects for the future, because Hungary is the place where the highest economic growth in Europe was in 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, So they all indicate that Hungary has become a place where there is a promising prospect for the future, and there is an encouraging perspective. At the same time, there are some dangers that we must speak frankly about in the Honourable Parliament. We need to talk about - because the threat to Hungarian families - the fact that the Hungarian government and the Hungarian Parliament will have to put a great deal of emphasis on what is happening east of our borders, how the particular, strange war that has taken place in Ukraine, is the conflict that has ended in a ceasefire. And we hope that it will stay that way, because Hungary and the Hungarian people have been on the side of peace all along, just as the government has been on the side of peace, but this, of course, threatens the performance of the Hungarian economy, threatens our Hungarian compatriots living in Transcarpathia, and represents a permanent standby situation for Hungary. We also need to talk, ladies and gentlemen, about the fact that in recent months the data that are a threat to Hungary from the point of view of the refugee situation has become apparent. In the last two months we have learned the data that since we changed the practice on refugees in Hungary at the end of 2012, the number of so-called political refugees arriving in Hungary has increased 20 times since then. [[Szabó Timea: Exactly!]] We must speak frankly about the fact that the more than 43 thousand people who are trying to enter the European Union through Hungary are now the second largest number in the whole European Union. Italy is the place where perhaps most refugees are trying to get into the European Union, but immediately afterwards Hungary is next. We must also speak frankly, ladies and gentlemen, that the situation has not improved in this area since December, but has deteriorated explicitly. It deteriorated in the fact that in January the number of refugees arriving in Hungary reached almost half of the total number of refugees arriving last year. So we need to talk about how we want to deal with this problem. Ladies and gentlemen, The attitude of the European Union is likely to change in this area, but we believe that Hungary does not have time to wait for this. Hungary is not able, although we have significantly reduced unemployment, to create a large number of jobs for refugees. Hungary is not able to receive a large number of living immigrants. We therefore believe that Parliament and Parliament should take action on this issue. But what we must see, ladies and gentlemen, is that we can only use an effective solution if we go back to the practice that we used before 2012 and maybe even tighten it up. [[Szabó Timea: What?]] if we are to say clearly that we are going to place immigrants of living in Hungary under foreign police custody. [[Szabó Timea: That's the way it has been!]] until such time as their application has been examined, controlled and subsequently expelled as soon as possible from the country by those who are not entitled to refugee status. [[Szabó Timea: That's what's happened so far!]] We must see that if we would return to this practice, which was before 2012, then, fellow Members, we will again face the European Union. In recent years, the Hungarian Government has tried to reach an agreement every time an infringement procedure has been conducted against us. However, we cannot reach an agreement on this issue, and we must take action here. Therefore, I would also like to ask the Government here with respect to the public of Parliament to hold a national consultation on this issue, to obtain the support of Hungarian families, because we want to see clearly how people think on this issue. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-30	Once again, the floor is for Secretary of State L. Simon László.
u2015-02-16-31	Thank you very much. Dear Chief of Staff, Mr President, Dear House, All the issues that the Group leader has dealt with in his speech are indeed serious issues affecting the Hungarian society as a whole. With regard to the crisis in Ukraine, I believe that we have received very thorough and accurate information today from Minister Szijjártó and the leaders of the parliamentary factions were informed by Prime Minister at the end of the week. All decent Hungarians have the same interest: peace in Ukraine, and this peace is primarily in the interest of the Hungarian minority in Transcarpathia. I therefore do not wish to say any more about this. However, what Mr Group leader has said about immigration is a serious problem. Today, in the emerging media debate, opposition speakers and intellectuals calling themselves experts are trying to prove that this is just some kind of communication from the government or from the pro-government faction. This morning we heard directly from the leader of the Hungarian Liberal Party on Kossuth radio, Gábor Fodor, who is currently in parliament, that this is not really a serious problem, only the government is trying to exaggerate it as a diversionary operation, distracting attention from other important problems. [[14.10]] I must add a few figures to what the Member has just said, because we are indeed there today, at the beginning of 2015 so that immigration to Hungary will take second place in Europe. Consider, ladies and gentlemen, that while the total number of immigrants from North Africa to the Western Mediterranean in 2014 was 7842 - 7842 - during the same period, the number of people who entered the European Union illegally from the Western Balkans through Hungary was 43 357. This speaks for itself, fellow Members. I shouldn't even say the additional numbers, but in order to make it clear to my fellow Members why the Government intends to launch a national consultation on this issue, I would like to draw your attention to a few numbers. [[Szabó Timea: They don't know the basics!]] It is true what you said, Mr President, that there is a 20-fold increase in immigration over two years, but if we break it down to different populations and countries, we will get much more serious data. [[Szabó Timea intervenes.]] Let us look at the refugees in Kosovo, ladies and gentlemen. In 2012, 226 refugees in Kosovo crossed Hungary's borders illegally - 226. In 2013, this increased to 6212, then in 2014 it became 21 453. This, fellow Members, is a hundredfold increase. With regard to Kosovo, the number of illegal immigrants has increased 100 times over two years. [[Noise. Interventions on the opposition side.]] Overall, we can say that while in 2012, 2187 illegally crossed Hungary's borders [[The president's ringing the bell.]] , in 2013 18 900, until 2014 42 777. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not the government's insinuation that we are facing today that in a month and a half 25,000 people have crossed borders in the same way; 25,000 people have crossed illegally this year in January and the first two weeks of February. Ladies and gentlemen, You can bury your heads in the sand, you can say that this is just the government's problem, you can yell at me, and you can disturb my contribution, my honourable fellow Member, but if you asked the individual representatives who are doing their work in the southern part of Hungary, you would know exactly how much pain this is, and what a great challenge and burden it is for Hungarian politicians, the Hungarian politicians who really work for Hungarian voters, for all of us, honourable Member [[Szabó Timea: This is a burning pain for you!]] And then he wouldn't yell at me. For this reason, I can promise the Group leader that the Government, listening to what my fellow Members said at the Group meeting, will launch a national consultation on this issue, and in this context we will try to identify the right steps that the majority of Hungarian society will be satisfied with and agree with. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-32	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Nándor Gúr to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2015-02-16-33	Dear Parliament, Today he applied for a speech after the agenda: Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Tamás Turgyán, speaker; István Szávay, Jobbik; Ander Balázs, Jobbik; Ikotity István, LMP; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Márta Demeter, MSZP. On Wednesday, the following representatives applied for a speech before the agenda: Bernadett Szél, LMP; Bertalan Tóth, MSZP; Dóra Dúró, Jobbik; István Simicskó, KDNP; Bence Tuzson, Fidesz. On Wednesday he applied for a speech after the agenda: László György Lukács, Jobbik; István Ikotity, LMP; Márta Demeter, MSZP.
u2015-02-16-34	Dear House, I would like to inform you that all Members of the 197 Members of Parliament have submitted their own and/or family's declarations of property within the deadline. The declarations of property are open to the public and can be viewed on the National Assembly's website. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Mr Zoltán Gőgös has received a motion to waive his immunity from the District Court of Debrecen in a private case, and I have issued it to the Committee on immunity for examination. The committee discussed the initiative and the decision will take place today. Dear House, I would like to inform you that there has been no consensus between the House Committee and the representatives of the factions on the proposed working schedule of the 2015 Spring Session of the Parliament, and therefore Parliamentary Act 13. Pursuant to paragraph 6 of Section 6 of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the working order. Dear Parliament, I would ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the proposed working schedule.
u2015-02-16-35	Dear Parliament, Parliament's decision on the working schedule of the spring 2015 session. The Parliament will meet on 16 February 2015 as follows: 16 February and 18 Monday and Wednesday; 20 February and 23 Friday and Monday; 2 March 3-4-5. and 9 March, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Monday; 16 March 17-18-19 March, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Monday; 30 March 31, 1-2 April and 7 April, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Tuesday, 6 April due to Easter Monday; 13-14-15-16 April, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Monday; 27-28-29-30 May, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Monday; 11-12 May, Tuesday and Monday, 19 May, Tuesday and Monday; 15-18 May, the NATO Spring Assembly will take place between 26-27-28-29 May, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday; 25 May, Monday, Monday, 1 June, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, June, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, June, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, June, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday, Monday Detailed debates will be held by Parliament's committees during the second week of plenary sessions. On Friday, Members shall carry out other duties related to their mandates. Agendas for plenary sessions: 16 and 18 February, Monday, Wednesday and agendas for the 20 and 23 February, Friday and Monday meetings are included in the agenda proposals for each meeting. Agendas for plenary sessions from 2 March 2015 to the first week of the meeting, Monday: beginning at 13 a.m., speeches before the agenda from approximately 13 to 14 a.m.; adoption of agendas; decisions from approximately 14 a.m. to 16 a.m.; interviews between 14 to 16 a.m.; immediate questions and answers between 16 to 17 a.m.; decisions from approximately 17 a.m.; completion after discussion of the agenda items. Starting Tuesday at 9 a.m. with speeches before the agenda from 9 a.m. to 10 a.m.; decisions from approximately 10 a.m.; completion after discussion of the items on the agenda. Starting on Wednesday at 9 a.m., finishing after discussing the items on the agenda. Start Thursday at 9:00 p.m., finish after the agenda points have been discussed. In the second week of the meeting, beginning on Monday at 11 a.m. with speeches before the agenda between 11 and 12 a.m.; questions between 12 and 13 a.m. and 30 a.m. During the second week of the meetings, the speeches before the agenda shall be submitted by a derogation from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure adopted by the Parliament at its meeting on 16 February 2015. The Speaker may convene Parliament's meetings for other days as necessary. Parliament may derogate from the working order after voting on the adoption of the agenda of the sitting as necessary.
u2015-02-16-36	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Farkas, the Jobbik's representative, in a three-minute time frame.
u2015-02-16-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have to start by saying that I am always glad that housekeeping is improving, and that this year we have already been assigned seating cards, which are usually waiting for us at this time of the meeting, and from this I can see that you have seen that it is completely unnecessary, because reality has nothing to do with what you set out in advance, and this, I think, is also a criticism of the meeting and legislative practice of the past four and a half years. On this new two-week meeting order, we must also say that this is a false debate, a false question, because this is not the real question of a week- or two-week meeting, but when the government and the Fidesz faction will finally convert to the order of providing proposals in a predictable, predictable and timely manner, they leave enough time to do so, because in the past four and a half years there has been no such thing. [[14.20]] Rather, it was an example that laws had to be passed constantly away from house rules, a few days were left from the submission of the law to the adoption of them so that opposition groups could look at them at all, comment, no substantive debate in Parliament, no negotiations could be held, and numerous amendments were made to these bill proposals. In the Legislative Committee, it has become regular that a reading break is required to enable Members to look at the ten-page amendments they have issued there at all so that they know what they need to vote on a few minutes later. So this exercise is outrageous, and the main issue here is not a week-and-two-week meeting - because this is a false argument, a false question - but when your government and your faction will finally be able to plan, predictablely, to make sure that legislation really takes place here in accordance with Parliament's dignity. What is a problem with this two-week meeting, however, is the Monday of the second week, which, by not having any interpellations, no need for a quorum, will be completely devalued, because there will be empty benches here against us, the State Secretarys will answer the questions themselves. I believe that, instead of strengthening the belief in society that there is meaningful work going on here, you are taking steps in the opposite direction, and that you will make it even more insignificant, and that Parliament's work on the part of society, on the part of voters, will become even more a laughing stock. This is the big problem with this, and the problem is that for example, interpellations, which is a serious opportunity for Parliament to exercise the government's control powers, will only be possible every two weeks. It is true that the same timeframe will be available, but it does not matter whether every two weeks there is an opportunity for you to vote, or we can do so every week. All in all, therefore, we continue to regard it as a false dispute, not as the main issue, but when you will switch to making legislation predictable. This is what we should be working on rather than disincentivising Parliament's work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-16-38	Congresswoman Bernadett Wind is next as a representative of the LMP. Here you go.
u2015-02-16-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it has been a long time since you have heard that this is what you are about to do, to move on to a two-week term. This has now occurred, and it is feared that this will result in a further reduction in the rights of the opposition, which is why the LMP Group has asked us to review the experience in the light of experience in the summer, what this new agenda has not only resulted in in the House's dignity and the opposition's control powers, but also what citizens think about what you have caused in this Parliamentary work, and how we can better represent them in the weekly cycle or in the two-week cycle. Interpellations are indeed a painful point, although the LMP has managed not to reduce this time interval to an hour and a half every two weeks, but to keep it two hours, but I would add that two hours every two weeks is not equal to one hour a week, because the political agenda is so fast that it would certainly be more useful if we could ask you weekly about what you think about certain cardinal issues. We won't be able to do that from now on. I also objected to the fact that it is not possible to know what will happen to television broadcasts, because not only do we want to control you, but citizens all check us when they watch our work on television in here. In a specific way, my questions about this have been rejected in a rather cynical way. I would like you to pay more attention to the fact that the entire parliamentary work can be followed up for each Hungarian citizen. This is exactly what the public service function means by allowing such requests and such claims. I also find it problematic, and it is obviously more convenient for you not to travel up to Budapest every week, but I really think that it will be that voters will be welcomed every two weeks by the sight of a deserted Chamber, which they are accustomed to from the previous term, but that it will be quite clear that no meaningful work is taking place, because with this proposal you will also move Parliament in a direction that makes our work virtually difficult and reduces our right to control. I also find it problematic that your attitude has not changed over the last few years, even though you have received a number of feedback that you do not like the Hungarian people. You're the ones who stopped thinking, turned into button-printing representatives. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] There are no substantive debates in this Chamber, and there are no substantive debates in the committees. They were able to vote down the LMP motion on MET today without simply saying why they were doing it. I think that the greatest threat to Parliament's dignity is the sitting of Members who do not justify their decisions and the introduction of a working order in which they do not even have to be in here at specified intervals, so that they have to answer certain questions, for example, to the press staff. Overall, the LMP fraction [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] You will vote against this motion.
u2015-02-16-40	The floor now belongs to Mr Attila Harangozó MSZP representative.
u2015-02-16-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We have also said after the House Committee meeting, we have not changed our opinion, this proposal is abusive, because the Parliamentary Act, the House Rule, is designed for weekly meetings, and you do not amend these laws, but you intend to circumvent these laws by simply voting on the agenda or by way of house rules. On the other hand, it undermines opposition rights. It doesn't have to go far, the point is that weekly interpellation opportunities are taken away from the opposition, and you can only use this tool every two weeks, and it doesn't change that if you have more time every two weeks. But most importantly, it does not guarantee predictable better regulation, which is allegedly the most important part of this proposal. The opening of Parliament and the meeting of this week is the main point, since Mr President sent out his proposal in writing before the House Committee meeting, so that Parliament's meeting would have started on this schedule as of Monday, and it turned out that the government was bringing forward two new legislative proposals to Parliament that immediately put this idea to death, he immediately lied that otherwise this proposal could be launched this week. They're talking about March 1st. We don't see the guarantee that that's gonna work out either. What's this about? It is precisely this week, my fellow Members, that we are proposing to negotiate two laws in exceptional proceedings, and in total three laws that we have to negotiate because you are making laws in a hasty, incompetent, invaluable way. One of these is the EKAER, the road goods control system, which endangers thousands and tens of thousands of businesses with their bad functioning, such as the correction of their foreign exchange-credit law, which was also accepted with a great deal of urgency, and such is the excise law, which destroyed almost a whole sector, and you may remember that in January there was a serious message between the Fidesz fraction and the government, who was right about it then. Finally, most importantly, the real reason has also been mentioned in the House Committee, ladies and gentlemen, the point is that you do not need to be present in Parliament during the second week, in Hungarian, the representatives of the majority of the governing parties not only after double pay, after the ministerial commissioner and other double allowances, but do not want to go to work every two weeks. That's what the story is, everything else is powder. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-42	Now it's László Varju's turn.
u2015-02-16-43	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, It is no wonder that the House Committee did not agree on how the work schedule should be developed, since what appears in the proposal is clearly unacceptable. The reason for this can, of course, be listed in many chapters, and some of which we have already heard, but one of the main problems is that the preparation of what you are presenting here is such that it leaves a lot to debate. Therefore, this form of work cannot be supported. In particular, it is a problem if you do not want to change this previous practice, and, for example, in such a way as today's amendment of the draft bill to the Committee on Economic Affairs comes in hiding on an ad hoc basis while the government is initiating it; this, in any way, I think, makes no sense. If you will be able to carry out the preparatory work in such a way that a substantive debate can take place, then perhaps there will be a work order that can be supported. At the same time, they have a previous promise, which has not been complied with so far, that committee meetings have not been given sufficient publicity, so, of course, the opposition parties and therefore the Democratic Coalition are interested in yes, there is more to be said here in plenary. [[14.30]] But the fact that you place the real area of legislation and hide it for committee meetings and then otherwise try to cover it up is unacceptable, and in this form it is in no way eligible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause among the non-attached Members.]]
u2015-02-16-44	This is Congressman Gulyás Gergely, on behalf of Fidesz.
u2015-02-16-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Following the adoption of the new house rule, part of the detailed debate was indeed transferred to the committees. We had already indicated that the new house rules did not change the fact that the House could operate under both seven and two weeks' and three weeks' sitting arrangements; this was also the case with the previous house rules. However, I do not think it is possible to argue that more planned legislation requires that the parliamentary week be followed more by a week of work in committee, and that the Commission's work should have an appropriate weight, and that it is a good time for us to make use of it. As far as the public is concerned, I would like to inform Congressman Varju that, following the opposition request, we have made it possible for each meeting of the Legislative Committee to be broadcast to any TV company. [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Thank you.]] ; the same conditions apply to the work of the Legislative Committee as they apply to Parliament's plenary session. With regard to opposition powers: the opposition's control powers will not be undermined in any way in the new system [[Dr. Tamás Attila Bellozó: Interpellation!]] It is possible to ask the opposition representatives an immediate question every week in exactly the way it has been before. To clarify matters that raise immediate political questions, it has been the institution of the immediate question; and it will be possible to interpell at the same time as before and on the condition of the questions. The opposition always refers to international practice. We can say that there are no seven seating arrangements in many Member States of the European Union [[Intervention in the ranks of the MSZP: These are working countries!]] Neither Austria, Germany, nor any of the Visegrád states, but there are no weekly seating arrangements in France, Lithuania and Slovenia. There will continue to be a weekly seating schedule in Hungary, just in order to allow all opposition groups to exercise opposition powers during the second week. This is why we do not understand why the opposition cannot support this absolutely well-intentioned proposal, which, by the way, slows down legislation in substance. If you look at how long it takes to adopt a law after that, you will see that while a law could be adopted in four weeks, this will now be five weeks under normal procedure, so legislation will also slow down in this sense. Finally, I would like to mention why a derogation from house rules is now needed and what opposition representatives are voting on. Deviation from house rules will allow for a statement before the agenda in the second week. So, when we decide to derogate from house rules now, opposition representatives must decide whether they want to make use of the second floor before the agenda, also on week B. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Our faction will support this. We would like you to have no control over any of your powers, so if you decide and support the departure from house rules, there will not be any opposition control powers in this respect to the slightest extent. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-46	Now it's Parliament's decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the proposed schedule of work of the 2015 Spring Session. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House adopted a proposal for a working order by 117 votes in favour, 50 against and no abstentions. Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time, the speaker's speeches will be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. A derogation from the house rules concerning the order of speeches outside the agenda follows a series of decisions. There was no consensus at the House Committee on this issue, so I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present my proposal as President.
u2015-02-16-47	Proposal for a derogation from the regulatory provisions of the Decision. XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly Act No. 13 Acting in my power under paragraph 6 of Section 6 of the Act, in view of the fact that the House Committee has not reached a complete agreement on the derogation from the House Rules of Procedure, I propose the following to Parliament. At the spring session of 2015, if the Parliament adopts its agenda for several weeks, the House Rules of Decision 18. When dealing with exceptional matters within the meaning of Article 5 of the Rules of Procedure, it shall depart from the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in such a way that, on behalf of the group, its leader or the member of the group invited by him - the House of Decisions Act 18. In addition to the possibility provided for in paragraph 5 of Section 5, the speaker shall be entitled to speak outside the agenda on the other day of the second week of the meeting set out on the agenda, with the intention to speak to the group leader to notify the Speaker in writing not later than one hour before the opening of the first day of the second week.
u2015-02-16-48	Dear House, I am asking my fellow Members if they will contribute to the departure from the house rules. Now vote, please. [[Vote.]] The House agreed to derogate from the house rules by 142 votes in favour, 9 against and 22 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now time for a decision to be taken to derogate from the house rules for the discussion of questions. There was no consensus on this issue either at the House Committee meeting, and I therefore call on Mr Nándor Gúr to present the proposal put forward by the President.
u2015-02-16-49	Proposal for a derogation from the regulatory provisions of the Decision. XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly Act No. 13 Acting in my power under paragraph 6 of Section 6 of the Act, in view of the fact that the House Committee has not reached a complete agreement on the derogation from the House Rules of Procedure, I propose the following to Parliament. The Parliament shall, at its spring session in 2015, if it adopts its agenda for several weeks, depart from the rules of the House of Decisions in the course of the discussion of the questions in such a way that on the day of the second week of the meeting containing the item on the agenda of the questions, only the question which was submitted at 9.30 a.m. on the working day preceding the sitting may be discussed.
u2015-02-16-50	I am asking this House whether it accepts a derogation from the house rules. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted a motion for a derogation from house rules by 143 votes to 31, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the negotiation of two proposals in exceptional proceedings. The Government has initiated T/3117 on the amendment of consumer loan agreements between financial institutions and other private law laws. During the exceptional procedure for the submission of the amendment proposals, the joint debate shall be held on 18 February and the final vote shall take place on 20 February. Rule 62 of the House Rules Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on the hearing in exceptional proceedings without debate. I would like to draw your attention to the need for a vote in favour of more than half of the Members, namely 99 Members. Now it's time for decision-making. I ask the House whether it accepts T/3117. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the motion by 143 votes to eight, with 23 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the House Rules of Decision 62. According to Section 5 of the Acting Committee, in the exceptional procedure, the detailed discussion of the proposal will be conducted. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted for 17 hours and 40 minutes. A consolidated debate on the bill will take place on 18 February and a decision on the draft amendment and the final vote will take place on 20 February. [[14.40]] Dear Parliament, The Government initiated the Parliament's special procedure to discuss the 2003 XCII on the rules of taxation. T/3118 amending Act T/3118 on the Electronic Road Traffic Control System Submitted by the European Parliament and the Council pursuant to Article 1 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The Government has initiated the possibility of submitting amendments within three hours of the decision on the exceptional procedure; the consolidated debate will take place on 18 February; the decision on the summary amendment proposal and the final vote will take place on 20 February. Rule 62 of the House Rules The Parliament therefore decides, without discussion, on the basis of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article, on the negotiation of an exceptional procedure by an absolute majority of Members. Now it's time for decision-making. I'm asking you if T/3118 is accepted. Submitted in exceptional proceedings pursuant to the national motion. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the motion was adopted by the House by 144 votes to eight, with 21 abstentions. Dear House, I would like to inform you that the House Rules of Decision 62. According to Section 5 of the Acting Committee, in the exceptional procedure, the detailed discussion of the proposal will be conducted. In accordance with our agreed decision, amendments can be submitted within a further three hours today, i.e. 17 hours 41 minutes. A consolidated debate on the bill will take place on 18 February and a decision on the draft amendment and a final vote on the 20 February meeting. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group suggested that T/2250 on investment in maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and amending certain laws in this regard. The general discussion of bill No. 18 of 18 February shall not take place. Anyone who agrees with that, vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: He did not accept it!]] Should we count it? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Yes! Noise.]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the recommendation on the agenda put forward by the President. I announce that the first day of Wednesday is T/3118. A consolidated debate will take place on bill number T/3117, and second on T/3117. There will be a debate on the legislative proposal No. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear House, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Dear Parliament, At the meeting of the House Committee on Thursday, he proposed that the Parliament ask the negotiating committee to decide on the implementation of the defence tasks in 2013, the report on the preparation, state and development of the Hungarian Defence Office, presented with a secret rating. Rule 85 of the Rules of Procedure Pursuant to § (1) of the Act, the Parliament shall decide on this without debate. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to explain to the House Committee B/2456/2. The Committee would like to make a proposal on this subject.
u2015-02-16-51	Dear Parliament, The House Committee's proposal to request a committee to decide on a report. The House Committee is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law 27/B. Article 2 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 10/2014 on certain house rules. Parliamentary resolution 85. Based on the powers set out in Article 2 (1) of the Act, the Parliament proposes to the Parliament that the secret B/2456 on the implementation of defence tasks in 2013 and the preparation, state and development of the Hungarian Defence Agency. In the event of a report, the designated National Defence and Police Committee shall be invited to take a decision on the report.
u2015-02-16-52	I ask this House whether the designated Defence and Police Committee will be invited by B/2456. For decisions to be made in the accounts of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I find that the House has adopted the proposal by 165 votes to none, with no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal for the election of a committee official and members. In my capacity as President, I have put forward personal proposals S/3121. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The National Assembly to the People's Welfare Committee Péter Csizi instead of Mr László Kucsák as Vice-President of the Committee; to the Economic Committee János Latorcai Jenő Manninger as former member; to the National Security Committee instead of Dénes Galambos Péter Csizi; to the People's Welfare Committee Kucsák as Vice-President Márius Révész instead of László; to the Business Development Committee Gábor Móring József Attila has previously become vacant; to the Legislative Committee, Dénes Galambos, Ákos Kara elects Gergely Tapolczai as a member of the Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House adopted the personal proposal by 171 votes to one, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is up to you to discuss and decide on the immunity case. The immunity committee at the Debrecen District Court's request is H/3069. Mr Zoltán Gőgös presented a proposal for a resolution on his immunity. I give the floor to President Imre Vejkey, who intends to give oral reasons for the committee's proposal within a five-minute time frame.
u2015-02-16-53	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The District Court of Debrecen 5-B-1080/2014-5. In his transcript No. 13, Zoltán Gőgös made a motion to suspend the immunity of the MP on the basis of the complaint of Dr. Péter Kun. According to the complaint, on Hajdú Online as well as on the official website of MSZP on February 25, 2014 the untrue announcement was published under the heading [[Mr. Novak intervenes.]] At the official press conference, Congressman Zoltán Gőgös stated that the distribution of the land was carried out by Péter Kun's puppetage, he was the chairman of the jury, but at the same time he himself won over 600 hectares of land, which raises suspicion of conflict of interest. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. Forebod Novak: Double the truth!]] According to the complaint, these statements are false, and slanderous information is communicated to the public as a fact. [[Forebod Novak: How many districts at once?]] The complainant also stated that although the applicant was involved in the land lease tender announced by the board of Hortobágy National Park, there is no basis for any statement that he would have been involved in the decision. The immunity committee discussed the matter at its meeting on 11 February 2015. Zoltán Gőgös personally attended the meeting and said that he later withdrew from his published statement that Peter Kun was the chairman of the jury. In addition, MEP Zoltán Gőgös maintained his earlier statements because, in his view, the majority of his statement is in line with the facts. Representative Zoltán Gőgös has expressly requested the suspension of his immunity before the immunity committee. In the absence of powers, the immunity committee did not deal with the criminal evaluation of the act. His practice of upholding immunity in private cases aims to ensure the objective of immunity, the smooth work of Parliament and Members. The immunity committee has 4 yeses, 2 votes against and 10/2014 on certain house rules. Parliamentary resolution 146. As a proposal for a decision submitted pursuant to paragraph 5 (b), Parliament proposes that the parliamentary representative Zoltán Gőgös not suspend his immunity in the case in question. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-02-16-54	I would like to ask the Member if he wishes to make use of the five-minute time frame. [[Zoltán Pride: No, thank you.]] He doesn't want to. It's up to you to make a decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position that the Member's immunity will not be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. [[14.50]] I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of Zoltán Gőgös, MP. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the House did not suspend the immunity of the Member by 21 votes in favour, 144 against, with two abstentions. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of our decision-making process. We will now continue our work by negotiating interpellations. I would like to inform you that the Speaker of Parliament is the President of the Rules of Procedure 124. Paragraph 4 (a), point 124. Ms Loránt Hegedűs K/2841. Mr Balog, Minister of Human Resources, did not take part in the mandate of Mr Balog, Minister of Human Resources, because the motion did not fall within the mandate of Minister Zoltán Balog. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of the Interior:, Will there be consequences of abuse of power? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-16-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As memorable, in September of last year, the police mobilized enormous forces and spectacularly invaded the headquarters of the Norwegian Fund Foundation for Ecotárs Alapítvány and searched the apartment of its colleagues. This was not simply an unprofessional, over-insured police action. Demonstrative exodus and hard action were not part of the action, but an explicit goal. This demonstration of strength was intended for a number of active, professional and social policy ideas of civil society organisations. The message is clear: civil resistance is useless, the Orbán regime can deal with even a serious professional team, significant resources and an organisation with an international background, if you like. He's doing all this arbitraryly, illegally, misuse of his power. This is no longer simply an accusation made by the opposition, but a fact recorded in the final decision of the court. The court stated that the search and seizure carried out was illegal because there was no suspicion of a crime at the time. So all indications are that the police have served political interests in breaking the law and using force against a civilian organization. The only question is that this is due to direct political order or the coercion of certain police leaders. I call on the Secretary of State to explain how the police could become a means of intimidation of civilians in the hands of the government here, in the public presence of the Parliament. Will abuse of power have consequences? Are you going to investigate who is responsible for ordering illegal search, for raping respected people? According to the Service Act, it is necessary to draw the magistrate's attention to the unlawful nature of the order. I ask Mr. Secretary of State if there was such a signal, or if the police didn't notice the roaring lawlessness. What will be the fate of the seized documents, given that evidence obtained unlawfully cannot be used in any proceedings? Have the illegally seized documents been handed over to Kehi, or are they the basis for the completed report? In addition, give an answer when you will publicly follow the relevant civil society organisations and the Norwegian Government on behalf of the whole government. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-02-16-56	Secretary of State Károly Kontrat has the floor.
u2015-02-16-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On one occasion, the police became a means of intimidation of civilians in the hands of the government, but it was not now, but in October 2006, honourable Member. [[Noise in the ranks of the opposition and the independent.]] Your question is absurd...
u2015-02-16-58	[[Zsuzsanna Szelényi:]] Congresswoman, calm down or see a doctor. Here you go.
u2015-02-16-59	Your question is absurd, given the fact that it suggests that if a decision of the investigating authority taken within the framework of law were to be interpreted as a liability issue in the light of a subsequent judicial decision, it could lead to the fact that in the criminal proceedings ending with the dismissal or termination of proceedings, the investigating authority's indictment proposal and, moreover, the prosecutor's indictment, and even in the case of a second instance court judgment which changed the judgment of the Court of First Instance, should be sought. On the basis of a complaint, the investigating authority may take three decisions, Congressman: it may refuse, order a supplementary report or an investigation. The content and time limits of all three decisions are defined in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Act. On this basis, therefore, the investigating authority must decide at that time, and not at any other time, on the basis of the data available at that time. In a rule of law, the judiciary is an independent branch of power, and therefore everything the investigating authority and the prosecutor's office consider justified and justified, the court can, of course, overrule it. The independence of the judiciary is also shown by the fact that in the same case another court rejected a complaint lodged by another complainant which also complained of a search for a house in October 2014. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] It is important to point out that, in the context of the general and specific conditions for ordering a search, the court examined the data available to the police only at the time of the ordering of the search, i.e. on 5 September 2014, and therefore may be seriously misleading to suggest that the court has taken decisions on the merits of the whole case, Member. Therefore, in view of the fact that, in the context of the exercise of judicial supervision of the prosecution, the legality of the measure has already been investigated in two cases, it is not considered appropriate to order further investigation into the determination of liability. In view of the suspicion of fiscal fraud in the course of the procedure, the Budapest V. and XIII. The District Attorney General has designated the National Tax and Customs Office for the conduct of the proceedings and they are therefore entitled to provide information on the further fate of the seized documents. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-60	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I respectfully welcome my fellow Members and ask the Member if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2015-02-16-61	Thank you very much for the floor. On the subject of 2006, I would like to ask the Secretary of State to ask Károly Papp, the current national police commissioner, Sándor Pintér, before making another accusation, who, by the way, conducted the investigation at the time, and called the 2006 police events a legitimate but unprofessional measure. Right now, he's your national police commissioner. Mr. Secretary. There was a final, illegal attack on civilians. I asked simple questions: who was responsible, who issued the order and whether the illegal evidence came into the Kehi report, whether it was part of the Kehi report, so whether or not the János Lázár report was illegal. You'll have to answer those questions sooner or later, Mr. Secretary. Your answer is therefore unacceptable. What I didn't understand in the end was that now the NAV will be investigating the police or Sándor Pintér. I didn't quite understand that, but I'll look back on the report. [[Károly Kontra: Pay more attention, Congressman.]] Your answer is unacceptable. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-62	Thank you very much. Congressman, you didn't accept the answer. I'm asking the Parliament to accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 96 votes in favour, 46 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:. Why is the Hungarian economy performing worse? It's an address. Mr János Volner has the floor.
u2015-02-16-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, There is a regular debate between the government and the opposition on whether the economy is performing better than you say, or, on the contrary, the country is in deep flight. The government claims that GDP is growing, that the economy is growing, and thus represents an equal sign of employment, prosperity growth and economic growth. But let us think about this: what does GDP growth show? Since the change of regime, GDP has increased in Hungary for more than 20 years. Hungarian people have to ask themselves when they lived better: at the time of the change of regime, was there a higher standard of living, or was there a higher standard of living? When was the safety of life greater, at the time of the change of regime or at the moment? With GDP growth, you are constantly trying to create the impression that if GDP grows, it will be better for everyone and prosperity will increase. Well, we're seeing the opposite in the country right now. [[15.00]] It is worth looking at, for example, how wages turned out compared to April 2010, what changes have been made in this area. The government shows wage growth, but it does so in an increasingly weakening national currency, in the forint. For example, if we compare net average wages in Hungary by April 2010, in April 2010 the net average wage in Hungary was EUR 525, at present EUR 500. Thus, wages in the euro have fallen, and compared to this, we see, for example, that the increase in wages has increased from 1530 to 1610 in Austria, Slovakia and Romania. What's this about? As a result of your policy, our national currency has been devalued, and the work of the Hungarian people has also been devalued at international level, thanks to the government's policy. This is worth less and less in euro. You can also see that the government's policy has caused significant losses to Hungarian people, because in a economy where things are going well, where economic activity is taking place, there are thousands of apartments, compared to that, Mr State Secretary, when we look at, say, the period 2003-2004, 43-44 thousand apartments were built every year, and now only about eight of them are built in Hungary. So we can see a significant setback in this area as well. It is quite obvious that the government policy you are talking about is a liar, and the Hungarian people are getting worse and worse. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-16-64	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-02-16-65	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I admit honestly that when I saw your interpellation, I first thought that you were in a funny mood, or that Jobbik came out, that you personally had a sense of humor when you talked about the fact that the Hungarian economy is doing worse, or that the economy's performance is going downhill, because it also says so in your interpellation. And then I saw him do the interpellation on Wednesday, February 11th, and, uh, the latest economic growth figures came out on Friday. I thought he might withdraw his interpellation, but, to my full surprise, he told me what was more, he added it orally. The point is that the whole of Europe, the London analysts, the international financial world, sees badly the performance of the Hungarian economy, the performance that is best now in the European Union. In view of 2014 Hungary's economic growth rate is 3.5 percent, two out of the 28 Member States were able to achieve performances above 3 percent, one Poland, but Poland was also behind us with its 3.1 percent performance. To interpret this in the Hungarian Parliament so that this performance is bad, the Hungarian economy is declining, obviously it cannot be said seriously, perhaps someone is saying this in a humorous mood, or simply not speaking reality. This may be what the opposition party wants the Hungarian economy to fall, so that there will be no economic growth and performance, so that wages in Hungary will not increase in real terms, but will decrease. This may be what you want, because an opposition party may hope for political gain. But it's not real. You even use the devious trick of starting to count the Hungarian people's salaries in euro, as if we were paying the euro at the gas station or in the shops. But we pay in forints. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Payment in HUF means that, for example, real income increased by 3 percent in 2014, but in the previous years Hungarian people's income increased every year during the Fidesz administration. And these are facts; these are facts, statistical facts. Your attitude and perception is very interesting, while Hungary is recognized, say, for its actions for foreign exchange legitimists, in other countries, to be shown to be chosen by the government, such as Romania, as the Hungarian government. Or in the European Union, the Hungarian government alone dared to reduce the rent. Or the Hungarian people have also achieved the result that the increase in employment in the European Union is the highest in us, while inflation is -1.4 percent, one of the best performances in the European Union. The problem with your perception and attitude is that you're not criticizing the government, because you can't criticize the government. The numbers are numbers, the facts are facts. The problem is that you are looking at the Hungarian people... - how can I say that you underestimate the performance of the Hungarian people with such speeches, that while the country, the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian people, you say that the situation is worse and worse in Europe. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-16-66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll ask Congressman if he'll accept the answer.
u2015-02-16-67	I cannot, of course, accept the answer; Mr Secretary of State was unable to understand my question. I was talking about the government constantly stressing that GDP is growing, but since the change of regime, GDP has been growing for over 20 years, Mr. Secretary of State, and since then this country has been falling. You and the socialists managed to steal it together in their own government cycles. What we must now see, however, is that the Hungarian wage in euro does not catch up with the German and Western European wage levels, but the average wage in euro, Mr. Secretary of State, while wages in Western Europe, Romania and Slovakia have, on the contrary, increased, Mr. Secretary of State. It's black and white that you're putting this country on a slope. The fact that you show growth in the increasingly weakening, power-loss forint means nothing but that Árpád Habony, the government's PR consultant, worked well. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-16-68	Thank you very much. Congressman didn't accept the answer. I'll ask the Parliament if it'll accept the Secretary of State's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes in favour, 36 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Wind, a representative of the LMP, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister's Office: "Putin is coming, nuclear is going?" It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2015-02-16-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Tomorrow Vladimir Putin arrives in the country, and the whole of Hungary wonders what kind of gift he wishes to give to the special guest of the Orbán government. The secretly managed Paks expansion, on which one thing seems certain that the Russians will continue to do it, is guaranteed to be on this holiday table, despite the fact that the investment is now becoming more and more obvious contrary to Hungary's national interests, and it seems less and less feasible. You, Minister, have said to the country-to-world that the only reason why we have to give Rosatom the HUF 4000 billion deal without tender is because the Russians are the only ones who know about the Paks nuclear power plant technology. According to press reports, this has already been denied, because at present it seems that you want to involve the German Siemens in the enlargement. I would like to tell you two things about the German Siemens. One is that during the Paks malfunction, the defective component was manufactured by them, and the other is that after Fukushima, after the nuclear disaster, they stopped their nuclear research and development activities as well as concrete production. Dear Minister, Please deny or confirm whether Siemens will participate in the expansion project, and if so, what exactly will be your task. I would also like to know exactly how the question of involving foreign managers stands with regard to Paks enlargement. Apparently, and here comes my second question, the government is counting on the possibility of failing the Paks investment, by the way. It was you, Minister, who recently said in an interview that there was an opportunity to back out, but the cost of which must be borne. Now, earlier, I thought they said that if we backed out of it, we wouldn't have any expenses. Dear Minister, This is my second question: have we paid anything for the Paks expansion? And do we understand that this whole series of taxes on renewable energies, solar panels, heat pumps, wind power stations, is actually just a market clean-up for nuclear power? [[15.10]] My third question, Minister: I can see that you are now beginning to be completely confused with your previous slides, but when will you finally realize that this project has actually failed, and Hungary does not need this? Or are they gonna hang the dead horse and see if it's at least for the oligarch exchange that's going on? And in this connection, Minister, the 2250 bill practically removes all procurement relating to Paks II from the scope of public procurement. This is a suitable bill for you to optimize a new oligarch base, the Paks II. And the MET will be able to replace Lajos Simicska together, if I understand correctly, Minister. Is that what this is about? Instead of Simicska, who will own Paks II, Minister? Please answer me.
u2015-02-16-70	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-02-16-71	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, If you'll allow me, let me answer your last, but most important question, who will own the nuclear power plant. While, in 2008 and 2009, the documents in the then Prime Minister's Office show that the socialists planned to privatise the extended nuclear power plant and to give it to private ownership, the most important point of the capacity maintenance we planned is that the nuclear power plant, Paks I and Paks II. It remains in the long term, forever Hungarian taxpayers and Hungarian state-owned. So I must reassure you, my fellow Member, that, despite all your efforts, the nuclear power plant will be owned by no one but you, by every Hungarian tax-paying citizen. As regards my fellow Member's efforts to keep the public informed that the investment has been impossible, I am happy to inform the Parliament on this, as a partly national, that on Wednesday Parliament will start the debate on the package of laws that will enable the investment and will remove any obstacles to the start of the physical execution of the investment in the next three years, which is already being planned. I would like to take advantage of the possibility of interpellation by my fellow Member, Member, and once again to remind you that Hungary is currently using 9000 megawatts of power plant capacity from which we produce electricity. By 2030, some 4100 megawatts of capacity will expire, it will pass, these power plants will have to be shut down, and there will be some 2000 megawatts of power generation when we have to close the two blocks of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, which are currently being refurbished or renewed, between 2032 and 2036. So from the current 9000 megawatts, which are used for electricity and produced by a power plant, we will lose 6100 megawatts in the foreseeable future with an increase in the electricity consumption of the population last year and a steady increase in electricity consumption in Hungary. Our experts estimate - and there is a professional consensus - that instead of the 6000 megawatts of output power plant, which includes 2000 megawatts of nuclear power plant, but also 4100 megawatts of power plant capacity, a total of 7100 megawatts of power power capacity is needed. And this is only a fraction of consumption, because with nuclear energy we produce only 30 percent of the electricity in Hungary, 70 percent of the electricity is obtained from somewhere else and differently. If we are able to maintain the current capacity of the nuclear power plant, we can say that about 40 percent of the transition in the few years when there are two blocks more than the current one, and in this period we will produce 50 percent of the electricity with this technology, which is otherwise considered to be internationally safe, which, in the Commission's view, is environmentally friendly and socially acceptable. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, for the remaining 50 percent framework, the possibility of using the alternative energy mentioned by you is available, and the EU's funding for this type of investment will now open in the next period. I do not understand your objection to Russian nuclear energy capacity technology and technology, because since the Paks Nuclear Power Plant has been operational, there has been no problem, no objection, the country has lived and functioned safely; ask the Paks who live at the base of the nuclear power plant. At the moment, Rosatom is building 12 nuclear power plants in the world, and there are now Russian power plants in 50 countries. We decided for the Russians because they were the only ones who offered a 30-year financing loan agreement in addition to the implementation. No one, not the French, not the Koreans, not the Americans, with whom the socialists have negotiated for ten years, I add, for ten years, none of them have offered funding or loans for the investment being carried out. I ask my fellow Member to accept my reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-72	Thank you, Minister. I'll ask the congresswoman if she'll accept the Minister's answer.
u2015-02-16-73	Minister, I don't know what to accept - I asked you three questions, you answered exactly zero. You didn't tell us what role Siemens is playing, whether we're paying for Simicska's successor; you didn't answer my questions. Moreover, today's figures clearly show that the majority of the Hungarian population reject this investment, so I do not understand what you are talking about when you say that there would be support behind this investment. You may support it here by two thirds - yet two thirds - but the vast majority of Hungary does not support this investment in this form. In addition, I would like everyone to pay close attention to the 2250 bill that we are starting to discuss on Wednesday, because the Minister has said that everything, the final obstacle, will be removed from the project. I'd like to tell you what's in this bill. Two things: every 15 years is classified, and no procurement will be public. You've reached a new stage in the oligarch war. I'd like to know who Lajos Simicska's successor is. I can't accept the answer.
u2015-02-16-74	Thank you very much. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Minister's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 104 votes to 22 with 13 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Erik Bánki, representative of Fidesz, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy:.The Hungarian economy is at the forefront of Europe. Can growth continue in 2015? It's an address. Congressman Bánki Erik has the floor.
u2015-02-16-75	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We can all be proud that, based on the 2014 data, the performance of the Hungarian economy in Europe is absolutely at the forefront, and Hungary, of the 28 member states of Europe, achieved the highest growth in 2014. After all, industrial production has increased by 7.6 percent, the number of people employed has increased by 160,000, 80,000 fewer of our countrymen have to cope with unemployment and the overall performance of the national economy has increased by 3.5 percent in 2014. Therefore, based on these figures, the Hungarian government managed the problems of the crisis well, and what is more, excellently, after 2010; the path we chose was the most effective and successful route in Europe. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai interrupts and applauds.]] Today we can all be proud of the Hungarian model, and even many countries in Europe are among our followers. In four years, the economy has been significantly strengthened, the public debt has decreased, and even public finances have been stabilised, and inflation has dropped to virtually zero, and we have managed to get out of the excessive deficit procedure, which we have not had a chance under socialist governments since 2004, after Hungary's membership in the EU. As a result of the beneficial processes, Hungary has virtually decreased significantly, unemployment has fallen to pre-crisis levels, real wages are constantly increasing, and after the bank has been cleared we can also significantly reduce the serious problems caused by foreign exchange loans in Hungarian society. As a result of public debt control and stable economic growth, international credit rating agencies are painting a better and better picture of Hungary. Moody has placed our country in a stable category, and Hungary is among the best performing European economies, based on the OECD's recent analysis. Dear Secretary of State, Based on the outstanding performance of the previous year, it is rightly expected that there will be stable growth in Hungary in 2015. This conviction is reinforced by the latest Commission statements, according to which the momentum of the Hungarian economy will continue in 2015. According to the analysis, domestic demand will continue to grow, exports could continue to grow and GDP growth could remain at the forefront of Europe. So I ask the Honourable Secretary of State: how does the Hungarian Government see the processes of 2015 and what does it do to keep Hungary the leading student of Europe? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-76	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. [[15.20]]
u2015-02-16-77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, the numbers cannot be changed, although Jobbik just tried. They acknowledge Hungary's economic and other government performance and financial performance. It is true that this result, the fact that we came first in Europe in 2014 with regard to economic growth, is the result of a complex process, which was affected by several factors. I would like to highlight some; for example, we have managed to increase employment, thus increasing our economic performance, because there are indeed 160-170 thousand more people working than a year ago. But we also managed to make the drawdown of EU funds effective, as investment performance exceeded 21 per cent in 2014, and this is a very big achievement. But perhaps the greatest result is that the level of industrial production was indeed very high compared to recent years. In particular, the performance of the automotive industry must be highlighted here, but agriculture has also added a surplus, as well as tourism and tourism. It is very important that we do not sit back and keep this result satisfied. So sustainable growth must be ensured in Hungary. The government has a lot of work to do. I would like to highlight, for example, the facilitation of the use of EU funds 2014-2020 and the rapid delivery to economic operators in order to ensure support for development, investment and job creation. I would like to point out that in Hungary a new financial and banking system must be established and developed, which is essentially in the interests of the country, which focuses on the interests of the economy. So it is important to solve the issue of bank lending and financing, for which I think the government has taken the right steps to develop a healthy commercial banking system in Hungary, the essence of which is that the banks should finally start lending to the economy, to the municipalities and to the people. It is very important that we retain the tax system we have developed, and the tax system that clearly encourages the performance of the economy focuses on and supports the effort to produce, especially the revenue from the increase in turnover and consumption taxes, not the incomes, we can continue to do so. One element of this is that we can further reduce the bank tax and reduce the rate of the bank tax so that the banks can function in a healthy way. I would also like to call it very important that a sufficient number of qualified workers and professionals are at the disposal of the Hungarian economy, because often the limit of economic growth is that there is no suitable specialist available. Obviously, immediate action must be taken, and in the medium term we have taken steps to transform the support system and the vocational training system. If these measures are compatible, sustainable growth will continue to be ensured in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-02-16-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask the congressman if he will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-02-16-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Fellow Members! It is reassuring to me that the government has a realistic view of the remaining problems and sees that without changing the policy of lending, we cannot maintain this economic growth in Hungary. I didn't talk about a very important, successful program, because I didn't have time to introduce it, and this is the growth credit program. Hungary has launched such a growth credit programme for the first time in the European Union to help finance small and medium-sized enterprises. I have to say that Europe has also followed us in this, because, on a proposal from the European Commission, we are now living the first seven-year cycle between 2014 and 2020, when there will be such a growth credit programme at EU level. The only problems are the scale, because while the European Commission can launch one of these with EUR 4 billion, this programme operates in Hungary with EUR 7 billion. So I see that there is more to learn from Hungary later. Let me finish with a sports metaphor. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Champions always see the goal, not the obstacles. This is what has described the Hungarian government so far, and I hope this will continue to do so later. Thank you very much. The answer is accepted. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai: Bravo, bravo!]]
u2015-02-16-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, has submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister. When will the roommate become a cellmate, or how long will the country be stolen instead of solving the feeding of children? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, the Interpellation will be answered by Mr János Lázár, Head of Prime Minister's Office with responsibility and competence. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor.
u2015-02-16-81	Dear Minister, As the government and friends fight, billions disappear. Billions disappear into the budget, while there are those who offshore, some who buy ports, and some who buy luxury apartments. A former ally said he knew a lot about Orbán. What could Lajos Simicska say about the Prime Minister, and what could the Prime Minister say about Lajos Simicska? Maybe the former roommate could be a cellmate once? But let's see what happens on the other side of the stage. János Lázár announces that from autumn onwards they will expand the range of free meals in kindergartens - and then from autumn; either from January or who knows when. How much this could cost when almost half of preschoolers are already eating at a discount, because there are more and more poor people due to government social policy. Do we have to believe that where they build stadiums in every fidesz settlement, there's no money for children to eat properly? But let's see what's going on here. From autumn, it is introduced that it is mandatory to go to kindergarten from the age of three. They're pretending it wasn't mandatory at all. They wanted to introduce this new rule last year, but eventually they postponed it. Why? There's not enough room, and it doesn't seem to be. Then they figured out that the notary would decide who was required to go to kindergarten and who wasn't from the age of three. That's gonna save you a little bit. However, those who are not exempted from the obligation may even take away the family allowance, as if this country were full of preschoolers. Even if he's sick, he'll only need a certificate like he did at school. And where there aren't enough doctors, the unauthorized people will gather and the family allowance will jump. The government is spending less and less on family allowances, 40 billion less this year than five years ago. In the meantime, the kindergarten allowance will be removed from 36,000 children and their families. Do you know how much you're saving up with this? 600 million forints! There is no money for this next year, but there is 7 billion HUF for a national stadium development program. They say the government spends more on feeding children, while they took HUF 22.6 billion from the budget last year. They are also proud to spend 340 million HUF more on the summer meal this year, but they did not notice that there was a holiday in winter. Meanwhile, the public media has 80 billion forints. Now, this is the government whose leader Lajos Simicska said what he said! What you said about the system, Lajos Simicska, is not irrelevant. My alliance with Orbán was about breaking down dictatorship and the post-communist system. Turns out it's not an easy thing to do. It's a job to do. But it wasn't fucking part of this fraternity. [[Noise in the pro-government benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Come on, Ildikó! Dr. Robert Répássy: That's how a lady talks! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Simicska told me!]] We're going to build another dictatorship instead. 'Simiska,' said Simicska. How long do you think Hungarian people are stupid? ! How long do you want them to believe that you're in health care? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] There's no money for education, no money for social services, but is it for stadiums and corruption? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-02-16-82	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-02-16-83	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I have also tried to understand from the oral presentation what the question is about after the written interpellation. But if your question concerned what your last few sentences were about whether there was a sufficient amount of money for education, health and social care in the country, compared to the country's current capacity to carry out the burden, and compared to the tax-paying capacity of taxpayers, the majority in Parliament did everything they could to ensure that funds were available when the budget was adopted. All resources are far more than those of the socialists. But I felt that your question wasn't basically about that, but was trying to include a lot of things in an interpellation. It would have been better to put on more interpellations, and then it would have been easier to answer. [[15.30]] I'd like to begin by saying that you've used some rather strange terms about the government and the Prime Minister, who can do a great job of protecting you, it's none of my business or my responsibility. I would like to tell you one thing, which I think is a parliamentary standard for all of us, that if you refuse, are unable, and do not want to give the honour of the elected Prime Minister of Hungary - which you could also give to Viktor Orbán, who has been a member of Parliament for 25 years, and has been elected Prime Minister of Hungary three times - then do... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] I would also ask my fellow Member of Vada to respect this result. Then I ask that if you do not give the person the respect - which is your problem - at least to those voters who voted for the Fidesz Members and Viktor Orbán. [[Interview from the lines of the MSZP: László Fat...]] We always give respect to the voters who voted for you and you. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] So I'm asking you in style and tone to give me the respect of the electorate, and it doesn't hurt to give the person respect. By reading your interpellation, I am a little surprised - but the parliamentary record will have a nice detail on this moment of interpellation - when you try to revolve the government or the Prime Minister in the words of Lajos Simicska. I don't know if it's a bigger shame on you or a bigger shame on Lajos Simicska. In view of the events of the past few years, the political holding of the Hungarian Socialist Party says a lot that, over the past four years, I have been sitting here in Parliament, when we sacrificed days to who Lajos Simicska was, how much money he made; then they attacked Lajos Simicska, and now they are trying to revolve with Lajos Simicska and the current majority of government. This also says a lot about the political backbone, political posture and, I think, political insight. By the way, if you want to know about Lajos Simicska, please contact Laszlo Puch. I think he knows the most about Lajos Simicska, so I suggest you contact László Puch, the pillar of MSZP, and consult him on who is who in the world of oligarchs. As far as poverty is concerned, I have never had an argument with the Prime Minister, the Government or I, recognising your personal aspirations to eradicate poverty, that in Hungary the disadvantages of children, discrimination, unequal distribution of opportunities or difficulties in catching up are indeed serious problems. We are introducing a typical left-wing program from 2015 that all children from the age of three are required to have a kindergarten. If I open the programme of the European Left, integration and catching up programmes like this will form the basis for it. The most important element of catching up is to start caring as soon as possible for children whose parents do not have sufficient resources. As a left-wing politician, if she is consistent and not only heated by hatred of the government or hatred of the Prime Minister, she should support this in the interests of the children. I'm asking you to support him, as well as that every child who starts preschool at the age of three gets a free lunch and a regular meal all day. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-84	Thank you, Minister. I'll ask Congresswoman if she'll accept the Minister's answer.
u2015-02-16-85	Thank you, I do not accept the answer, Minister, and I challenge you, as you have used the term "hate," that is far from me, and I ask myself to say such things about me. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intruders from the ranks of Fidesz: Ouch!]] And the other is that we also quote people we disagree with. [[Eat your sweet soul!]] And I was never and never gonna be friends with Lajos Simicska, but the Prime Minister said he was friends with Lajos Simicska. I think they can say a lot of things in poverty, but the figures say that they will take more than HUF 40 billion from the social sphere this year compared to last year. I think András Tállai told me here several times that the numbers are talkative. We also said in the budget debate that yes, the numbers are talkative. You know, Minister, the Hungarian people see this, they see what is going on in the country, and believe me, there will be a time when neither Sándor Pintér nor Péter Polt will be able to protect you. This time will come much sooner than you think. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Are you threatening me? Are you threatening me? Applause in the ranks of the MSZP. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I do not accept the answer.]]
u2015-02-16-86	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, you won't accept the answer. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély:]] Thank you. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the Minister's answer. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial response by 101 votes to 23, with 15 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Ádám Mirkóczki, representative of Jobbik, submitted an interpellation to the Prime Minister:. What are they doing against a series of public thefts called integration? It's an address. Minister Zoltán Balog has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári as responsible and competent for the interpellation on behalf of Prime Minister. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-02-16-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, In fact, there's nothing new under the sun, the situation in Gypsy politics has been the same for 25 years. You could say that fraud, theft, corruption is accompanied by almost all the tax forints in this area. The EU funds used by Lungo Drom and the National Roma Municipality have received new reports of brutal pricing and brutal spending. We believe that it is the responsibility and responsibility of the Fidesz Government to find out where and how these tender money goes and how we end it. On the other hand, we find that neither the government nor any representative of the Fidesz majority are speaking on this subject. We say openly that the National Roma Municipality, led by Flórian Farkas, spent 620 million forints of EU funding received for the programme "The Bridge to the World of Work," heavily overpriced, and in fact did not create any jobs or even transfer any part of them to those in need. And the need to use the amount won is no more appropriate than the following items. According to press information and the data we have seen so far, computers were purchased at a price of HUF 3 million/piece, a total of 21 million were spent on 7 computers. They rented cars for nearly 29 million forints for six months. They bought office furniture for $31 million, renovated an office for $26 million. For HUF 31 million, a study on the process of selection of recruitment and the development of recruitment procedures had to be written. 19 million was spent on a study of what software to get for the computer. According to some information, an additional 30 million was given to a media agency to buy media, another agency for 31 million was entrusted with spokesperson tasks, 30-30 million were spent on project managers and project accounting, and 13 million were assigned to printing services. All this stuff that's been published in the press. I ask you, if that is the case, do you believe that this is a realistic value for money? Based on these figures, the National Roma Municipality has spent 300 million HUF on things from the programme budget that are not at all used to create jobs for the fallen layers. What, then, can we expect from people who believe that outside the world of education, work and law, they thank you and enjoy themselves? What can we expect if the elite of his own society steals, cheats, lies? Answer honestly what they are doing, what the government is doing against a series of common-law thefts called integration. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-16-88	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-02-16-89	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is probably not a coincidence that Jobbik's faction was targeting the National Roma Municipality for himself, and from his words it was as if you didn't think it was important for us to provide important resources for catching up. However, I believe that this project, this proposal, which has started here and has already established a national employment cooperative, is trying to promote the economic integration and social integration of the Roma self-government, the people they represent, in order to raise the level of employment of people in disadvantaged areas, in order to ensure their presence in the labour market, I think it is important to devote such resources to this. The National Roma Municipality clearly provides the payment of these resources in an economic self-determination in accordance with the grant agreement. I would be curious if we were to look at the end-of-the-year account of the Jobbik fraction, as the case may be, how much of similar items could we encounter on similar scales. As far as your attacks are concerned, honourable Member, they tell us that you don't even know the invitation to tender, let alone the facts, let alone the fulfilment, but not even the calls for proposals relating to this proposal. [[15.40]] It is extremely saddening, but it is not surprising from Jobbik that, prior to your interpellation, you have clearly failed to provide the expected and prudent information on the subject. [[György Szilágyi laughs.]] This was not his goal, his goal was to incite hatred, his aim is to create tension, and it is extremely irresponsible to stand in this way for centuries of social problems, and to flog completely social emotions against the entire Roma minority here in Parliament. Because of what you said as a fact [[Ádám Mirkóczki: I said press information.]] Congressman, they don't match the reality at all. From this project, as you know, or you should know, it is still nearly six months away, its indicators have been fairly met, with 1,282 participants in training so far, which is 28 percent higher than the planned one. As far as the individual items are concerned, there were quite a lot of distortions in the text you read. For example, the computer purchases mentioned by you covered seven pieces, purchased computers at a unit price of approximately HUF 150,000, which you consider to be an unscrupulous overpriced one to buy a computer for HUF 150,000. You know that the computer under your control, which you work on every day, costs at least five times that, yet this 150,000 HUF computer from the Roma Municipality. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Why did it cost so much?]] Calls for it, which is medium-sized, but of high quality, in the market context. If you look at car rentals, here the daily rental fee for a car is HUF 2060, the average car rental rates available on the market range between HUF 4990 and HUF 13 190. This meant HUF 2060, which was not paid at the expense of the car rental invoice subsidy, but you can see that this is also the amount below the average rent. With an amount of approximately HUF 30 million for the purchase of office furniture, this meant the purchase of 497 pieces of furniture according to the information available to us, so please watch these numbers in this projection, so a complete office equipment is much more rational. If you look at the renovations, the renovation of the 500 square meters central office included 24 571 579 HUF, which includes demolition expenses, masonry work, carpentry work, covering work, painting work, mechanical and electrical works. As far as the following item is concerned, recruitment selection expenditure is concerned, here the ORÖ agreement was concluded with a successful company in a public procurement procedure, which includes the establishment of a national employment cooperative for 6,000 persons. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] preparations for the organizational construction of...
u2015-02-16-90	Thank you.
u2015-02-16-91	... recruitment and many other tasks. And I could still classify these items...
u2015-02-16-92	Secretary of State, thank you.
u2015-02-16-93	I hope there's still a chance. These are proportional items, as we find them to be. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-94	Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] I'm asking you if you'll accept the Secretary of State's answer, Congressman.
u2015-02-16-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, you just can't accept that answer. I would like to stress that Jobbik considers catching up important, but stealing is a sin. The fact that you said that the data didn't match the reality, and I made the facts, I said press information and information shared by the members of the ORÖ that appeared everywhere. You, however, did not deny them, but began to reveal them to us in a completely different way. Mr. Secretary, for once in your life, please be honest about Gypsy issues. They only say once, yes, we need gypsy every four years when we have to vote and buy them for pennies, and otherwise we don't care about catching up on the gypsy. They also say that to do so, that every four years, crowds vote for pennies, they forgive our own political elite for stealing, cheating, lying. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-16-96	Congressman did not accept the answer, I ask the Parliament whether it accepts the State Secretary's reply. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 100 votes to 21 with three abstentions. Dear Parliament, Rózsa Hoffmann, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources. Congresswoman Rózsa Hoffmann has the floor.
u2015-02-16-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure the Secretary of State will answer. In recent years, we have seen an increasing trend in R &amp; D expenditure. In 2013 we have already spent more than HUF 420 billion on R &amp; D, which corresponds to 1.44 percent of Hungarian GDP. This ratio is also the highest value of the last two decades, and it shows that the government's reforms in R &amp; D funding are slowly reaching. The government's repeatedly mentioned objective is to increase our R &amp; D expenditure to 1.8 percent of GDP by the end of the decade. This is a welcome intention, because this is on the one hand approaching the 2.3 percent EU average, and on the other hand, the increasing share of expenditure contributes to the development of an innovative environment in which research and development and innovative ideas as well as companies and public sector organisations are able to develop and grow, in line with Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. It's a century of expectations. The turnaround in R &amp; D expenditure was mainly driven by the increasing research activity of the competition sector. Building on our excellent knowledge base, more and more global companies are installing their innovation activities in Hungary as well as production, and in 2013 the Hungarian suppliers and medium-sized enterprises can employ more and more researchers as a result of the research contribution reduction introduced by the government. At the same time, while R &amp; D expenditure has increased in enterprise research centres in recent years, there is more stagnation or even a decrease in the higher education sector. Dear Secretary of State, According to the government's decision, 60 percent of the funds available in the EU budget period 2014-2020 can be used directly for economic development and 10 percent for research and development purposes. In view of the above, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State how the higher education strategy negotiated by the Government contributes to promoting knowledge-based and science-based economic growth. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-02-16-99	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, As she pointed out, the highest research capacity in the Hungarian R &amp; D and innovation system is reflected in higher education alone, and the government therefore pays particular attention to the fact that more targeted support will continue to serve the development and expansion of higher education research in the coming period. First of all, it is important to note that the State puts the funding of the discovery research activities of universities at the centre of R &amp; D spending, since it is primarily worth it to the State, and it is worth investing in these long-term investments. Therefore, the concept of higher education is also expected to support the area with a 10 per cent surplus from the next year compared to the current state funding. EU co-financed higher education research programmes will be launched in 2015 and the Operational Programme for Human Resources Development will support the strengthening of higher education research capacities by HUF 41 billion in seven years. In addition, within the framework of the GINOP, economic development and innovation operational programme, mentioned by the Member, there will be an additional HUF 160 million available to support centres of excellence in research institutes on the one hand, as well as infrastructure development in research institutes, and to support participation in international research infrastructures and the development of international R &amp; D &amp; I relations. Until the launch of the EFOP and GINOP competitions in 2015, the EMMI has written and issued proposals from the remaining TÁMOP funds, worth more than HUF 7 billion. This is added to 41 and 160 as an additional 7 billion. [[15.50]] During the 2014-2020 programming period, the European Union's R &amp; D &amp; I programme is the Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, with a total financial envelope of nearly EUR 80 billion. We aim to make the greatest possible use of the Framework Programme's funding in the next seven years. Experience from the research framework programme of the previous period has shown that the successful participation of our institutions and researchers in EU research projects is mainly influenced by active participation in international research networks. In the higher education strategy, we have placed great emphasis on facilitating the involvement of international research projects and networks. We want to finance participation in the European Union's R &amp; D programmes from proposals, TÁMOP and EFOP to support the necessary institutional development. In order to ensure the effective functioning of the entire R &amp; D &amp; I system of higher education, the State Secretary for Higher Education has established a separate working committee in which representatives of higher education institutions are also appointed. Its task is to contribute to the more efficient use of the development resources for the programming period 14-20 by consulting strategic issues of R &amp; D and innovation across higher education as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I agree with his suggestion that the exploitation of the research and development and innovation potential available in higher education institutions is a key issue for the economic development of the country. At the same time, it should be pointed out that our Hungarian higher education research sector already has excellent opportunities, which is reflected both in the excellent performance of the research community and in the wide territorial coverage of our institutional network, since local training and research relations can be considered a good talent even for institutions with a narrower profile. Therefore, in the future, Hungarian higher education in the international fields of education and research, I am sure that with this very large source, with more than HUF 200 billion, will be in place. Please accept my reply. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-02-16-101	Dear Secretary of State, It is well known that the performance and international perception of Hungarian higher education is improving, but there is no good situation on which there is no further improvement, and the scientific performance of higher education is also increasing if they are based on serious research. Therefore, I was pleased to hear his reply that the government felt the same way, and I heard a 10 percent increase and other amounts in his reply, which all proves that the government takes it seriously that the scientific research base of Hungarian higher education must also be strengthened. I was happy to hear your answer, so be it. I accept your reply with thanks. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-102	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We'll move on to immediate questions. Bertalan Tóth, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for National Development an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister appointed Mr András Aradszki Secretary of State to reply. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: I accept.]] I see Congressman accepts. You have the floor, Congressman Bertalan Tóth.
u2015-02-16-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, there have been a lot of controversial statements on the energy supply in Hungary, and especially on the gas transport issue. The first point is that, in the course of tomorrow's negotiations on the long-term gas supply contract, Viktor Orbán stated that he had nothing to do with the gas business and the gas offshore companies he talked about, and after the visit of Chancellor Merkel, he also said that the prime ministers did not discuss specific business matters. My question is, what do you want to discuss tomorrow? [[Noise, move. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] When any gas supply contract is agreed here between two companies. The other issue you are concerned about, Prime Minister, is the amount of gas that you may wish to discuss that you have accumulated during the so-called long-term gas supply agreement. My question is whether this was not known at the E.ON purchase, because if it was known, it was settled, if it was not settled, by what time the state paid nearly HUF 300 billion to E.ON. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] When that risk was there. If it is settled, then why does Prime Minister wish to discuss it tomorrow, and why should it be on the agenda? I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State to answer that question. The last issue I would like to ask you about is: if you already refer to global gas prices and to the energy prices that are important for Hungarian consumers, why do you not support our proposal if, according to both the global market and today's news, the prices of energy sources are already falling on the Russian gas market, then why can this not apply to the gas account of Hungarian gas, electricity and district heating users? I look forward to your reply. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. I didn't mean to interrupt, but wait a minute. Those of you who want to leave the room, please leave the meeting room. [[It's ringing.]] Thank you very much. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2015-02-16-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The government has used all means to reduce one of Europe's highest gas prices in recent years. We are now talking about the fact that in Hungary households pay the second lowest gas price for their consumption, but only in Romania the price of gas is lower. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Natural. Not in general.]] But as I look at Romania's dependence on the IMF, we can probably beat them, because the IMF, as opposed to Hungary, is in a position to demand, and now it demands that Romania raises the price of residential gas. However, I must underline that since 2010, the price of natural gas has been determined by the development of reasonable costs. Among the justified costs, in the case of final consumer prices paid by retail customers, only 10 per cent is the part that can be affected by the change in the prices of petroleum products, the rest is to cover the maintenance of infrastructure, domestic production at cost prices and the development of stock exchange prices that affect the price of gas. In this respect, as I said, Hungary has moved forward, unlike you, who have increased the prices of electricity and gas between 2002 and 2010, even when it has shown a significant drop in world market prices. [[Zoltán Grimlock: That's not true!]] I believe that the evolution of oil prices on the world market, such as electricity end-consumer prices, does not have a direct impact, since the free trade conditions are already being determined according to the evolution of stock exchange prices. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-106	Thank you very much. Congressman, you have a chance to rejoinder in a minute. You have the floor.
u2015-02-16-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. You didn't answer my question. I asked why you would be negotiating tomorrow - if you are negotiating at all, because we do not know for sure now - Viktor Orbán is talking about a long-term gas supply contract with Putin when this contract is concluded between two companies. And you didn't answer my question as to why Prime Minister is concerned about the quantity of gas he didn't take over, even though you said during the purchase of E.ON that this issue was resolved and that it was guaranteed to draw this quantity until 2019-20. And that's what they referred to when we asked why they paid nearly HUF 300 billion for E.ON when that risk was there. You said that there was no risk - then why is this back on the agenda? And it would only have been a third answer, but it did not answer why it did not support our proposal. Today's news is not about oil prices, but about Russian gas prices in Europe falling by 35 percent this year. Please answer my questions. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-108	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder to the Secretary of State.
u2015-02-16-109	Honourable Congressman, The long-term gas supply contract in force until the end of 2015 does not pose a risk, nor does it pose a risk that Hungary may be able to draw the quantity not received later. [[16.00]] In this regard, I have to say that there has been an extension of this contract with a binding attitude. We have no other intention of getting even cheaper gas from Russia in a cleaner and more consistent legal situation, because everyone in Europe recognises it and knows that in Central and Eastern Europe, without Russian gas, winter cannot be expected safely. But regardless of the price of the gas, I note that in the case of natural gas it was about HUF 55 thousand, and in the case of electricity, HUF 30 thousand, the price of electricity and gas we introduced, and the reduction of gas prices for the population, as opposed to your regular increase. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What is the answer to the question?]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-16-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "How will prosperity be here? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr Mihály Varga as Minister of National Economy to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he asks the Prime Minister for the answer personally.
u2015-02-16-111	Mr President, the Minister's person is highly appreciated, but I would like to wait for Prime Minister because of the importance of the question. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-112	Thank you very much. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs an immediate question: - Third, what do you think of the luxury pool tax, which you demanded in opposition before Gyurcsány's villa? It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr László Szabó State Secretary to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person who is responding, or whether he is personally expecting an answer from the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
u2015-02-16-113	I don't accept it.
u2015-02-16-114	Thank you very much. Minister will have to answer at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title of the anti-corruption passwords without action. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to his urgent public task. I ask you whether you will accept the person of the responding person or ask the Prime Minister for the answer personally. [[On the sign of György Szilágyi:]] He says yes, he'll take it. Congressman György Szilágyi has the floor.
u2015-02-16-115	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Political public life, including politicians, is very bad for the Hungarian people, unfortunately, the most frequently linked indicators to politicians are corrupt, liar, unscrupulous. This is thanks to the political culture of the past 25 years - quoted in quotes - when people have faced the fact that a politician can do almost everything without consequences. You can lie, you can steal, you can cheat, because if anything comes out, you'll hide behind your immunity, and if you get involved in a case where your immunity doesn't protect you, then the investigation will be ineffective, or the case will be classified for 30-50-80 years. This was the case with oil-bending, Kaya Ibrahim, and most recently with misrepresentation of assets. In recent years, it has been proven that Jobbik is the only party in Parliament who wants a cleaner public life. We have proposed the abolition of immunity, you voted against it, so the current situation is that the representatives of Jobbik will voluntarily waive their immunity in any case, and the representatives of the other parties will not do so. We have clearly suggested that a family member's declaration of property in the household be made public with Members, and you voted against it. Thus, the current situation is that Jobbik's representatives voluntarily made public the property declarations of their family members living with them, and none of the other parties did so. We don't have anything to hide, it looks like the other parties have representatives. I know you've said in words many times how important it is to fight corruption and clean public life - but where are the actions? As the examples show, alone at Jobbik. We do not want to fight corruption with words, but with actions, and not only talk about it, but we are doing it to create a cleaner political public life in Hungary. [[Dr. István Tiba will take his place in the notary seat.]] Dear Minister, I ask: why didn't the pro-government representatives join the Jobbik representatives' initiative, and why didn't they also publish their family members' declarations of property? I would ask the Prime Minister, but you may be able to answer: why didn't Prime Minister set a good example? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Why didn't he disclose the property statements of family members living with him in the household? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-16-116	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-02-16-117	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Not underestimating the work that my fellow Member György Szilágyi is doing on this subject, and respecting Jobbik's political conviction regarding the declaration of assets and the subject of political corruption, let me note that between 2010-14 I believe that the Hungarian Parliament has taken steps to reduce political corruption to a significant extent, partly with the participation of the Group of Jobbik. I remind you that the most important thing, after all, is that as few people live in politics as possible. It is a consequence of democracy that there are people living in official politics - all of us - but it doesn't matter how many. In my view, the move is to reduce the number of Members of Parliament, to reduce the number of representatives of local governments, to reduce the number of county representatives, to make a significant contribution to this. I would like to draw your attention, Mr President, to the fact that, after 2010, we are talking little about this, although it may also be a crucial issue in the debate over the last few weeks, the background of party financing, faction financing and foundation funding has been completely changed. Today, contrary to the period between 90-2010, the reality is that what the state provides today for a party, a faction and a party foundation, from the fact that if this money is not stolen in that party, it can function particularly well between two election times; it does not need any corruption, no political, material type of support, nor does any political party need any sponsor, because the state guarantees the operation in its entirety. The third question is the issue of declarations of assets. Viktor Orbán was one of the politicians on the right who made his family's property statements public, I remind him of this; I was the other one who made it public in 2006. We, I think, can safely say that a sensible dialogue, which also takes account of international examples, reviews the situation in the EU and takes place between the factions, does not prevent us, whether the Prime Minister or myself, from closing down as Fidesz Members. Let the factions meet and discuss this. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-16-118	Thank you, Minister. You have the chance to rejoin the congressman.
u2015-02-16-119	Thank you very much for the floor. I have to add that it is not just Fidesz-KDNP, since neither the LMP, who constantly speaks of transparency, nor the MSZP, nor DK, nor anyone outside Jobbik, has made public the statement of the property of those living in the same household, so all the Members have been sneaking around on this issue. But, Minister, if you made it public in 2006, why didn't you do it now? If you and Prime Minister had made it public, probably those people in your party - because I believe there are people who have nothing to hide between you - would have made them public. You have to understand, instead of words, people are now waiting for action, actions that Members start on themselves, so that they do not hide behind immunity and publish data on their own assets, which will be comparable later on. This would be a service to all of us, because we should finally understand that we should regain the trust that people have turned away from politics over the past few years. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-16-120	Thank you very much. Minister is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-02-16-121	Thank you very much. I agree with you that maintaining, regaining or strengthening public confidence is a fundamental interest for all political parties and for all parliamentary groups. I will continue to say to you, Mr Member, which I, as a Member of Parliament, can fully support in order to have a five-party consultation - with the involvement of the independent, of course - to look at what European case-law is. In countries where transparency is likely to be greater than we are, and there is greater public confidence than Germany or Austria, what is political practice, what is to be made public. I am going to ask you a question that is perhaps exciting about the clarity of the situation: why are we only talking about those living in the same household? So if words are really honest, and we really want to get behind things, if there's something behind them, then why do we make such a difference? This is almost an issue that should be discussed in a serious legal and professional way and to look at what international practice is. As a Member of Parliament, I can fully support the fact that if the political groups initiate negotiations on this, they will review international practice and, after legal consultations, they will come to a common denominator for a new system. It's a 25-year-old system, it's ripe for remodeling, I agree. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-16-122	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask Mr Mihály Varga Minister of National Economy an immediate question: Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor. [[16.10]]
u2015-02-16-123	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, In recent years, all you've done is repeat that you've solved the problems of foreign exchange lenders and cleared the banks. Last week, however, they confessed. They agreed that no more foreign exchange-credit backups on banks' accounts, no more restrictive measures for auctions and evictions, even though next year there will be winter and frost, they will be able to put families and children on the streets in winter, which LMP cannot accept under any circumstances. There are also car-deviation-crediters. The car is no longer a luxury item, it can mean life in small towns, because there is no doctor in the village, or because there is no train or normal bus transport. What about them? You buy banks and bank shares from public money typically above the market price, and you announce that within three years you will certainly have them in private at a price below the market; we are hardly wrong to assume that Fidesz is close to money people. Now it's understandable for the bank tax that you're making a difference. I wonder whose pocket the unpaid bank tax is going to go into. It's at least a hundred billion forints. You have made a shocking promise not to take measures that could have a negative impact on banks' profits. Dear Minister, That's not what we need. It's people's punches in the face. The LMP expects the government to take measures that will really help people trapped in a loan trap. Minister, are you even aware of the price at which you agreed with the banks? How could they promise that the profits of the banks would be inviolable? Do you know how many debtors in difficulty have been left on the side of the road? How dare they stand up to people by giving up on them? Thank you for your attention.
u2015-02-16-124	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga.
u2015-02-16-125	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think you've only read part of the news. Allow me to give you some information on your question. On the one hand, the issue of foreign exchange loans has been resolved, as the government has promised that it will resolve the issue of mortgage-based housing loans. This year, after the introduction of a national asset management, end-payment and exchange rate barrier system, these loans will be released from the domestic financial institution system, contributing significantly to the stability of the banks and to a more stable economy without this risk, and to the removal of the risk that exchange rate fluctuations have posed to people in recent years. As regards the agreement with the EBRD and Erste, let me inform you in this connection that the fundamental issue is not how we agree with the banks. The fundamental question is how there will be more jobs in the country and how there will be higher income for those who work. In this sense, what is needed is to have investments in the country, to create jobs, and jobs to create the opportunity for unemployed or low-income workers who want to work in other jobs to have this type of job. Madam Congresswoman may not have read the news, and in Hungary the bank tax rate is the highest, 14 European countries already use bank taxes. The highest rate of bank tax in Europe will continue to be the highest in Hungary after the reduction. In this respect, therefore, we do not allow the principle that we introduced in 2010 that financial institutions, banks, should also play their part in taxation in order to bear more proportionate public burdens. There is therefore no change from this point of view, but in order to have more jobs in the country, there is a need to increase lending. This agreement creates this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-02-16-126	Thank you very much. The congresswoman is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-02-16-127	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you usually helped the wealthy, and those who really needed it, didn't. They've been left out, who've already lost their credit, and they've missed out on non-residential credentials. In addition, the Hungarian National Bank has won hugely. You were trying to explain the unexplainable. In fact, you've declared it, no more foreign exchange bailouts, there'll be people evicted in the winter. The banks, which were purchased, will be held in private by the Hungarian Commercial Bank, Budapest Bank, Erste part-ownership within three years. But why would they buy it out of public money more expensive than their real value? The introduction of family bankruptcy protection is subject to the Hungarian Banking Association, the profits of the banks are sacred, they do not take measures that are in the way of banks' profits. I'm asking you, Minister, what if this isn't a deal with the banks? Thank you very much, I cannot accept the answer.
u2015-02-16-128	Thank you very much. Minister Mihály Varga is responsible for the rejoinder.
u2015-02-16-129	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Here's what I can tell you. Firstly, there is a fixed exchange rate in Hungary. They come to us from Croatia and Poland to study the Hungarian solution, given that according to all international analysts, this solution was the best way to help foreign exchange lenders. I would also like to tell you that we did not say that the banks would be state-owned. It's a mistake. Your demagogy is taking the question in this direction. We said it would be owned by Hungary, it would be owned by Hungary, and this would be heaven and earth. This means that, if we have the opportunity, we will create, on the basis of the balance sheet, the ownership of the domestic banking system within the Hungarian banking system above 50 per cent, and this has happened. To this end, we were able to undertake the sale of these banks in the coming years, when this is possible, after the repair of these banks. This is in the interests of the economy. I ask you not to jeopardise the jobs and opportunities of people who will be able to access jobs through bank lending and investment with these questions. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-02-16-130	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Pál Völner, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-02-16-131	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, The Fidesz-KDNP Fraction Association has been working since 2010 to find a definitive solution to issues related to foreign exchange lending and to lead these loans out of the market. From 1 February, the forinting of foreign currency loans will take effect, and the exchange rate will be set by law at HUF 256 for Swiss francs at 47 forints, HUF 308 forints for 97 forints for the euro and HUF 2 forints for the Japanese yen at 16 forints. The Fair Banking Act also entered into force at the beginning of the month, imposing strict conditions on unilateral interest rate and fee increases. The decision of the Swiss central bank not to protect the exchange rate of franc against appreciation has made it tangible that exchange rate risk is not just an abstract economic, financial concept, but a real threat. The forinting covers 500 thousand loan contracts, with a total of HUF 3500 billion at the end of 2014. The monthly repayment of an average performing mortgager before the problem settlement was HUF 78,000, which is reduced by 25-30 percent after the settlement, i.e. by more than HUF 20,000. In January, the Swiss franc increased to over 310 HUF. In a few days, more than half of the government's profits could have disappeared. A 20-percent weakening alone would have raised the average Swiss franc-tax payment by 13 thousand forints. We can safely say that because of the forinting, the households concerned have won so much and monthly if the appreciation of the franc remains permanent. The Hungarian government has taken action on time, and we see the fruits of this. However, citizens of other countries have not been so fortunate, and they are now demanding the introduction of regulations such as those in Hungary from their governments. In the light of the above, I would like to ask the Minister how much better domestic foreign exchange lenders are compared to other countries. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-02-16-132	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga.
u2015-02-16-133	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Member, I am very sorry that Congresswoman Schmuck is no longer in the room, and so she cannot hear this answer. I would like to tell you, honourable Member, that the Hungarian Government has made the agreement, together with the central bank and the Banking Association, at the right time, guaranteeing currency protection for foreign exchange creditors from 1 January. This meant that the decision of the Swiss central bank, which pushed all currencies to a significant weakening against the Swiss franc... - in contrast, in Hungary, foreign exchange lenders did not have to worry about the significant exchange rate change increasing their repayments, but also after 15 January at the fixed exchange rate in November. [[16.20]] This meant that we were able to reduce around 700 billion forints for foreign exchange lenders at macroeconomic level, so that the debt did not increase for those who had either foreign exchange or other types of consumer credit in Swiss francs. I think this is a significant achievement, as the international professional press, which is not very friendly with us, or at times, let's say, from the critical Financial Times to Bloomberg, has acknowledged. I would like to quote that more than 60,000 citizens in Croatia, east of us and south, for example, have Swiss-based foreign exchange loans. These credentials are in a desperate situation, given the fact that a 20 percent weakening of the Croatian currency against the Swiss franc has increased their repayments. Therefore, the Croatian government is now trying to fix the exchange rate for the kuna to the Swiss franc. The same situation has emerged in Romania, where numerous protests have taken place in Bucharest and other rural cities, given that the Romanian Government has not taken any meaningful steps to save foreign exchange credentials there. So I think that we have found a good solution, a solution that has been able to protect people against a significant exchange rate change, with a total value of HUF 700 billion. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-02-16-134	Thank you very much. Congressman Völner is entitled to a rejoinder.
u2015-02-16-135	Thank you very much, Minister. In the light of what you have said, it is particularly regrettable to compare what happened now with what happened before 2010, the operation of the government at the time, and the developments in neighbouring states, as the central bank led by János Simor [[András Simor!]] and the previous government would have had the opportunity to do so already for foreign exchange creditors and not to be in a situation as serious as it has been in recent years. Practically the kind of debt and financial constraints that we inherited made it necessary that we could get to this point through a long, multi-step process, that the situation of this currency-credited layer might be finally resolved. Thank you.
u2015-02-16-136	Thank you very much. Minister also has the opportunity to rejoinder for one minute.
u2015-02-16-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A more important question is how this is going to happen in the months of the year. In the months of March and April, there is nothing to be done by foreign exchange legitimists. Banks have an obligation to provide information, this notification must be sent to the banks to customers, because fair settlement requires them to notify the client of how the instalment changes and how interest rates change. Then, from May month onwards, we will switch to forinting, so these loans will be forinted, converted to HUF. And the good news is that interest rates may in many cases be even lower than the interest rates on current foreign exchange loans, as the base rate in Hungary is 2 percent, and these interest rates are at a historic level, so it will be possible that, according to the law on fair banks that entered into force on 1 February, interest rates could be lower than a loan, as they were before with the interest rates on foreign exchange loans. Therefore, the client does not have to do anything, the forinting will be a series of steps that take place in March, April and May. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-02-16-138	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, István Gábor Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Can we have two straight sentences?" It's an address. Prime Minister János Lázár appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office to reply. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-02-16-139	I'll take it.
u2015-02-16-140	He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Belling.
u2015-02-16-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Back in December, when I asked Mr. Prime Minister about the outcome of the Kehi inquiry in Hortobágy, he replied to me: "We will, therefore, have a final report on 31 January, which ended the internal debate, and then I will be happy to inform you of its content. Well, Minister, it seems that Viktor Orbán is unable to say one true sentence on this issue, as this is the investigation that Viktor Orbán has ordered, and he promised not to conclude a contract with anyone until this investigation is completed. Of course, the contracts have been concluded. The Kehi study revealed that nearly a third of the applicants lied specifically when writing the application, and also revealed that there were several applicants who specifically created the company to obtain land subsidies. Minister, oligarchs have taken the land with mafia-like methods and destroyed decent local farmers; farmers who are now waiting for a solution, because in April they should be able to drive animals somewhere. I would like to quote again the words of József Ángyán, who said that the Ministry of Agriculture is in the hands of mafia families. Minister, one of the most important oligarchs in the Fidesz area, Zsolt Nyerges's friend, was responsible for stopping this process, when he raised objections to the investigation in August, and that is why this investigation has not been completed and has therefore not been successful. Mr. Secretary. You can't get people off the land until the test results are done, and you don't know who gets the land in the end. That is why I am asking you whether the investigation has been completed, whether there is a result, and if, as a result, decent farmers will be allowed to return to their lands. Please respond.
u2015-02-16-142	Thank you. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-02-16-143	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider it my duty to inform the Parliament of the Kehi inquiry carried out at the Board of Directors of the Hortobágy National Park, which ordered the Kehi inquiry, if I recall correctly, on the immediate question of one of our fellow Members. This investigation, as I have already informed the Parliament, was completed in its first phase by the Audit Office on 28 August 2014. In such cases, the custom and the written requirement to send the results of the investigation to the person subject to the investigation shall have the right to consult and to comment on it. The Board of Directors of Hortobágy National Park has made comments - I don't know if this is the company you meant when you involved it in some personal context - and Hortobágy National Park has made comments and has maintained them to this day. I would also like to inform the Parliament - not that my personal credibility is doubtful to my fellow Members, but I would still like to inform the Parliament - that I gave my fellow Member Gábor Harangozó and Zoltán Gőgös an insight into the outcome of the Kehi inquiry on 4 December and then did the same to my fellow Member Sallai R. Benedict. I will also provide all my fellow Members with an insight into all the Kehi studies for the future. They could be convinced, in my opinion, that the Kehi investigation had done a fair job. As Prime Minister indicated, the investigation ended on 31 January. I'm going to ask Kehi if the Ministry of Agriculture has made any further comments. If he did not, the findings are valid to this day. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-02-16-144	Thank you very much. The possibility of rejoinder is yours, Congressman.
u2015-02-16-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Prime Minister's credibility in this matter is considerably impaired because 31 January has passed quite a long time ago. You know, Minister, the farmers wrote to the Prime Minister that we understand that the basic condition for the existence of all political parties is to create and maintain a strong social, economic, cultural hinterland, but we cannot accept that if this is built or maintained in violation of the law, the fundamental moral-ethical principles governing our lives, such as integrity, equality and honesty, are ignored. We can't accept that the profiteers who hang around and around you will destroy us. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. These farmers are now waiting for a straight sentence, Minister, that someone should tell them how the Kehi investigation ended, and that 30 percent of the dishonest applicants who have divided the land among themselves with mafia methods will be disoriented from the ground, and will the thousands of farmers holding animals receive these lands, whom this land would rightly deserve.
u2015-02-16-146	Thank you very much. The Minister has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2015-02-16-147	Thank you very much. In any case, I would like to suggest peace of mind to my fellow Member. [[Gábor István Bellozó: How can I be calm?]] You can be calm, my fellow Member, because the agricultural year started in September and lasts until September, as all my fellow Members from agriculture know. I assure you, my fellow Member, that the situation will be resolved, as follows: a contract which Kehi considers to be irregular, is in the government's view invalid and must be restored to the original state. This applies to contracts where there has been a material error affecting the result. If, after these comments, I get the impression that not only is a contract irregular but also invalid, then not only must the original state be restored, but also if it raises reasonable suspicion of a crime, I will make the necessary criminal complaint. I hope both sentences were clear. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] [[16.30]]
u2015-02-16-148	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. Who will ensure a future that can be planned? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-02-16-149	Mr President, Dear House, In recent months, there have been various estimates of how many Hungarians have left Hungary in the western direction, mainly for work. Here between 350 and 600 thousand are commuted tips, market estimates. Last time a value of around 600,000 came to light. And apparently, these leaving migrants are most marked by their departure, temporary, we hope, as a reason for their temporary and much less permanent departure, that the material, the lack of jobs, is the second line behind the hopeless nature of home creation. So the clear fear is that if you look at the time when you look at your average salary according to the KSH, how long it takes you to save enough money for yourself to create and acquire a home, very few can see that you can realize this plan within a decade and a half. Which, by the way, is a perfectly lifelike, simple and logical plan for every person's life. It can be seen that the government has no home creation at the moment, and its Socpol-type ideas may help the better, but those who do not have 18 million for an apartment will not have 14.5, even if the government, through commercial banks, provides a discount of one to two million for similar transactions. But the fact that in the first 9 months of last year there were only 5 thousand apartments, it is very talkative in itself that neither the housing stock is growing, and for Hungarian young people, the government has still not completed a rental-building and home-building program that would allow for a fraction of the market price to move into such apartments, and then it could be transferred to the property of the person after 6-8 years of repayment or salary. After all, without such a programme, the emigration spiral cannot be slowed down in substance, nor can the Hungarian construction industry be given capital injections. So the question arises: why has the government been standing on this front for four and a half years? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-16-150	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga.
u2015-02-16-151	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for asking. Firstly, I would like to stress that last year the labour force's work abroad has decreased significantly, so the trend is turning around. This is also shown by the fact that in 2014 there were 170 thousand more people working than in the previous year, and most of it was not a foreign worker, but a Hungarian worker. As regards home creation and access to housing, honourable Member, first of all, I must stress that this year the government will launch a major programme to help with home creation, our family home creation initiative will start in July. This opens up the possibility for everyone that from HUF 500,000 to HUF 3.2 million we can provide support not only for the purchase of a new apartment, but also for the purchase of a used apartment, regardless of the number of children. This creates the possibility that if someone doesn't really have an apartment, they can even provide this opportunity for you and your family through a used apartment. I would like to emphasise that it is not only through the construction of a new apartment that it is possible to facilitate access to housing, but also through existing frameworks, within existing programmes, by supporting the purchase of used apartments. I would therefore like to draw your attention, Mr President, to the fact that this programme will start in July, the framework for home-building support will be significantly changed, not only in the case of more, but also in the case of two children, or even in the case of one child, it will be possible for citizens to be able to obtain additional support for the purchase of used or new apartments, even for the construction of a new apartment. I would also like to add that, since you are a member of Budapest, so that you do not necessarily start from the real estate prices in Budapest, you can start with a much lower amount of money to buy a used apartment in the countryside. So we are hoping that this will significantly boost the real estate market that is already on its own, giving more people the opportunity to access the apartment. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-16-152	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mr Dániel Z. Karpa to take advantage of the rejoinder. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2015-02-16-153	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to point out to Minister that whether we are talking about Pest or from the countryside, Hungarian young people simply do not have the money to buy a flat. Our housing stock is embarrassingly low, so it would be possible to start with a lease building program with a public background, where Hungarian construction companies could also receive capital injections. After a printed rent, who meets the basic rules of coexistence, and who finds his calculation, he must find that apartment in a state that can be purchased, and in this way, if it appears to anyone within a ten-year horizon that a decent job can be obtained from a home, then perhaps the departure of the country will be considered several times. But it remains clear that while the construction of 43-44 thousand new apartments is optimal each year, this government is at 25 percent of the 2008 level and does not help young people, it does not reach under the arm of those who do deserve it, not this lifeline, but this minimum crutch to help basic living conditions. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-16-154	Thank you very much. Minister Mihály Varga has the floor.
u2015-02-16-155	Honourable Congressman, Nor in Western Europe is it possible for a young beginner to buy a flat without any credit or support from his salary. So please be very friendly with the fact that this is not the case in Eastern Europe and Central Europe. Our tragedy was that, from 2004 onwards, foreign exchange loans have multiplied in the country to the extent that, now, after the crisis and the collapse of foreign currency loans, it keeps everyone away from trying to make their way to home with any kind of lending. But I think that the goal should continue to be to create this opportunity for a young person, to which the state can add its own support, by extending the support opportunities with this family home-building discount. If, under a fair and fair bank law, a bank can contribute to this with a low level of interest rate as a partner, then it is already possible for young people to have access to housing. We are very confident that this will already be seen through the numbers this year. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-16-156	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, János Harghitai, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:, How do international financial institutions see our country's economic performance and future? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-02-16-157	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, During the political cucumber season, in January, the IMF delegation was here, and I can see from the press that the government and the IMF had the same position on the Hungarian economy. This must have been a very interesting situation for you, because you were the finance minister even when we did not accept the path offered by the IMF in 2010. At that time we could have doubts as to whether the particular economic policy on which Hungary is going would bring its results, but from 4-5 years, the figures clearly justify the government, and as a representative, I was pleased to see that the voice of the government and the IMF reflected about the same in this respect. [[Nándor Gúr will be replaced in the notary seat by Dezső Believing.]] It is not possible to have so much debate about the economic perception of the economy, obviously, with this financial organization, because the 3.5 percent economic growth that the Hungarian economy produced last year, and with this, we have become living learners in Europe, I think it is certainly worthy of recognition; or the increase in the number of jobs in the public sector and in the private sector; but the IMF also applauded the government's strict fiscal policy through which we kept the lack of public finances below the desired level for years, so last year at 2.6 percent. I think it is even more important that the IMF not only agreed with the government in describing the situation, but also in the vision of the future, when the IMF notes that the further expansion of employment, which the government has already represented, is also welcome to maintain strict public finances and to do everything possible to ensure that an economic policy continues to take place in Hungary, which will make Hungary a preferred investment destination. In light of this, I judge the agreement with the banks that the government has recently brought to life. How does Minister see the last five years through the IMF's glasses?
u2015-02-16-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have the floor, Minister. [[16.40]]
u2015-02-16-159	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, through those glasses, I cannot see the situation, because it is another pair of glasses, but it is undoubtedly a fact - as you have pointed out - that the IMF, perhaps somewhat correcting its previous position, is increasingly understanding and accepting the measures that we have taken to stabilise the economy. In particular, this is in the light of the fact that, with our recent quarterly growth, the 3.4 percent we are back in the first place in Europe, we are in the highest growth range. This certainly shows that Hungarian economic policy has made the right and good decisions in recent years. What is our economic growth based on? Let me highlight five factors: keeping public investment at a high level, which has helped sustain economic growth in the years of the crisis; making more efficient use and drawing up of EU funds, this is certainly part of the growth; increasing consumption, behind which the reduction of costs and the increase in real income are certainly there; the increase in our exports, as despite the crisis and despite the decline in the euro area, Hungarian exports continue to grow, will exceed EUR 100 billion last year; and last but not least, the slow recovery of lending, just as you have pointed out, to this end, we have concluded an agreement with the EBRD on a new framework for banking operations, in order to increase lending. On this basis, I can tell you that, indeed, the IMF has given us an unusually favourable criticism or criticism, and specifically mentioned that in terms of increasing employment, Hungary has been at the forefront of Europe over the past four years, and we have managed to preserve the jobs that could have been dismantled in spite of the crisis or in the context of the crisis. Overall, we are in a positive position today that, whether I look at the materials of the IMF or the OECD or the European Commission, everyone has started to adjust the expected Hungarian economic growth upwards. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-160	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Congressman Harghitai in return.
u2015-02-16-161	What we can expect is when international credit rating agencies respond positively to the performance of the Hungarian economy, because the markets welcome the Hungarian economy when market participants register government bonds. I'm hoping that the credit rating agencies will recognize that sooner or later. If so, what additional benefit would such qualifications have? Wait, does the government expect this to happen?
u2015-02-16-162	Thank you very much. Minister Varga has the floor.
u2015-02-16-163	Honourable Congressman, Credit rating agencies change classification twice a year, in spring and autumn. In March, according to their preliminary calendar, all three large credit rating agencies will review Hungary's rating. This has already been done with caution in recent months, when Hungary's view has improved from negative to stable. But I have to say to you that it is more important for me to see the market value judgement that the market has expressed in recent years, regardless of the opinion of the credit rating agencies, with confidence in the Hungarian economy, because let's not forget that when it was a foreign exchange bond issue, our sovereign debt was bought by the market with five and six overtones, and the bonds of a country in which they do not trust are not usually bought. From this point of view, I expect that credit rating agencies will slowly follow the judgement of the market, they will review our assessment, and they will give Hungary a much more favourable view on the basis of the economic performance of the past months. This more favourable view can also feed on economic growth data, as well as the fact that forinting and foreign exchange loans are being released. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-164	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. Will the payment of EU funds be suspended? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman Ikotity.
u2015-02-16-165	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, For two weeks, the public has been interested in how the National Roma Municipality manages EU tender funds. On February 9th, thanks to Ákos Hadházy's LMP spokesperson, who also exposed the Fidesz trafikmutite, we received a sobering picture of this. As it turns out from the Public Procurement Notice - not from anywhere in the press - in white and black, there are serious problems with the program "The Bridge to the World of Work." This initiative will certainly solve the most burning problem of Hungarian gypsy, even if not the best. In addition to other resources, it can hold EU funds from the TÁMOP programme, which was transferred and transferred to the ORÖ by the body assigned to the Prime Minister's Office. According to the data, half of the 600 million of the TÁMOP tender framework has been spent by the heads of the National Roma Municipality in such a way that none of our Roma compatriots have ever gotten closer to their job. They spent all the more on humiliating, humiliating luxurious expenses. Every month and every car, almost half a million people went to car rental - not two thousand forints and sixty thousand forints, which was said by Secretary of State Rétvári - ten million people went to office furniture and office renovation, ordered studies for 20-30 million forints. After all this came to light, several representatives of the municipality initiated the setting up of a committee of inquiry, but the indecision of the assembly convened in the case clearly shows that not everyone was interested in finding out the truth in the municipalities managed by Lungo Drom in Fidesz, close to Fidesz. Many claim that the threats of Flórian Farkas, politicalizing in the colors of Fidesz, did not get any closer to launching the internal investigation. My question to the Minister is: will you initiate an inquiry into Kehi and the State Audit Office to investigate abuses? In other words, will the payment of EU funds be suspended for the National Roma Municipality until all details of the case have been thoroughly explored?
u2015-02-16-166	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-02-16-167	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, Although it is a programme that has not yet been completed - if I can recall the events correctly, and I have spoken here with my colleague, Secretary of State of Rétvár - I would like to propose the following solution, given that the Fundamental Law always provides the legislators with an important initiative and control competence with regard to executive power. I propose to you first of all, given the fact that my office provides the work organisation of the Prime Minister's Commissioner, that you contact Flórian Farkas, given that he has also mentioned it in his speech, and I will certainly ask our fellow Member Flórian Farkas to provide you with the information available as the Prime Minister's Commissioner on Roma issues. If in you, even after reviewing the situation with our fellow Member Flórian Farkas, there is doubt, then naturally, as with his last oral question and his interpellation, we are ready ourselves, i.e. the Office, the Prime Minister's Office for the distribution of EU development money, to check the way of money after the end of the programme. I think it is fair and fair that if the programme is completed, the investigation will be ordered only afterwards, and we will not start from preconceptions or news or anonymous reports. I would like you to first gain personal experience with the help of Flórian Farkas, and then to consider the situation. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] That is what I would suggest in this delicate situation, because I think we agree, Mr President, that it is important, with regard to forints spent in minority self-governments, that transparency should be even higher than average, but at the same time we cannot stand on either side of the interest groups that sometimes accuse each other with or without foundation. Therefore, I would suggest caution and caution in this matter; it could then lead to prejudiced remarks. That is why I propose, Congressman, that you make sure that what has happened is exactly what has happened. I will speak to my fellow Member, Flórian Farkas, as Prime Minister Commissioner. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-168	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity in return.
u2015-02-16-169	Thank you very much for the floor. It is definitely data that came out of the Public Procurement Notice. Of course, we're open to hearing it. We have published a communication in this case, and a response to the communication has been received, which has not been able to refute these figures, which we have said, they have only been able to reflect the differences between net and gross value, but this is very low. Of course, we can accept this, so we are looking forward to the request, and we are also moving in this direction. We would very much like this matter to be resolved with certainty that it is transparent. Of course, we have heard of a case in progress that has been checked out with a large police escort, and it could be done here. I don't think we should draw some kind of minority card in this. That's pretty straightforward. And the figures that Mr Rétvári said in an earlier speech, but which he said today, are by no means justified, and we have also submitted a written question to find out where he got this information. Thank you for the floor. [[16.50]]
u2015-02-16-170	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-02-16-171	Thank you very much. I would be calm, my fellow Member, if the communication battle-- and rather than fighting a communication - which is an extremely important part of politics - the Member is indeed personally a conscientious Member of Parliament, whose work I respect, know and try to follow closely, and would you really like to look at the reality of this matter. I know what appeared in the Public Procurement Notice, and I also know what was said today's interpellation, but without real knowledge, I think we should not break a wand on this sensitive issue, let us not be hasty. I would also like to say to you that it has not been easy in recent years to stabilise the situation of the national leadership of the Roma minority self-government. As we know, a number of investigations have followed each other, so I think that all parliamentary parties are interested in the success of this work of representation of interests and, moreover, in an extremely sensitive area. However, there is no compromise in the use of money, so there is a need for pure and transparent, accountable conditions in its entirety. I will speak to Congressman Wolf, and I will ask him to contact you urgently. If that doesn't work, or if you're under the impression, then my office is at your disposal. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-16-172	I thank the Minister for his reply. Dear Parliament, Péter Ágh, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Defence an immediate question:. Congressman Péter Agh has the floor.
u2015-02-16-173	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Thanks to the decision of the Hungarian people and economic growth, Hungary is today strong enough to continue the sectoral wage-raising programmes. In addition to continuing to raise wages for teachers and health workers, wage increases for armed and law enforcement workers will also begin. On 27 October 2014, the Minister announced that the salary will soon increase for the soldiers, as all those who would sacrifice their lives on the altar of the country deserve to receive a greater benefit as a sign of their appreciation. It is good news for defence that the budget adopted already contains resources that could be used for this purpose in 2015. This year's defense budget is 9 billion higher than last year's. An additional HUF 11 billion is intended for the announced salary increase, but it will only be used after 1 July, but this amount is already available to the defence. So from this 11 billion HUF will be the money to secure the six-month increase. At the same time, this year's defence budget is HUF 260.5 billion, which is 20 billion and 8.2 percent higher than last year. On this basis, I would like to ask the Minister first of all what system is planned to raise the salary of soldiers. Thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-16-174	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Csaba Hende. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-02-16-175	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to remind everyone that a substantial, real, substantial salary increase was last made at the Hungarian Defence Office in the early 2000s, which was also ensured by the first Orbán government. And yes, we have good news for you now, because as of 1 July, the third Orbán government will begin to raise our countrymen's salaries again. This year, we will increase the salary of our soldiers by an average of 30 percent and ultimately by an average of 50 percent until 1 January 2019. The only thing about the new system is that it will be simpler and fairer, and that lower-ranking workers can expect a higher increase in proportion. Honourable Congressman, The portfolio has already developed a detailed concept and all stakeholders, i.e. all teams and all interest representatives, have been consulted on the draft. My colleagues are working on the comments received at this moment. After that, we will bring the detailed proposal before the Government and then before the Honourable Parliament to strengthen this extraordinary increase in salary by law. At the end of our work, we will guarantee not only a salary increase, but a predictable and predictable military career of appreciation and appreciation for the armed service of the country to the entire personnel of the defence. This is also planned to include a highly preferential housing loan and a specific, favourable form of public service insurance. Thank you for your question, and I ask for the support of Parliament in advance for our forthcoming bill. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-16-176	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Agh in return.
u2015-02-16-177	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I think it is welcome that the government is working alongside a significant wage increase to lay the foundations for a new military career model. In my opinion, the military career must, on the one hand, implement a performance-based and predictable system of advancement, i.e. a system that is designed to provide the most prepared and performing soldiers with a clear, predictable and attractive path to the Hungarian Defence Office. We see that the government's aim was to create a new career path for our countrymen, in the long term, and in a stable way, in addition to raising salaries. I think that the Parliament's task in this work is to help the defence wallet in order that, indeed, those who have served this country all the time in the country and abroad, can feel the appreciation that the country intends to give them. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-16-178	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister Csaba Hende is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-02-16-179	Thank you very much for the floor. Honourable Congressman, Indeed, we want to introduce and operate a performance-based system of advancement, of course the system has worked so far, but I have to say that only the best are needed, only the best can get ahead of the new career, and we want to create all the necessary conditions for this. Changing, transforming officer training, setting up a new junior academy or to say nothing else, the strict acceptance of physical education requirements is that we have been forced to give up dozens of professional soldiers in recent years because they have failed to comply with the physical assessment and could not prepare for the extra time set... - and they have not been able to bring forward performance indicators that are prescribed for their age group. So we take it very seriously, they take it very seriously, and [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We are now supporting this whole system with a very serious salary increase. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-180	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Before we get to the discussion of the questions, I wish to inform the Honourable Parliament. Dear Parliament, Today, at the meeting of the Parliament, the Group of the LMP on investment in maintaining the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant and amending certain laws in this regard, T/2250. The EESC has initiated the removal of bill No 1 from the agenda. This was decided by the Parliament with a raise of hands. At the initiative of the Fidesz fraction, the president of the Parliament had the notaries check the published results in the TV studio. The resolution house rule is 25. In accordance with Rule 5 of the Act, the President of the Parliament reviewed the outcome he announced and concluded that the motion of the LMP Group was not accepted by the Parliament. On the basis of the corrected outcome, the debate on the bill is part of the adopted agenda. Dear Parliament, On a point of order, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél asked for the floor. Before I give the floor, I would like to signal to the Member that the House Committee has also discussed this issue today; Mr Schiffer was present at the meeting. You have the floor.
u2015-02-16-181	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to initiate the investigation of this matter on a case-by-case basis, because what really happened was that President László Kövér misrepresented the result, and, ergo, the T/2250 was not on the Wednesday agenda. the trial of the law. In addition, on the spot, Mr President asked about the pulpit whether he was counting the votes, on which I also gave him the answer by word and metacommunication: yes, I would like you to count them. Unfortunately, despite the request, Mr President has not taken my answer into account, which is why I would like to clarify this situation, so I respectfully ask that this matter be examined in the appropriate forum. Thank you. [[17.00]]
u2015-02-16-182	Thank you, Congresswoman. I must inform the Member that, at the request of the President, this summary was published on the basis of the relevant house rules. However, if the congresswoman has any doubts, please turn to the Judicial Committee, this problem will, of course, also be dealt with in substance by the House. Thank you for your understanding, and I think that we can move on with the agenda. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy a question with the title "The Disappearance of Hundreds of Thousands of Retail Accounts." Mr László Csakács has the floor.
u2015-02-16-183	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Dear House, After this interpellation, to which Mihály Varga replied to Erzsébet Schmuck, I can change the title of this question, because in fact it would be called you taxing people, not banks. Mihály Varga admitted that Hungary is one of the highest bankers in the European Union. Here, I can tell you the facts about the payment system, and not only I, but also the report of the Hungarian National Bank, there is one such publication that describes how much your bank tax costs to Hungarian people who have an account in financial institutions and banks. It also states that these financial institutions, banks, will pass this on to customers directly in full and indirectly in the case of card purchases. You intend to collect 260 billion forints from the Hungarian people before last year, about the same amount last year and 262,2 billion forints this year. Now you know that you have increased the opening of bank accounts in Hungary, and most of all, each person has been charged an extra HUF 25,000 in the form of a reduction in the amount of money. This, of course, also reduces transparency, as there is nearly HUF 3 billion in cash in Hungarian people today. Obviously, if it's in your interest not to be transparent and cash in the same way as 50 to 100 years ago in the bottom of the subloo or in the pillow, then you're on the right path, but I think it's XXI. The company would expect something else from you. This type of tax, and the collection of this, is an eloquent example of the thoughtless, reckless codification without any impact assessment that characterizes this government. After all, they even tried to respond when they announced free admissions to individual banks in limited quantities. If it's causing so much trouble, I'd like to ask you if you're planning on abolishing this tax. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-02-16-184	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-02-16-185	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I note in parentheses that you may have confused the bank tax and the transaction fee, but, after all, this is not such a big problem, but I am referring to the seriousness of the issue. We should have looked into what the bank tax is and what the transaction fee is, if you're asking such questions. Your question suggests that hundreds of thousands of residential accounts have disappeared. Indeed, residential bank accounts have been closed, yet there are still 9.4 million in Hungary, and this meant only a few percent reduction. It is true that the transaction fee introduced and the cash withdrawal cost could have been the cause of this and therefore also had the effect of a market-cleaning effect, which is why these bank accounts ceased to exist. And by the way, to your written question, because you didn't ask me orally. [[Dr. László Kács: But I also said it orally!]] It has to be said that transaction fees and actions have already increased by 25 percent and have been used by more people, with a 4.3 percent increase. And the fact that the cash is high, I'm not sure that's true. [[Dr. László Kács: From the MNB report!]] He left out one thing: the amount of Hungarian citizens invested in sovereign debt. This is now more than HUF 2200 billion. Therefore, a significant part of this amount is probably in sovereign debt. The government does not intend to review and eliminate transaction fees in this respect, because the problem you raised but not told us is not at all the reason. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-02-16-186	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for National Development:. Once again, they promised irresponsiblely about important road development. Congressman Tibor Bana has the floor.
u2015-02-16-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said this last summer: "It's a beautiful and famous city, if you can't get around here. During my recent visit, I really understood and accepted the argument made by MEP Zsolt V. Németh and Mayor István Bebes that it is as important to build the four-track road towards the border as it is to Budapest. I understand your arguments, and I see that in the next year or two we really need to start the work that will make it possible for the road to avoid the city to be built, and then to reach the Austrian-Hungarian border on a four-track road, while, by the way, construction of the section to Budapest is also taking place. We are working to ensure that this part of the country is involved in the European blood circulation in two directions, both in the Hungarian direction and in the Austrian direction. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. At the beginning of January, I submitted a written question to Minister Seszták about the development of the Vas section of M8 Road, but I received a very superficial and meaningless reply. In contrast to the Prime Minister's quoted promise of turning the affected section of the M8 road into a four-track road, there is now two single lanes between Körmend and Szentgotthárd, two times instead of two lanes. I find it particularly outrageous that, while there is not a single kilometer of motorways in Vas County, the government wanted to smear the Vas County by making the M86 road between Szombathely and Szeleste pay. This amazing idea finally stopped, although, I might add, I believe that the people in the county would pay the five thousand forints a year for the county sticker if they could drive safe on the right quality expressway. This would require substantial road development. The issue of the development of Highway 8 was also raised recently at the Vas County General Assembly, where serious promises were made by the pro-government representatives. Dear Secretary of State, On the basis of Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's words, I ask what is expected of the development of the M8 road in Vas county, what concrete commitments Mr.Secretary can make. Will they keep their word, or will they promise irresponsiblely again? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-02-16-188	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State László Tasó. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-02-16-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I confirm that it is a very important development for both the government and the Ministry to build a cross-border section of the M8 motorway. This is supported by our national transport and infrastructure development strategy adopted in August, in which - you may have heard it several times - the connection of county seats, county-righted cities to the motorways and the construction of motorways and highways to national borders is a top priority. The preparation of the Körmend-East-border section of the M8 motorway and the planning of the sections east of it are also underway. The feasibility study, the safety impact assessment and the approval plan are already available. I'm reading it so I don't miss it. In addition, the physical section already has an environmental permit. In terms of its technical content and considering traffic data, we are projected to build two two lane motorways at two paces. At the end of last year, there was a meeting with the Austrian party, who predicted that the S7, which is connected to the Hungarian section, would be designed twice by them with one band. They are planning to build it in the area of 18 and 20, by the way. We think and plan to build the missing section twice by two lanes, so the artifacts of the nodes and the branches of the nodes are made. So we're preparing for the two-track freeway. The authorization procedure is already in place, and I dare say to you that by the end of the year, the permits will be ready. By the way, it is clear to us that because it is so important and really necessary investment, Members, mayors and economic operators are in favour and in favour. We see the importance. We definitely need to start building it sooner. I really hope it happens sooner. [[17.10]] The other part of your question is already relevant, since you do not have to pay in Vas county, but I am pleased that you support the introduction of the county sticker system. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-190	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: Why does the government not ensure the real security of the rescue? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties: Far away. He's busy. He agrees with government policy, so he went home.]] Isn't the congressman in? [[For signal:]] Dear Parliament, Mr President, Mr President, you are not in the Chamber, so we will move on to the next question. Dear Parliament, Béla Dankó, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister for National Development when to start building the M44 road? It's an address. Congressman Béla Dankó has the floor.
u2015-02-16-191	Dear Secretary of State, The construction of the M44 road is the cornerstone of the advanced road transport of the county of Békés, which is essential both from an economic and social point of view. The construction of the road is the key to the future of the county. The need for an M44 cannot be a question. This is supported by statistical data, since in Békés county the rate of population loss remains the highest in the country, nearly twice as high as in the country. In addition, in Békés county, the value of investments per capita is 24 percent lower than the average of the region and 54 percent lower than the national average. In addition, the truck traffic on Highway 44 has increased by an amazing 33 percent following the introduction of the e-toll, which makes road transport dangerous and damages buildings along the road. Advanced road transport is an essential condition for the economic development of our economy, which is currently not resolved. For people living here, it is necessary to create certain living conditions, which do not encourage them to leave their birthplaces. However, investments that create new jobs can only be launched by the appropriate transport infrastructure. The M44 two-track drive between Kecskemét and Békéscsaba can be divided into three parts according to preparation: Kecskemét-Tisakürt, Tisakürt-Kondoros and Kondoros-Békéscsaba, of which Tisakürt-Kondoros is the best prepared. The latter has an existing construction and environmental permit, which will expire soon. More than 75% of the land required to carry out the investment is available. Dear Secretary of State, In this regard, I ask you: when can the construction of the two-track section of the M44 motorway begin between Kondoros-Tisakürt, the construction of which could eliminate the economic isolation of the county and reduce the number of accidents. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-192	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State of Tasó. You have the floor.
u2015-02-16-193	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, My dear fellow Member, I am pleased to confirm once again that it is a clear and clear goal, that every county seat and county-righted city must have a fast-track connection, so, of course, this is also the issue of our endeavour. What is very important and I am pleased to point out is that the distance between Tiszakürt-Kondoros and Tiszakürt-Kondoros are among the very large investments divided into three stages, and this is indeed in a situation where I can safely say that in the second half of this year even the procurement procedure can be declared. We would like to give priority to this section because it is possible and because the resources provided by the domestic budget are available. I am glad that what we have not yet been able to say for sure is that the entire phase can be completed sooner than is possible according to our current plans. In the near future, Parliament will be faced with an acceleration package, which is about shortening the current procedures and procedural time, and what is now generally more than six and a half years on average, but in many cases it will include nine years, this section should be shortened. Our plans are to start at the latest after two and a half years for each investment that the government considers to be a priority and to start work after two and a half years at the latest. This will mean a gigantic work in the legislative process, but I very much hope that everyone will start as partners and help accelerate investment. So now, according to the current plans, the investment would be completed around 19-20, but we will make it clear with this package and with this help that we want to finish by the end of 18:00. We are very confident that the whole phase can be completed by 18 o'clock, but the public procurement of the section between Tiszakürt-Kondoros will be announced this year. Thank you very much for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-194	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Now Szabolcs Szabó wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an independent representative:. Habony is entitled to a public official's card? It's an address. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs.
u2015-02-16-195	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, On your initiative, in December 2014, the Parliament amended the Act on Parliament, as a result of which it supplemented it with the provisions on a public official certificate. To our full surprise, a proposal for a new amendment has now been submitted to the same place of law. Some public officials were also named in the original proposal you submitted last autumn, and the Parliament adopted a much more detailed list of them. However, the current legislative proposal seeks to remove this taxative list by extending the list with the not-so-specific category of person defined by other laws. In addition, the original autumn proposal contained some specifications for the minimum data content of the certificate. However, these were not included in the adopted text. The legislation is silent about the purpose of the ID. As a result, my question is as follows: with what data content, for what purpose should a public officer's card be issued? What rights do you derive from the possession of the ID, and what rights can be enforced by presenting it? Given that the Act on Parliament clearly designates that a public official is the person elected by Parliament, the scope of those to whom an ID may be issued can be well defined by that definition. It is therefore incomprehensible to me that the legislative amendment proposal, so my further questions are as follows: why is it necessary to define in detail who is entitled to a public-law officer's card if it is once clear by law? On the other hand, who exactly is covered by the scope of persons who are not defined in any other act, who can belong to this category and which legal bases? Thank you. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-02-16-196	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Répássy Róbert, State Secretary.
u2015-02-16-197	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, You're asking me if Habony's entitled to a public-law officer's license? It doesn't. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-198	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Just now, Congressman István Ikotity was not in the room. In my power as president, I decided to give him the floor, because he was at the front door, on a deep phone call. [[Defiance.]] That is why I thought, because the Secretary of State was also kind enough to respond to my appreciation for his intention. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: Why does the government not ensure the real security of the rescue? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2015-02-16-199	Thank you so much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Despite new mistakes and my previous speech, I regret to say that the situation of ambulances has not changed or that the situation has probably even gotten worse. It is already becoming apparent that there will be no change in the near future, since we are seeing the inaction of the government. I'd like to ask you again why there's not enough ambulances available. Why spend a hundred million on the guard's cars instead of increasing the capacity of the ambulance service? Why does the government allow even in the event of an undisputed emergency alarm, they can only arrive at the scene an hour later? You said everything was fine, and you almost brag about how many ambulances you bought. However, it could not have been all right, because almost immediately ambulances were transferred to Budapest and Pest County, and at the end of the year the decree determining the maximum age of ambulances was withdrawn for ten years. Thus, 13 - year - old cars that have travelled more than half a million kilometers continue to walk. However, the government is not good with cars that are eight years old and half a mile away, so they spend another half billion forints on the Ministry's cars. There is no evidence of the problem that still exists when someone lost their life a few hundred yards from the rescue station until another ambulance arrived from Pesterzsébet. If there were enough organized ambulances and rescue workers available, similar cases could be avoided. [[17.20]] Not only is there no solution, but the government does not make the minimum that can be expected when it lets EU-funded 11 billion-dollar developments not take place in time. Will the costs of investments that have not been completed in time be guaranteed? If ambulances can't leave many times now because there aren't enough rescue workers, how are they going to operate another 22 rescue stations? When will the burden of paramedics and the appreciation of their work finally be brought into line? Thank you for the floor.
u2015-02-16-200	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-02-16-201	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I would ask that, when the opposition is talking about the various possibilities of house rules for its rights, it should be borne in mind that even Members who are late to their own speeches can say their own questions, thus also exercising fairness in housekeeping. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] A true gentleman is the head of the meeting, and it should be mentioned in an appropriate place, honourable Members. But I am standing here, and this is indeed a serious question that Congressman has asked regarding the emergency services. [[Interruption from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Here you have tried to talk about this issue as if the history of the rescue service began in 2010, but this is a much older organization, and you know very well that in the last two years of socialist governance there have been two years when no new ambulance purchases have taken place, and this disadvantage has had to be dealt with in recent years. That's what the government managed to do to provide a sufficient number of ambulances. I would like to correct so much in your speech that 13 years has always been the running time of ambulances, this is still the same amount, we did not raise this, we did not reduce it, the ambulances run the same way as before. During the four years, we did not have to buy four years of ambulances, but we had to buy six to seven years of ambulances, because the socialists made such irresponsible decisions during the last period. If you look at the main budget figures of the National Rescue Service, you will see HUF 23.4 billion on this line in 2010. In 2014, this HUF 23.4 billion increased to HUF 33 billion, and further changes were added to HUF 37.5 billion. So you can't say that the government spent less on ambulances or even more noticeably. More than 300 new ambulances have also been deployed at present. At the end of the last year, 21 out of HUF 500 million and up to April of this year, we bought 32 new ambulances out of 700 million forints, and four early-born ambulances were in order, and 22 new-built rescue stations and 60 upgrades are also under way, and I could still name the Aurél Gábor Scholarship and others. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-202	I thank the Secretary of State very much for his reply. Dear Parliament, László Varga, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What will happen to the Taós money, most of the resources will really go to craftsmen? It's an address. Mr László Varga has the floor.
u2015-02-16-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The corporate tax benefit scheme for visual team sports could be a huge help to Hungarian sports and re-education. However, this system, as we said many times when it was introduced and since then, is full of loopholes, pitfalls, and can often be used by craftsmen instead of re-sports. In many cases, in a small sports club there is not enough information to prepare such a proposal, it is very difficult to get in touch with the right entrepreneurs. So it's very difficult to recruit supporters for supply-raising clubs, and in many cases they can only succeed with parental help. And so the leaders of political life can influence in several cases which clubs and departments are eligible, which are not. Obviously, you will deny that, Mr Secretary, it must be a coincidence that out of 3200 settlements, Felcsú got the biggest resources right when the system was introduced. A professional head of a football training association gave a surprising interview a few weeks ago, said that there was also a mediation system between clubs and businesses. According to press reports, the broker's commission can be at least 5%, or even 40 percent, which obviously cannot be included in the tenders, so a variety of different, mostly non-legal methods have been developed. So I ask the Secretary of State: how much Taos support for visual team sports has been called off each year, and what amount of funding has not been uploaded? If there is such a thing, how does the Ministry intend to eliminate the illegal mediation system? How does the government intend to make the corporate tax benefit scheme more transparent and verifiable? How do you intend to make sure that subsidies really support supply sports at the last penny? Thank you, Mr. President. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-02-16-204	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State István Simicskó.
u2015-02-16-205	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The government has done its best to ensure the transparency of the visual team sport support system, and the use of resources is followed by a multi-stage technical and financial feasibility study and control mechanism. In addition, nearly 150 sports organisations were on-the-spot checks during the 2013-14 period. The control body shall be responsible for verifying the legitimate use of the amounts of aid. I believe that it is in the common interest of all of us that what you are talking about should be eliminated or not be seen in this type of phenomenon. One thing is certain that the Ministry is not responsible for investigating your assumptions, and no notification or complaint has been received by the Ministry in connection with such cases. What I can suggest to you, if you are aware of a specific case, is that you should press charges with the competent authority, because it is in our interest, too, that Tao resources be used for the purpose of sport. Moreover, the Government decree provides that the sponsor is not entitled to any remuneration by the supported organisation for the grant of the aid and that the contrary agreement is null and void. He asked about the extent to which the amounts of aid were drawn. I would like to inform you that in the 2014-15 period, only 122 billion HUF requested aid was received. The approved grant was HUF 70.9 billion, the amount called was HUF 42.4 billion, the requested amount was HUF 129 billion in the period 13-14, the approved amount was HUF 75 billion and the amount called was HUF 55 billion. In the year 12-13 there were 118.9 billion requested support, approved 58.5 billion, called 43 billion, and the aid received was 11-12 and 94.8 billion requested, approved and 33.5 billion withdrawn. I would like to say that out of 3200 settlements, 880 were built in sports facilities. I think that this is a result in itself, and the number of young people and children who play sports in visual team sports has increased by 110,000. All of this is a great achievement, and obviously we must act against abuses, which is in our common interest. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-206	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Permanent self-destruction at Fidesz? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2015-02-16-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! For years, you have said at ministerial and State Secretary level that Fidesz is the guarantee that there will be no land tax in Hungary. Then, of course, Fidesz did not respect this either, and a law amendment at the end of last year allows local governments to levy land taxes. Although they are trying to blame this on the municipalities, where it was introduced, but this is an absolute wrong attitude, in my opinion, because the municipalities are bleeding out, so in many cases they have no way of considering whether to introduce the land tax, but they do consider it a way out of trouble, and they are practically forced to carry out their duties at all. At the last parliamentary meeting in December, Mr Secretary of State said that, thanking me for the question, it is very good that I raised this issue, so the government can put under the farmers' Christmas tree that there will be no land taxes in Hungary and that it can remove all previous doubts. Well, for those of you who believed that, I think your Christmas is pretty sad. However, the government is not all right in this matter either, because Minister, Secretary of State, the meeting of the Agriculture Committee and the government are publishing conflicting and confusing news about this, and they are calling on each other to have or not to have a land tax. It would be nice if you could clear this up for once. Unfortunately, there was something else in the field of self-destruction, as last week's Committee on Agriculture voted against my motion to bring the national rural strategy to Parliament in the same way. This is the strategy that was adopted by the government at the time of József Ángyán's State Secretary, and this is the strategy that should have defined rural development in Hungary by 2020. [[17 .30]] And regretfully, we find that they do not dare to bring it to Parliament, they do not dare to bring it to the public, they do not commit to their earlier promises. I ask the Secretary of State to reassure us on both matters. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-16-208	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary István Nagy, Parliamentary State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture.
u2015-02-16-209	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, The position of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government on the same municipal tax is always the same: there must be consistency and consistency between the 25-year experience of the municipalities, the resource needs of the municipalities and the capacity of the inhabitants of the settlements. The 25 years of experience and wisdom developed by the local government in the local government handle this question wisely, the question whether it is possible to touch the taxation of the land. On the basis of the principle of the ban on double taxation, I must say to my fellow Member that there is much to worry about in the future, too. In addition, I would like to inform you that the wisdom of the municipalities shows that 11 municipalities are currently being introduced from among the 3200 municipalities. So, I have to say - by addressing your concern - there is no need for you to say this more often. With regard to the achievement of the objectives set out in the national rural strategy, I would like to note that the rural strategy is a long-term concept and its programmes are being implemented on an ongoing and scheduled basis. We have already recorded a number of results in the past period, but given the short speaking time, I would like to mention only a few examples: the launch of the Ős-Dráva programme, the measures related to the rural table, the preservation of rural heritage from New Hungary's rural development programmes, the actions of the Dányi Ignác plan have provided a number of opportunities to mobilise funding to achieve the rural strategy objectives. The tender source for the farm development programme has already been opened four times. I would also like to draw the attention of the honourable Member to some concrete results and measures. Amendment to the Small Producer Regulation: to develop a simpler food safety requirement system to facilitate access to the market for small-scale products, with the result that the number of small-scale producers has also increased; and by amending the Public Procurement Act, small-scale producers can sell their products directly in public catering. And I can give you a number of similar examples: the shortness of time allows you to do so. Thank you for asking, Congressman.
u2015-02-16-210	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Márta Demeter, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior a question, "Isn't those who deal with the obligation of establishment the real danger?" It's an address. It's for the congresswoman.
u2015-02-16-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In recent weeks, Antal Rogán has become the leading fighter in the fight against those fleeing poverty, and he is the one who is pushing Viktor Orbán's message every day, according to which people from other cultures are not welcome in Hungary. It's not like any of the people who come to our borders want to settle down in our increasingly poor country. If it's from anyone, Antal Rogán, these words are particularly false. While expressing a strong response to those fleeing poverty, he opens the gates to wealthy businessmen, because in exchange for some money loans, there is no easy way to obtain a residence permit in the European Union as easily as in Hungary. Anyone who is willing to lend a loan to the Hungarian State can obtain a residence permit without having been in Hungary for even a minute. This will allow you to walk freely throughout the European Union. Antal Rogán's laws on European practices do not require any economic activity in Hungary. In addition, the Hungarian budget does not even win the business as a whole because of the offshore companies installed in the sale of settlement government bonds, as well as the discount prices applied, but the persons behind the offshore companies make a very profitable profit. Who are really rich in these businesses? Don't you think, Secretary of State, that such dubious business mergers could pose a greater threat to the security of our country than refugees from hunger and poverty to the western part of Europe? If, for the sake of Hungary's security, they really want to tighten immigration rules, they should not start by eliminating the right of establishment. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-02-16-212	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-02-16-213	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Constitutional Protection Office, the Counter-Terrorism Centre and the police are investigating whether the establishment of a foreign citizen endangers Hungary's public security or national security. The strict rules for this are laid down in a government decree, namely the Government Decree implementing the law on the entry and residence of third-country nationals. Each applicant shall be subject to an individual national security and public security investigation during the procedure. Without this procedure, a national residence permit shall not be issued and shall not be issued. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to inform you that national security checks are, of course, also carried out for companies selling settlement bonds. The Ministry of National Economy is responsible for the economic aspect of the issue and the Parliament's Economic Committee is responsible for all other matters. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-02-16-214	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 5:36 p.m., and we're at the end of questioning. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of a framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part, is now taking place until the end. The submission is made in T/2922. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I give the floor to Mr László Szabó, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-02-16-215	Mr President, Dear House, The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and Mongolia was signed on 30 April 2013 by representatives of the Member States in Brussels. This has so far been ratified by 11 Member States and Mongolia. The entry into force of the Agreement shall be subject to ratification by each Member State of this Agreement. The agreement with Mongolia constitutes a further step forward for the enhanced political and economic engagement of the European Union in East Asia. The agreement includes, inter alia, EU standardised political clauses on human rights, national criminal courts, weapons of mass destruction, SALW and the fight against terrorism, as well as EU policies on taxation and migration. The EU has already concluded a similar partnership agreement with Vietnam and the Philippines, and it is expected that there will be such an agreement with other countries of similar importance. Hungary's Eastern opening policy and the ongoing reopening of our Embassy in Ulanbátor also justify Hungary's ratification of the partnership and cooperation agreement between the EU and Mongolia as soon as possible. Last December Magyar Nemzeti Kereskedőház Zrt. has opened an office in Ulanbátor, and our Joint Economic Committee also operates. This year, probably the second semester, will be the next joint committee meeting in Mongolia. This agreement will provide a basis for more effective cooperation between the EU and its Member States in development, trade, economic and judicial areas. Among other things, health, environmental protection, climate change, energy, education, culture, labour, employment and social issues, science and technology and transport are included. Besides the reopening of the Hungarian embassy, it is also important to celebrate this year the 65th anniversary of the admission of bilateral diplomatic relations with Mongolia. Today more than 77 Mongolian students are studying here in Hungary, 43 of whom are cost-effective. Last year, the President of the Republic of Mongolia visited us and held a business forum. We trust that this signature will be a further step in the further development of the economic and political relations between Mongolia and Hungary. Thank you very much. [[17.40]]
u2015-02-16-216	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-02-16-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The traditional friendship between the Member States of the European Union and Mongolia has been deepened by close economic, political and historical relations in recent years, and this agreement is also intended to further shape these relations. Today, we need to respond together to a number of serious problems, and these global tasks can only be solved through cooperation and mutual, continuous dialogue. Today, terrorism is the greatest threat to global security. In the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation with Mongolia, the Parties express their full commitment to combating all forms of terrorism, and cooperation also covers legal cooperation, the fight against money laundering, terrorist financing, organised crime and corruption. This international treaty includes EU policy clauses providing for human rights, international criminal courts, weapons of mass destruction, SALW, as well as EU policies on taxation and migration. The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement provides a basis for more effective cooperation between the EU and its Member States with Mongolia in the development, trade, economic and judicial fields. It covers areas such as health, environment, climate change, energy, education and culture, labour, employment and social issues, science and technology, and transport. Supporting the agreement before us is of particular importance for Hungary in terms of existing and active Hungarian-Mongol relations. Mongolia has traditionally been an important partner in the North-East Asian region. The shared sense of origin, strong emotional ties between the two peoples, a community of values based on parliamentary democracy, respect for fundamental human and freedoms, is an important link between the two countries. Mongolia believes that Hungary knows, understands and is able to represent the Mongolian cooperation efforts indicated towards the EU. Our relationships have outstanding traditions, their foundations are organized. President Árpád Göncz visited Mongolia in 1994. This was followed by a visit by the Mongol Heads of State in 1995, President of State in 2005, Prime Minister in 2010 and Minister of Environment and Green Economy in 2013 and by President Elbegdorzs Mongol in October 2014. During last autumn's Mongol presidential visit, at the opening of the Hungarian-Mongol Business Forum, President Elbegdorzs acknowledged the potential of cooperation between our countries. It highlighted agricultural cooperation, infrastructure development, the pharmaceutical industry and tourism. In these areas Mongolia awaits the investments of Hungarian companies. The 21st bridge station of Hungarian foreign trade, the Hungarian National Trading House in Ulanbátor has recently started its operation, creating excellent investment opportunities for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises in the Mongolian market, and Hungary will reopen its Ulanbátor embassy closed in 2006 in the first quarter of 2015 so that the trading house and the embassy can further develop the economic and political potential of the relationship between the two countries. Since 2012, our honorary consul has worked in Ulanbátor. Our parliamentary relations are developing well, and in both countries there is an IPU friendly department. It is important to highlight cooperation in education and culture. Based on the educational work plan in force between 2011-14, we provided 5-5 scholarships for each other's university students, which was complemented by the 15-15 scholarships offered in the Stipendium Hungaricum programme, which Mongolia also used. There are great traditions of learning Mongolian students in Hungary. About 400 students graduated from some college or university, many of them today belong to the middle and senior managers of their country. As regards scientific cooperation, we should mention the long-standing Mongolian course at ELTE Faculty of Humanities and the Mongolian Research Centre, which was opened last autumn, which was supported by the Asian state with an amount of EUR 15,000. The Department of Internal Asia of ELTE is a cultural bridge headquarter on which we can and can build to strengthen cooperation in everyday life. The fact that this is so true is an eloquent proof of yesterday's book presentation in Sankon. Thanks to the intervention of the head of the department, Professor Ágnes Birtalan, the translation and publication of the haikukötetet of the Mongol poet Urjin Khurelbaatar was made. Haikuk was made in Mongolian, Ómongol, English, Chinese and Hungarian languages, and the volume was illustrated by the painter and graphic artist Éva Pápai. The Sanki book launch is just an example of our countries' everyday cooperation, which can only be strengthened by this agreement. In view of this, I would like to ask my fellow Members to further support the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the EU and its Member States and Mongolia, both at the detailed debate stage and at the decision-making stage. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2015-02-16-218	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-02-16-219	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, On 27 July 2009, the Council authorised the Commission to negotiate a Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation with Mongolia. The negotiations started in January 2010 in Ulanbátor and were concluded in October 2010 in less than a year. After the Asia-Oceania Task Force approved the results of the negotiations, both parties initialled the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement in Ulanbátor on 20 December 2010. The agreement with Mongolia will replace the existing framework provided for by the Agreement on Trade and Economic Cooperation between the European Economic Community and Mongolia in 1993 and will make further progress with regard to the enhanced political and economic engagement of the European Union in East Asia. As Minister of State Szabó has already pointed out, this agreement opens a strategic chapter in relations between the European Union and Mongolia, as it includes EU political clauses on human rights, international criminal courts, weapons of mass destruction, SALW and the fight against terrorism, as well as EU policies on taxation and migration. The Framework Agreement covers four areas of cooperation: principles, rules, standards; sustainable development, including environmental and social development; trade, investment, particularly raw materials; and finally justice and freedom, including migration. It therefore covers areas such as health, environmental protection, climate change, energy, education, culture, employment, social issues, science, technology and transport. It also covers legal cooperation, money laundering and terrorist financing, organised crime and corruption. The Agreement shall be extended for a period of five years, which shall automatically be extended for a further year, provided that no Party declares in writing to the other Party that it does not intend to extend the Agreement six months before the expiry of any subsequent one-year period. Dear House, As has been said in the European Parliament in the debate on the relationship between the European Union and Mongolia, Mongolia, the 19th largest country in the world, occupies a strategic crossroads between China and Russia's rapidly growing markets. [[17.50]] At the request of Mongolia, the European Union is ready to share its experience, in particular as regards the adoption and mediation of European principles, standards and rules. The head of the EP delegation responsible for relations with Central Asia and Mongolia pointed out that Mongolia is characterised by a multi-party parliamentary system, separation of powers and relatively free public opinion. The level of protection of human rights is high compared to other countries in the region. The country is also facing a number of problems, such as difficult environmental conditions and continuous desertification. At the same time, it is very rich in mineral resources, such as copper, coal, tungsten, tin, gold, uranium, which in turn may attract a significant amount of capital inflows. It is clearly positive that for several years, the Mongolian government has tried to fight corruption with the help of the law and introduced a moratorium on the death penalty in 2010. Nevertheless, the country's population, living in this country with large and extreme climatic conditions, must cope with the consequences of the ongoing transformation process. The volume of trade is rather low. In the cultural area, for example, the extension of Erasmus-like programmes to this area would also facilitate the functioning of the area of cooperation, such as student exchanges. By the way of the framework agreement, we should also take a very short detour to the current issues of bilateral relations between Hungary and Mongolia. In line with the government concept of Eastern opening, these relations have been completed over the past period and have been given foreign policy and strategic priority. It is enough to recall that the Mongol head of state inaugurated a Mongolian research centre at the Eötvös Loránd University, while the Hungarian National Trading House opened an office in Ulanbátor. According to the government decision, the Hungarian embassy will be reopened soon. We very much hope that the results will be visible soon after the government's ideas and aspirations, since we have succeeded in strengthening our relations with a developing, hopeful country. The Magyar Nemzeti Kereskedőház announcement acknowledges that 50 percent of Mongolia's population would need a new apartment, as well as the issue of water supply, central heating and sewerage, among others, has been waiting for a solution for years. With the re-opening of the Hungarian foreign representation, the number of EU Member States that maintain an embassy in Ulanbátor will rise to five. Dear House, On several occasions, we have stressed that we do not consider the priority of external economic aspects to be devilish in diplomacy. Today, there can be a legitimate expectation for foreign representations to strengthen their relations in this direction. This is justified by the examples of many countries, but let us add that it is not at the expense of others. Therefore, the values and merits of classical diplomacy cannot be swept aside or thrown away, but can only be built on them to implement a successful foreign economic strategy. It would also be eligible for an Eastern opening policy if it were to produce tangible and clear economic results, i.e. its efforts could be underpinned by the government, for example, by increasing trade flows; but I must also underline here that it is not at the expense of other relations. With regard to the opening of the East, it is certainly worth highlighting: over the past period, we have overlooked the construction and deepening of relations, for example, with Turkey, Russia, and we may have had the idea that the Orbán government might be looking for an ideological and political example, which is not a good sign, and I do not think it is a good direction. However, this view does not seem to be correct, and it is a far worse situation, and it is more likely that a scenario - and perhaps this could be drawn out - is that instead of very closely controlled EU funds, the government may try to find resources from these countries and on their territory that it can use in a flexible manner, so to speak, by the Orbán government. I'm gonna put this in parentheses. But back in July 2014, Minister for Foreign Affairs Navracsics said that the opening of the East should not be a western closing. Despite the foreign minister's promise, almost in parallel with the opening of foreign representations in Mongolia and Ecuador, the government closed our foreign representations in two EU countries, the Hungarian embassy in Cyprus and Estonia. However, Estonia is not only important because of its membership of the EU. In addition to the security policy factors voiced by the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Parliament, we should mention another argument in addition to Estonia, an argument which the current foreign-economic-oriented Foreign Ministry administration understands, namely that Estonia and I had a fairly high turnover in foreign trade in 2012. The importance of Hungarian-Mongol business relations is indicated by the fact that in 2012, Hungarian products arriving in Mongolia barely exceeded HUF 1.5 billion. The sales of products coming from Mongolia into our country are even less significant, with only HUF 1.1 million in a given year - they hear it well, my fellow Members, HUF 1.1 million - which is less than a Hungarian ministerial salary. In light of this, therefore, we cannot be happy that the Hungarian government is developing the network of Hungarian foreign representations at the cost of closing another extremely important foreign representation. Dear House, Returning to the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the European Union and Mongolia: the Hungarian Socialist Party considers it important to signal at this crucial stage of development of the country that we support Mongolia and promote the development of democracy and the rule of law. We must encourage Mongolia to build closer relations with the European Union, its Member States, and encourage it to adopt European standards. We must help to build a market economy and to develop much closer economic and trade relations, which can only be done if there is legal certainty and the rule of law evolves. I am convinced that the cooperation and partnership agreement will also play a decisive role in these matters. We fully agree with the terms of the agreement, and we will, of course, support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-220	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-16-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik welcomes the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement with Mongolia and we fully support its ratification as soon as possible. We consider it very important that this convention be filled with content, because in many cases, in the case of agreements of a similar nature, it is the case that, compared to the original intentions, the outcome will be much less positive and, in essence, the agreement will remain only gestureal. We hope that's not the case in this case. I consider it a positive development, as the Secretary of State pointed out, that last December the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce opened in Ulanbátor. We are in favour of this, as we have already made a firm commitment to the Eastern opening policy a number of years ago, as well as to the expansion of trade relations in this direction. And I would like to ask the Secretary of State - obviously not about the merchant house in Mongolia, but about the trading houses that have been opened so far - to get some kind of report within a committee or in other ways, because the government had rather high hopes for this, and we would like to know where we are on this issue. Of course, I am trying to follow the website and the various news, but we would expect more accurate information on this matter. Of course, we also consider the re-opening of the embassy to be a positive thing, because we are talking about a relationship between the two peoples, which makes this absolutely necessary, either for our past or for historical reasons. So we definitely considered this a very important step. And I would like to know what concrete plans the government has for the future. For our part, we can say that we are interested in further strengthening relations with Mongolia, we are looking forward to negotiations in this direction, and we are also making our own proposals on this issue in the appropriate forums. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[18.00]]
u2015-02-16-222	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2015-02-16-223	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, It is usually a joyful occasion for the European Union to strengthen its international cooperation when concluding an association, accession or cooperation agreement with a new country. The European Community and then the Union, together with all its errors, have undoubtedly proved to be an effective instrument in a range of areas. Since World War II, it has contributed to the preservation of peace and stability on the continent, strengthening consumer protection and environmental regulation where necessary. And some countries can be forced to respect certain elements of the rule of law, as it may be familiar to many in this House. However, the European Union is a human creation. So it's not nearly flawless. Here, in our narrower environment, we have seen that free trade is a two - edged sword. There may also be unequal economic relations within the borders of the Union that have made Eastern and Southern Member States lose in many respects. In particular, it has put in a difficult position the vast sections of their population who did not have the opportunity, capital and expertise to participate in European production and trade. Now, when we talk about a cooperation agreement between Mongolia and the European Union and its Member States, or at least agree, we must bear in mind the same points. Ladies and gentlemen, I predict that the LMP fraction, with reservations, can support the publication of the agreement. But what's the hold-up with the LMP? Why can't they be happy? I can almost hear them asking me. After all, Mongolia is one of the fastest developing economies in the world. Thus, it is an important interest and it benefits both parties to broaden our cooperation. That's true, but we haven't opened all the details of the truth yet. Indeed, in recent years, Mongolia has been able to show GDP growth exceeding 10 per cent. However, we need to be clear, this is almost exclusively from mining activities and most of the time from environmentally destructive extraction. Mine concessions, which are not only in the hands of Russian and Chinese companies but also Western companies, have proved to be a hotbed of corruption in recent years. Inherent income is concentrated in the hands of a narrow power elite, while production causes huge social and environmental problems. According to the official report of the Mongolian Ministry of Environment, in the last few years alone, some 400 rivers and lakes have dried up because of mining. Over the last few years, I repeat, some 400 rivers and lakes have dried up because of mining. Desertification is becoming an increasing problem. The lifestyle of the nomadic population is becoming increasingly insufferable. That's why crowds flow to the capital. For those who can no longer find a place, they can stay in the refugee camps around Ulanbátor, where fixed water or electricity supply is only a dream. One of the undisclosed aims of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement is to make Mongolia an attractive investment destination for large European companies. This, of course, refers to mining companies. If we pay attention to them, from here in Europe, we can make them act in a fairer and more sustainable way than their fellow concession winners, then there is a chance that this cooperation will be lasting and that Mongolia will be a stable and predictable country. If not, if European companies are only proving to be quarterly novelists, then this cooperation will cause more harm to Mongolia than it will do. But this scenario would also be detrimental to the European Union. CHAPTER XXI Our cultural influence and attraction is so important in the first century that Europe offers more humane, greener solutions than its global competitors. I therefore call on my fellow Members to remember these dangers after the agreement has been published. Let us keep an eye on European investors, because it doesn't matter what our reputation in the world is. I think that we should consult the relevant working group in the European Parliament at regular intervals. The role of MEPs of Hungarian parties in this will be inevitable. I ask them from here not to forget the objective and regular examination of bilateral relations. At the same time, it is encouraging that the agreement specifically covers the involvement of small and medium-sized enterprises, the promotion of education and rural development in Mongolia. I therefore see that there is a real will on the part of the Union to make cooperation and the development of the Mongolian economy sustainable. The challenge is to show this in practice. We must not forget that, despite her problems, Mongolia has been a major success in building democracy and multi-party systems in an area of the world since the 1990s, where this is far from self-evident. For the above reasons, we can support overall the publication of the agreement, but this should not be the case. It is in the interests of all of us that Europe should not only be the lesser one bad for the Mongolian society and life, but also a real partner through preservation and value creation. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-02-16-224	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I would now have spoken to the first independent Member, but since an independent Member has not applied for a speech, I will ask if anyone wishes to apply for a two-minute speech. [[There's no candidate.]] No one's come forward. Therefore, Honourable Parliament, we would now have further speeches from Members, but I do not see a candidate. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr László Szabó State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours. Sorry, before I give the floor, the general debate is closed. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State, who will respond to what has been said.
u2015-02-16-225	Mr. President, thank you very much. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for your support... [[Interjection: No sound.]]
u2015-02-16-226	I need some help. [[Interjection: Your card's not in there.]] Cards? [[Dr. László Szabó: It's my fault, I'm sorry.]] Yeah, it doesn't work. The card needs to be placed in the device.
u2015-02-16-227	Yeah, we're good now. Thank you very much. So once again, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your comments. I am very pleased that we have a lot of common interest in implementing this agreement. Since this is the agreement between the European Union and Hungary, I fully agree that we will have to fill this with content afterwards, and indeed, it is only a framework, it will be up to us, all of us, to build on historical and cultural relations, and indeed to fill it with economic content. And by obtaining a market for Mongolia, for Hungarian technologies such as environmental protection, water management, food industry, health industry, I am sure that Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises will really find this market attractive. Culturally, Mongolia is very open in our direction, so I trust that the very low economic activity that is now in place will increase exponentially between the two countries in the coming years. Thank you very much, and thank you for your support.
u2015-02-16-228	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the amendment of individual laws to the extent of the excise security will follow until closure. Opinion of János Lázár and L. Simon László Fidesz MEPs T/2801. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr L. Simon László, the author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-02-16-229	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I had a bit of a disturbance here because I remembered that I'm not going to be a single representative, so I don't have to keep the expo from the velvet chair. [[István Apáti: Political dissociation.]] Ladies and gentlemen, We have made a very brief but extremely practical presentation together with Minister Lazarus: we have initiated a re-regulation of the excise security which has triggered a relatively large debate in recent months, together with the Minister. [[18.10]] As you know, my fellow Members, the Ministry of National Economy has put forward a proposal to increase the amount of excise security for alcohol products, beer, wine, champagne and intermediate alcohol products from HUF 22 million to HUF 150 million. This triggered a small professional debate. After all, Gergely Gulyás proposed a temporary solution as Chairman of the Legislative Committee to introduce a striped system, but we, in consultation with a number of industry players, proposed not to increase the level of excise security, but to introduce a decrease of around 10 percent compared to the situation on 1 January 2014. It clearly shows that our aim is to ensure that industry players are able to do their job under the right conditions. In fact, this is what I said before the agenda this morning, that we should listen to what voters are saying and what they need to change. The concept of excise security has been known to relatively few until this debate has unfolded. Income security shall be paid by those who trade in alcoholic products or trade in goods which have been subject to excise duty. The rate of the excise security shall depend on the form of the activity. Farmers shall comply with the excise security in the manner and amount laid down by law after the lodging of the licence application, taking into account the type of licence and the tax base of the excise product, where the excise security may be lodged in cash or in financial security. The cash excise, customs and other activity security shall constitute the amount paid to the NAV customs office's current account. Ladies and gentlemen, We have submitted a simple, practical amendment to the House, which proposes the introduction of an excise security of HUF 20 million instead of HUF 22 million for alcoholic products. Well, so much for the background and justification of the whole law. I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-02-16-230	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. You have the floor.
u2015-02-16-231	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Mr. Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, There is no need for a long speech, I believe, in the opinion of the bill, since considering the proposals submitted by the two Members, in particular their justification and arguments, the Government will be able to take on board the objectives set out by the Members and support the proposal to reduce administrative burdens, reduce burdens and reduce public burdens for the entrepreneurs concerned. In view of this, the government supports the bill.
u2015-02-16-232	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Mr Tamás László, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-02-16-233	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The purpose of the excise security is to ensure that fines and public debts imposed on the State in the event of a tax liability or other infringements which the excise subjects may have failed to comply with and detected by the authority. This is a very hard statement, however, I say that this bill is basically an entrepreneur-friendly bill, because it is about the government and the two submitting representatives taking into account the intention that social speeches, the individual companies, have indicated to the government in the case of trade in excise goods. There were many comments that the increase in the security alone would not facilitate the whitening of the economy, and the small-volume traders would not be able to manage the increased amount of security, thus they would be excluded from the market, which is not in the interest of the government, the Parliament led by Fidesz-KDNP, and the colorfulness of which would mean that several brand and drink specialties could disappear from the offer of shops and restaurants. So on this basis, we say that the solution that this bill intends to put to the vote in its proposal is essentially for the support of farming and the entrepreneurial sphere. It does not support the broadband system, it does not support the solution that was adopted in 2010 to drastically increase the rate of excise security and even proposes a reduction of nearly 10 per cent, reducing the excise security of HUF 22 million to HUF 20 million for alcohol derivatives, beer, wine, sparkling wine and other alcoholic products. I ask the honourable Parliament to vote in favour of this entrepreneur-friendly bill. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-02-16-234	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, MSZP Group.
u2015-02-16-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. It was very interesting to introduce this amendment of the law, as we have heard several expressions that this is a practical regulation that was preceded by some professional debate. We have just heard from the lead speaker of Fidesz that we are actually talking about an entrepreneur-friendly step, a 10% reduction. I expected when my fellow Member would say that this is a reduction in wages for entrepreneurs, an important reduction in fees, a reduction in burden, but we do not suffer so much memory loss that we do not remember how this whole story started, which we hope to end with this amendment proposal. This was started by bringing a bill that raised the security of HUF 22 million for drink wholesalers to HUF 150 million after the trafikmuti, the tobacco dog. That's how this regulation started. The consequence of this would have been, as the government said in one of the materials, I would like to quote this literally: Of the 150 alcohol dealers, there are only ca. Five or six traders would remain. Typically, traders who mostly distribute their own products in a family business are fatally affected because larger trades are not open to their quality but only small quantities of available products. Typically, such products come from the plants of family wineries, champagne makers, pálinka makers and handicraft brewers. This appeared here as a government post, and it was already very strange how this proposal came before Parliament, if I remember correctly, in the framework of the financial salad laws, not even when the tax laws were adopted. Then not only the parties, but also the journalists, began to investigate who these traders could be, who would then remain on the market, who would be the 5-6 trading companies that would be able to pay this amount, and then show the NAV that this guarantee was available. And look at the wonder, it turns out that this is what the newspapers said, that businesses close to Fidesz, such as one of the barmakers belonging to or related to the CBA, could have stayed in this competition and provided the 150 million forints guarantee that they should have made. The Legislative Committee and its chairman immediately stepped up and suggested that this would not be good, because, on the one hand, the internal debates, the corruption in-fighting within the Fidesen, we do not know this, we can only guess this from the various statements, but he said that this was not the case, and he did not want to assist in the story, the proposal that Trafikkuti, after the tobacco dog, will also bring the liquor dog and make it a law. [[18.20]] Not to mention that it is already a habit for the Fidesz government to carry out individualised legislation: there are always exceptions, there are always exceptions. Then there was a mishap in the great legislative noise at the end of the previous year, because not this lane system came into force, but the 150 million HUF rule came into force, in a completely incomprehensible way. It was difficult for us to recall the legislative committee meeting where this happened, and then we remembered that, yes, this was the legislative committee meeting where Gergely Gulyás was not present, but that this meeting was chaired by Mr Balla, Vice-President of the Committee. He said the wording wasn't ready yet, but it's not really going to be a big change, so he took a break and then held the meeting two hours later, and it turned out that there was quite a change to the Legislative Committee, because 150 million forints remained in it, so we think it went on in the background; ministers, vice-president of the Parliament, a debate, a row to go with this drink poo or not to go with this drink poo. After several statements were made by Gergely Gulyás at the beginning of the year, when this also came out as a result of a newspaper article, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Gulyás, woke up to the fact that what the government was concerned about was that certain nearby Fidesz businesses would benefit very well from this rule, but that more than 140 entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs, family entrepreneurs, as he said in the government's argument, would be ruined, shut down, and look after a new livelihood, and that would have affected the same number of families. Then Minister János Lázár came forward and asked himself this whole situation, and said that he would solve it with a hussar cut, cut the Gordian knot, and then announced this amendment. And in a hypocritical way, what you now call practical and entrepreneurial friend, he even said not to be 22 million, but to be 20 million, indicating that he was actually washing his hands, had nothing to do with this story, he took the view that the burden of entrepreneurs should be eased. However, we will not forget what this whole story is really about, and what debate has developed between Gergely Gulyás and Minister János Lázár. Obviously, it cannot be compared to the Simicska-Orbán debate, because the obscene, vulgar terms, as the Secretary of State said during the afternoon, were not spoken, but it was a serious sign that there were debates within Fidesen, and there are conflicts, conflicts that are very suspicious and raise the possibility of corruption. This is how we came to this bill, and I am sorry, fellow Members, that I have recalled the story of this proposal because it is worth learning and learning from, especially for you. The legislation that helps fast, individualised and privileged Fidesz entrepreneurs is not in Hungary's interest, nor would it bring forward such hypocritical proposals if they finally presented legislation for the benefit of the Hungarian people and made decisions. This, I think, was a scandalous process, and by the end of which - I trust very much - we can now put an end to it. There's one more thing I'd like to tell you. On the basis of this story, we will present a bill - and I ask you to support it - so that it is not possible to submit such tax or revenue legislation in the course of the year, because it makes the lives of these companies unpredictable, it cannot be possible to plan an economic year, and I trust that if such a law exists, then perhaps the government will refrain from such conduct and will not submit such proposals. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-236	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr János Volner, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-16-237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I see you have a curious look at my fellow pro-government Members. In any case, it is a fact: it is not the first time that the government has submitted to Parliament legislation which is personalised, in the final moments. At the meeting of the Legislative Committee, several persons who seemed to be at least lobbyists from the outside approached the Fidesz national MEP in the last moments, and basically began to influence the pro-government position on the extent of the excise security by using a very simple method of whispering into the ear. The measure that was set at HUF 150 million was obviously inexorably high for smaller companies, so the government practically ensured, as the market analysis showed, that the number of players in competition would be quite reduced. In practice, only a few capital-powered, larger companies would have had the opportunity to trade these various beverage products, and family businesses, who are important not only because they are smaller and are classic in terms of the size of the plant that government policy wants to embrace at least at a rhetorical level, but also because small companies can be present in market segments where large companies are not or can only be more expensive. Each player in the economy has its place and role. The proposal put down by the government side would have intervened in this very harshly, and, by definition, this would have been the way in which the competition processes would have been damaged, because if small players were excluded from a market and only larger companies could remain, because the legislative power has imposed such financial constraints on them, it obviously does not serve the efficiency of the economy. It is also an interesting and noticeable topic that, like the regulation on beverage products, this government effort has spread across many other sectors, and we have seen a very similar one in tobacco products. There, too, the government came up with and managed to get the interest groups close to it to order, more money, and this was also the case: a casino concession, which Andy Vajna, as the government commissioner of the film industry and, as a private contractor, is clearly a beneficiary of everyone, and a number of similar economic sectors can still be listed in this area. The attempt alone to ensure that tax forints are available with a higher amount of excise security, I think, in this case, that the government has said, quite unduly, that it is possible to achieve this objective without it, and, of course, without it, the need for the budget to recover tax forints can be guaranteed, as has been the case so far. Thus, by reducing the burden on the government itself, at least by making an amendment to its own position, it can be agreed, but by the fact that legislation is being done at the last minute, unthinkingly, and this is surrounded by phenomena such as what we have seen in the Legislative Committee, that legislation is taking place along lobbying interests at the last minute, we must, of course, reject it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-16-238	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2015-02-16-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, If it weren't tragic, which these two legislative proposals represent, it might as well look funny, but it's not. In December, in the framework of the large salad laws, a proposal was presented to Parliament to raise excise security for alcohols from 22 million to 140 million forints. This measure means the elimination and killing of smaller traders. We have seen Fidesz deliberately destroy an entire sector in order to benefit some of its own, so it was not possible for a long time to know whether there was accidental or deliberate damage. [[18.30]] The measure does not only damage the market, since wholesalers in quasi-monopolistic situations can raise prices, while a large number of jobs are lost in damaged ones, but also the budget is losing because of declining employment and fewer paying companies. In fact, it is not yet known that the problem was dilettant legislation or the intrusion of some lobbying group. Gergely Gulyás tried to correct the error twice at the end of last year, but failed. The apparatus protected the scrap with teeth and nails, or the lobbying interests of an unknown background group. The T/2520 in front of us now. Gergely Gulyás tries, for the third time, to correct the error by introducing a lane system. The other one, T/2801. János Lázár proposes a single reduction of HUF 20 million. The harsh thing is not that there are two conflicting proposals coming from the government side at once, but that which is reflected in the justification for the latter proposal. He blames his fellow rapporteur for the bad proposal, who at least tried to do something about the previous bad decision. He pretends that the Prime Minister is not responsible for dilettant legislation. In terms of content, LMP is T/2520. The EESC agrees with an amendment. The lane system should be supported in principle, since it is good that the security depends on the value of the goods marketed. At the same time, it should be supported to reduce the lower rate from HUF 22 million to HUF 20 million. In addition to changing the extent of the guarantee, we would like to draw the attention of honourable pro-government Members to the fact that there are more problems with excise insurance. There are indications that checks on payments and the resulting sanctions are not being enforced. They don't make any rules if they can't enforce it. That is why we propose that fewer ideas be thrown into the future to suddenly transform different areas, and that more energy be used to comply with the rules and to operate the system. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-02-16-240	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Since no one has applied for further speeches as an independent representative... [[Laszlo Varju reporting.]] Congressman, according to the rules of the house, I'd like to be notified with respect at the push of a button. I give you the floor, Congressman, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2015-02-16-241	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I don't know how long you're hoping to get away with presenting the filth you've done in the second half of last year. In fact, within the framework of the debate and war within the House within the Fidesen, businesses were threatened and placed in an almost impossible situation. It was about the same thing that they promised 150 to 200 companies that they'd get an incredibly big slap. Now, if all this fails, they'll be able to make it seem like you've actually done the right thing. But it's simple: the filth you've committed, the mob governance you're doing, the consequence of what you couldn't agree on, to make it right in this way, I don't think you can do it anymore. Today, the titles may appear that Fidesz does not actually kill most of the liquor wholesalers, and so they can continue to operate. Therefore, last December we presented a proposal for a resolution to draw attention to your hypocritical attitude. We have proposed that yes, there should be a proposal for a decision, and when the government says so or so in relation to the establishment of wholesale liquor units or the national liquor store network, they should declare it in a parliamentary decision. You negled it then, missed it, and now you're coming back and trying to fix what you did wrong last year. Therefore, the reference that you are doing this for the benefit of businesses is a hypocritical attitude. It is their duty not to make businesses worse, but to put them in a better position. So what you've done wrong before, you have to fix it. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2015-02-16-242	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We would now have two-minute speeches, but since no one has applied for a two-minute speech, no one has applied in writing, so I am giving the floor to Members who have applied in the normal time frame. Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, will take the floor.
u2015-02-16-243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, János Volner has already said in his speech as lead speaker what our problem is with this proposal. Of course, with the facilitation, Jobbik agrees, we will not be able to underline this, but it is really quite amazing that this proposal has now come before us. I'd rather just ask the Secretary of State a question. If the actors in this sector are not killed and have decided to make this relief go away, is there any hope that a similar relief will be made for the rescue of the pálinka and those involved in this sector? This way, we can expect this in hindsight, because they have similar problems, and if they don't act very quickly, hundreds of families will be on the edge of the block. Typically, families who have undertaken European Union proposals to encourage you, in the heat of your great pálinka-freedom fight, thus having a five-year maintenance obligation. Many other problems are drawn to this, and I think I do not need to detail this, Mr Secretary of State. I know I'm a little off topic here, but since we're dealing with this problem, the amazing nature of your legislation, it would be nice to have an answer to that, too. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-02-16-244	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr L. Simon László, as rapporteur, to respond to what has been said. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-16-245	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you all very much for your speech. Overall, I cannot judge what has been said in the debate other than that my fellow opposition Members will support the proposal, as they agree with the reduction. Another question is that we are once again in the debate in the position that it doesn't matter whether we have a hat or not, we can be hit. If we see in some bill that we have to go in a different direction, then the problem is, if we don't see it, that's the problem. So, my opposition fellow Members were apparently not interested in the clear intention of their representatives to put Hungarian businesses in a better position and, by the way, to correct a previous wrong proposal, they tried to catch us with all kinds of actual policy tools. But in fact, it is the opposite, as my fellow Member Varju said. We are not the hypocrites, but you, my honourable fellow Member. To say that it is hypocritical to present this proposal to the House in the interest of businesses and to expect us to correct the mistake that we ourselves have caused... Why, Congressman, what is happening? Isn't that what we're doing? Isn't that what we're doing? To whom do we reduce the excise security, if not in the interests of those who have to pay? [[Nándor Gúr and Ildikó Borbély Bangóné intervene.]] And those are those businesses... you didn't say it, Congressman Varju did. Congresswoman, you have to be in the debate and you know what I'm talking about. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Don't say it!]] So, for whose sake do we reduce the excise security? For those who have to pay excise security as an entrepreneur. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Yes! Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] I don't understand, I don't know what Congressman Varju's problem is. [[Intercoms from the benches of the MSZP.]] I already told you. I'm talking now, not you. All in all, I can say that thanks to God, the pro-government speaker has shown that both the governing party and the government support my proposal by Minister Lazarus and my individual representatives. I would like to ask my fellow Members of the opposition now, and I would like to ask you now, the truth must be that you are now on the side of Hungarian businesses or not. Because if you find something wrong with this bill and you won't vote to reduce excise security from 22 million to 20 million [[Nándor Gúr: 18!]] Then it is clear that you are not on the side of Hungarian businesses. [[18.40]] On the question of the Hungarian congressman regarding the brewing of wages - because he said that he was asking the Secretary of State [[Hungarian Zoltán: From any of them.]] I did not think it was clear to Mr Tállai, and it is not clear to me which of us you asked, but I do not wish to answer this question now, because I think that this is the table of the Secretary of State of Tállai. But there's only one thing I can say. [[Intercoms from the opposition side.]] that the Hungarian government and the pro-government majority are committed to solving the Hungarian pálinka brewing issue, but this is not the subject of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support this proposal to greatly improve the situation of Hungarian businesses. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-246	I thank you, Congressman, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, Before we move on to the next item on the agenda, I'm ordering a two-minute recess. In two minutes, we hope that the author will arrive according to our information. [[István Apáti: Disciples against him! Nándor Gúr: This is the first day of the House!]] Congressman, I've ordered a two-minute break without any separate private conversation. Everyone can talk any way they want at break. [[Break: 18.41-18.44 Péter Harrach enters the Chamber. Applause from the ranks of the MSZP. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. A general discussion of the bill amending Act I of 2012 on the Code of Labour in the context of the ban on Sunday work in the retail sector will follow. A separate motion by Members of the KDNP of Kristóf Szatmáry Fideszes and Péter Harrach T/2413. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Péter Harrach, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-02-16-247	Mr President, Dear House, Indeed, I have been informed that Parliament is working hard and that this proposal will be presented in time, but this has happened prematurely, and I apologize for that. The bill submitted consists of only three paragraphs, two of which are substantive, so I think that the use of 30 minutes might show excessive self-confidence, so I will try to sum it up briefly. Of course, there was also a background to this bill, which is also addressed in the title, about the prohibition of working in the retail sector on Sundays. It was adopted by Parliament on the 16th of December and will enter into force on 15th March. The law was based on the intention that no one should be forced to work against his will on Sunday, but that Sunday should indeed be a day of rest for the vast majority of the country. As a first step, we managed to limit Sunday work in the retail sector. It is important to stress that the interests of workers have been taken into account when adopting the regulation. Trade, which is the driving sector of the national economy, is limited only to a reasonable extent by the legislation adopted, subject to the application of obvious exceptions. It was an important objective of the proposal that it did not want to limit the opening of small family business if these are not large commercial units and during the otherwise prohibited period the owner of the business or their assisting family members carry out the commercial activity themselves. An exception is made for a number of services that meet the needs of the population, such as commercial activities in the accommodation, tourist services, commercial service activities, catering and shops in the world heritage area. However, let us turn to this bill, which proposes to amend Act I of 2012 on the Labour Code, with the aim of providing the employee employed at the employer in the retail business with a salary of 100 per cent on Sunday. At present, the Labour Code is 140. Pursuant to § (1) of the Act, 50 per cent in the case of Sunday's work, and Sunday's allowance. Under the current Labour Code, the employee is entitled to a 100 per cent wage supplement for working on public holidays. According to the legislation, public holidays: 1 January, 15 March, Easter Monday, 1 May, Whitsun Monday, 20 August, 23 October, 1 November, 25 and 26 December, but Easter and Pentecost Sundays also have a 100 percent wage supplement. The proposed legislation is in line with the bill prohibiting Sunday work in the retail sector, which aims to limit the vulnerability of workers working in retail to Sunday opening hours. [[18.50]] 50 per cent in the case of Sunday's work, and a Sunday's allowance. Under the current Labour Code, the employee is entitled to a 100 per cent wage supplement for working on public holidays. According to the legislation, public holidays: 1 January, 15 March, Easter Monday, 1 May, Whitsun Monday, 20 August, 23 October, 1 November, 25 and 26 December, but Easter and Pentecost Sundays also have a 100 percent wage supplement. The proposed legislation is in line with the bill prohibiting Sunday work in the retail sector, which aims to limit the vulnerability of workers working in retail to Sunday opening hours.(18.50) However, in cases where the legislation creates or allows the possibility of working on Sundays in the retail trade, for example in the Advent period, it is necessary for Sunday workers to receive a much higher wage supplement than is currently the case. This bill serves this purpose. In addition, it intends to ensure that these workers can be required to work up to two Sundays in a calendar month. This is what prompted us to bring forward this short amendment of the law, and I look forward to the opinions of the various factions. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-248	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State, who will present the Government's position.
u2015-02-16-249	Dear Parliament, Mr President, First of all, I would like to inform you that the government agrees with the objectives of the bill. The law already adopted to limit the opening hours on Sunday is primarily in the interest of those working in retail. The aim of adopting the law was to make Sunday a day of rest for everyone, as is the practice in many other European countries. The bill before us is a continuation of this idea, so it is indeed in line with the law on the prohibition of working in the retail sector on Sunday. A further reduction in the vulnerability of trade workers could result in the introduction of a 100 per cent wage supplement on Sunday, as well as the possibility for them to work on a maximum of two Sundays a month. However, I must also draw the attention of the authors to the fact that the provisions of the bill are not fully in line with the regulatory principles of the Labour Code. Among these, I am thinking primarily of labour law rules on wage allowances. In this respect, the motion uses a different terminology compared to the current legislation and only partly takes into account the 2005 CLXIV on trade. concepts used by law. Therefore, the 100 per cent allowance cases included in the proposal will not be clearly defined in practice, and we therefore ask the authors to amend the proposal jointly so that it can indeed meet the original objectives of the regulation. Dear Parliament, Once again, the government supports the proposal.
u2015-02-16-250	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by its representatives, the first of which will be the speeches by the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Becsó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. The speaker's speech takes 15 minutes. You have the floor.
u2015-02-16-251	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The situation is now ripe for the fact that many Western European examples, including the Austrian or German model, regulate the opening of commercial outlets in Hungary. The recently adopted law also seeks to limit trade, which is an important driving sector of the national economy, only to a reasonable extent, to the application of obvious exceptions, while at the same time helping to ensure that Sunday is indeed a day of rest for the vast majority of the country; a day off on which the short time available for family reunion is not even limited by the time spent shopping; a day off that does not ruin family and social life that facilitates recreation and recreation. Not to mention the fact that Sunday's public holiday has a health and even an environmental aspect, as, for example, there is a significant reduction in the noise burden across the country. The adopted proposal prohibits the opening of shops only on Sundays and public holidays. In other cases, such as Saturday, it is only limited in time. The main rule is that shops can be opened between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. in Hungary. An important objective of the adopted proposal is not to restrict the opening of small family businesses if they are not large commercial units and in otherwise prohibited periods the owners or their assisting family members carry out commercial activities themselves. Today, the bill before this House amends Act I of 2012 on the Code of Labour with the aim, or more precisely, of supplementing the bill already adopted by providing the employee employed at the employer of retail activity with 100 percent of the salary in the case of Sunday work. In addition, the bill provides that employed workers may be obliged to work on Sundays on a regular basis no more than two occasions in a calendar month. I call on my fellow Members to make amendments, but to support this initiative. Thank you for the floor.
u2015-02-16-252	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-16-253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am not surprised that my fellow Member Harrach arrived a little late, since this morning, Kristóf Szatmáry - I believe that the bill was put forward together - said that this afternoon it would not come before Parliament. In fact, the authors themselves were not even aware of what was going to be here today: it will be here in Parliament's walls, it will not be here in Parliament's walls, it must be negotiated at a committee meeting, or it will not be necessary to negotiate. Well, it's a good thing that my fellow Member Becsó is sitting on the bench fairly, and the opposition speaker's opinion So he could put it in his head. But let's look at the content of this. Here, ladies and gentlemen, they are talking not only about the proposal, but also about this draft law I will close and close. That is why I am forced to say some of the introductory points in a fitting way. You just have to look at our immediate environment. I am not thinking of Hungary, but of Europe, and within Europe, of countries who have considered, considered, done it, I am thinking of Sunday's closure, and now I am reaping backwards, because they see that this is not right, economically, adapted to the needs of people, for many other reasons. I think that because of the thinking of a parliamentary party, it should not have been possible to make a direct decision, which breaks Hungarian customs, because it is not a story here that people do not go shopping on Sunday for any reason that they are offering them a better offer, they provide a different supply platform, but it is a story about not being practically able to buy in these units. That's part of the story. I think it's basically wrong, but anyway, we're past the decision, and in December, you're going to have to face this ode, and when you're going to have to reap it backwards, like I said, I want you to defend the adoption of this law with the same elane, which is clearly wrong, which will clearly displease society. By the way, if you are serious about what you are doing, that this is right, as it is, then we should not use every means to prevent, let us say, a referendum on such a matter. Because the reason why we keep seeing people looking for different actors is how and how to present wrong initiatives so that time can be wasted so that, say, a year can't be dealt with on this issue. Now, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's You believe that, you believe that you exercise power, you do not perform service, you exercise power, and you can therefore do all this. So do it. Then the judgment of value will come after time, and I say, when it is to be reaped backwards, then do so reaping at least as loudly as they did at the moment of the decision. [[19.00]] The problem is not only that Sunday is thus limited, but also that tens of thousands of people are deprived of the opportunity to buy, but also of the opportunity to work. The problem, you know, is that not only a direct reduction in the number of people employed within the framework of each retail unit, but also indirectly, which is on top of all this, and which in this context appears to be a service activity. One word, like a hundred, can say anything, life unfortunately justifies what I say, that by magnitude tens of thousands - and possibly tens of thousands - of jobs are reduced in itself. We also have to face this, we have to do this, gloriously, and we have to say, yes, we thought that it was okay to have 10-15-20 thousand people in employment, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter that these people can't earn bread, and they can't give the child anything on Sundays or weekdays. It doesn't matter, the point is, you can't go to the store on Sundays, you can't buy on Sundays. If we are already working on Sundays, I would say, my fellow Members, that if you have come up with this proposal, which is, by the way, a proposal that comes from the regulatory system of your 2012 Ugly Act I, the Labour Code, then it would be worth extending, you know, to do not only what is being done here within the framework of the law, but to say that Sunday work, Sunday work, not only within the framework of retail units, but everywhere, within the framework of Sunday work. Not the ban, no, if there's work, it's the one-percent pay-off, Sunday pay-out for everyone at the time. Not with someone and half of them and a quarter of them and a fraction of them. No, if it were to work on Sunday, I would expect the minimum within the framework of the Christian Democratic proposal, and expect it to be extended by 100% to anyone who has to do work on Sunday in a forced manner, so that it will be combined with a 100% wage supplement. The story is very simple: there are services - this is what my fellow Member Harrach knows as a former minister - which cannot practically afford to miss Sunday, and cannot do so on Sunday. I don't care if I'm talking about firefighters, paramedics, anyone else, but I could be talking about a lot of livestock people or a lot of other things. Well, we're talking about Sunday work here too, so we're gonna have to make sure that we're adding 100% pay, Sunday's bonus. Those who pass through in this regard should also say "be" in the alphabet and make what we are talking about true for everyone. You know, in 2012, with the rewriting of the Labour Code - which basically exposed workers - remember, my fellow Member, and do this proudly, they abolished afternoon allowances, reduced night allowances. I don't want to talk about many other things, let's just say, I don't want to talk about, in particular, that, in terms of collective agreements, measures have been taken that, within the framework of companies operated by the State, no collective agreement could have been more positive than that of the Labour Code. Yet, the specific feature of collective agreements is that the Bible - the Bible, you know, my fellow Member - is the code of work in this case, so that more positive diversions can be made within the framework of the collective agreement. Now, you branded it in 2012, so you couldn't do that. But I'm going to go back to the fact that, in terms of allowances, the afternoon was closed, the night was reduced. It is not credible to me what you say in this regard, but you try to give your hand in the middle of your political interests - quote - or you put lollipops in people's mouths to suck on and enjoy yourself. This is not about you doing what I would do on the basis of real, well-intentioned inner thoughts, in accordance with my values and my judgement, because then, as I said, I would extend to the people who are forced to work on Sunday, the financing of a 100% wage supplement. But it also has to be said that if we look at the last five years, for example, we have managed to get to Hungary through the regulation of the Labour Code and other measures so that more work can be done in this country than before, and in many cases for less money. You know that, too, and I am only giving you these key examples to stimulate my fellow Member's intention to change in this regard, not only about the public workers who have lost one third of their money in this period, but also about those who are working today for basically five thousand forints less money than five years ago, while your esteemed Prime Minister has been proclaiming through posters that the minimum wage is increasing. But also in the case of civil servants, five years since they've been ruling, a single orphan penny hasn't changed the salary level. I'm just saying that you know that if you don't know, then you know that if you do, you should be able to strengthen yourself: 38 650 forints unchanged. And I also want you to know that, as an example, the NAV knows, this is the National Tax and Customs Office - for 2013, with its statements, it confirms that in Hungary, of the roughly 4.3 million people who make tax returns, 2.2 million, so more than half of them are made up of people who do not earn the minimum amount of money. You don't earn money worth the minimum of living! I hope you also know that the top 10 percent of income earners take 36 percent of income, the bottom 10 percent of income earners don't earn 2 percent. I hope you also know that more than 50 percent of those who earn income do not earn 19 percent of the total income. And these are the people who usually do the work that is matched by Sunday's wage allowance, the question of Sunday's allowance should not be a question, not segmented somewhere or someone else, but globally concerning everyone who does work on Sunday. So, my fellow Member, I would like to point out to you that if you come up with a bill with such a brief compactity, you will globalise it in a good sense, then every Hungarian worker who is forced to work on Sunday will be required to pay a 100% wage supplement. And then, I think that they are doing a consistent, a type of behaviour that may be accompanied by benefits for Hungarian workers. I would like to point out that we have tabled such an amendment together with my fellow Members. If it doesn't suit you for any reason, there's nothing wrong with us if you consider it to be your own, by using a different word, by adding a letter, or by taking a letter, or by taking it away from it, and you intend to bring it to life, so you want it to be done. There is no problem with it, it is not our name to be bound to the adoption of the amending proposal, but the point is that everything that has to be done will finally happen in a consistent manner. And if there is a need to sum it up and sum up somewhere, I would like to say that my fellow Member should always bear in mind how many tens of thousands of families he has taken the bread with this measure, which comes to life in connection with Sunday's closure; how many tens of thousands of children suffer all the consequences of which are that the parent is unable to earn income or obtain a reduced income, or that he is the one whose employment is terminated as a result of these measures. And then I guess, in another way, in another form, under different frameworks, they're going to make sure that naturally these people get and get jobs elsewhere and are able to do their job and live their lives in better income conditions. Not within the framework of public employment, not within the framework of public employment, such as Gyöngyfa, where, if I remember correctly, Mayor István Németh resigned because he could no longer identify with the public employment system that you have been operating for many years, because 36 people cannot have 300 meters of water ditch cleaned for six months, that is, that is, that is, it is not a value-creating public employment. [[19.10]] So, I would like to confirm that, if you really believe that you want to act in the interests of the workers, you should expand your thinking, extend your line of proposals, once again, to apply to everyone what you think about working on Sunday, and, in the case of everyone, to make it true and strengthen with your fellow politicians in the pro-government bench, and I promise you that we will support this thinking, we will be there in this vote. [[István Apáti intervenes.]] Yes, thank you very much. Yes, everyone who does work on a Sunday should receive a 100 percent wage bonus, not just the privileged ones and not just the ones you might think they are. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-02-16-254	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Ikotity, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2015-02-16-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, After the two-thirds vote in favour of the bill on the opening of shops on Sunday, KDNP has now proposed that anyone working on Sunday should receive more money. The bill, registered by representatives Kristóf Szatmáry and Péter Harrach, is nothing more than a 100 percent allowance for a worker who works on Sundays. The proposal would also set out that the worker should be obliged to work on Sundays at regular working hours at a maximum of two times a month. Of course, the LMP can and will support the increase in the Sunday bonus and the limitation of the number of working days due on Sunday, but we regard this as in itself insufficient in terms of the situation of workers, and we regard such a proposal as cynical by the Christian Democratic Party assisting so far to systematically break workers' rights. I'd like to start by talking about why I think it doesn't look good for KDNP, and it doesn't look good for the government. One of the most memorable steps of the second Orbán government that came into power in 2010 was the adoption of the code of exploitation. Orbán, in the midst of the crisis, when it would have been the responsibility of a responsible government to preserve jobs, increase the social security of workers and reduce their vulnerability, let go of the workers' hands. He has failed the workers and their families who are in fear and persistent insecurity at work, he has destroyed the social dialogue system, he has emptied the right to strike and he has broken individual and collective workers' rights. The Code of Ominous Work, against which LMP protested most loudly at the time, included, among other things, facilitations for Sunday work, which was obviously due to workers. The Code of Old Work stated, on the one hand, that one of the two days of rest for the employee per week should fall by Sunday. If someone did work on a Sunday, he was entitled to 100% pay or 50% if he got an extra day off. According to the rules introduced by the Fidesz-KDNP government, only once a month is required to ensure that the rest day falls by Sunday. And the wage replacement rule was softened by the fact that in the case of Sunday work, only 50% of the wage is paid. The government therefore explicitly encouraged work on Sunday through the new labour law rules, by reducing the employer's burden associated with it. In general, the impact of the new Labour Code has been an increase in the working hours of workers, while their salary has been reduced for the same work. The government has openly stated that the aim is to adapt legislation to practice and to reduce employers' obligations at the expense of workers. Working time has been artificially increased by the new rule that inter-work breaks are no longer part of working hours. In practice, this means that for an 8-hour job, you have to work an extra 11 days a year. There are a number of cases where workers also took advantage of this opportunity and worked out the 20-minute breaks on Saturday. In addition to the increase in working time, salaries have also decreased. It has reduced the nominal wage of certain groups of workers due to shift replacement changes, the abolition of the afternoon shift allowance. However, wages could also be reduced due to unpaid overtime, one of the reasons being the unilateral introduction of a working time frame or an increase in the annual working time base. The Labour Code has left employers with a number of legislative options, a loophole, to pay less for the same job through a change in working time schedule and a change in working order. If, in this economic situation, the employer wants to reduce his expenditure, he will find a variety of ways of reducing expenditure within the framework of the legislation. And if this puts workers in a worse position, this is clearly due to this government. The KDNP MEPs' proposal is also cynical, as they were the intellectual authors of Sunday's closure. Paradoxically, the KDNP and the government supporting them want to give the higher allowance to Sunday workers while prohibiting Sunday work except five times a year. The 100 percent Sunday allowance could have made sense as an alternative to Sunday's closure. If the government really had the interests of the workers in mind, it could have limited Sunday work to what would have been good for the workers. The doubling of wage allowances and the binding of Sunday work to a voluntary declaration have been raised by several trade unions, but this has been swept down by the government without any real consideration, even though it could have been a sensible point in a debate about improving the situation of trade workers. The increase in wage allowances is now a thin consolation for those whose income is reduced due to Sunday's closed hours. To compensate for the loss, the increased wage allowance is completely inadequate, as it is only due to them a few times in the year. And to those who lose or lose their jobs because of Sunday's closed hours, not only the higher wage allowance is a consolation. No one is now arguing, and the Ministry of National Economy has also admitted that the closure will involve dismissals, and the debate is only at the same level. It can also be observed that commercial companies are announcing their mass redundancies on the grounds of Sunday's closure. Regardless of the real reason behind the dismissals, Sunday's closure has become a reference, which has led companies to make their decisions to cut down, and even the reason for not raising wages is the reference to Sunday's closed hours, which clearly shows that Sunday's closure is causing people a lot of harm before it is introduced. The proposal submitted by KDNP representatives will therefore be supported by the LMP, but in itself we consider this step to be a beauty patch, which is little for workers. Steps that can substantially improve the situation of workers should be taken, which will keep the government rigidly shut down. I'd like to summarize this in a few points, to be exact, five points. The most important thing would be wage setting, which can't be put off any longer. The average salary in trade is around HUF 120 000 gross, which is very low, it cannot be lived, but the government insists on a single-key tax that adversely affects low-income earners, even though it would only be possible to achieve a significant net wage increase by reducing the burden on low-income earners. The government and employees do not want to hear about the long-term catch-up, which was also shown in the wage negotiations last year, and the 3-4 percent wage recommendation for 2015 and the 3.4 percent minimum wage increase represent a virtually undetectable increase in wages for workers. At present, the minimum wage does not even reach 80% of the minimum wage, and there is no chance for the employee to make a decent living from five days a week's work. If this continues, workers' poverty will continue to grow. In the second point, we propose finding new, functional forms of social dialogue, creating a new system of reconciliation of interests. [[19.20]] In addition, a legislative pace is needed to allow time to prepare a step, to consult with the actors of the world of work. As long as there is no social dialogue, the government does not consider employees and employers as partners. Until then, there is no point in empty gestures such as this proposal. As a third point, the Labour Code should be reviewed with the involvement of the social partners. In this regard, the government made a promise at the end of last year in the agreement with trade unions, but negotiations have not started until today. Fourth, workers must be given back the right to strike. It is necessary to create a strike law that does not vacate the right to strike, as it did in 2011 the amendment of the strike law through an individual representative's motion. The law currently imposes unfulfilled conditions on the right to strike. Since the amendment, it is only in the possession of an agreement on the extent of sufficient service that a strike may take place with the public service providers, and in the absence of such an amendment, only after the decision of the labour court which has decided on it can be taken to terminate work. In most cases, the court rejects applications, so workers have no legal right to strike. And fifth, last, we also need to strengthen labour inspections. While the number of labour infringements is increasing year after year, the number of employers subject to controls is decreasing, the number of labour inspectors is decreasing. According to the Labor Office's latest report, according to the experience of the audit carried out in the first three quarters of 2014, 69 percent of employers and 70 percent of employees experienced labour infringements. A year ago, these indicators stood at 67 percent. So the numbers are brutal, and there is a lack of real political will to eliminate labour violations. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-02-16-256	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I now give the floor to the first independent Member to speak in a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju. You have the floor.
u2015-02-16-257	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, We are in a rather strange situation, since we must say that Sunday's allowance must be accompanied by Sunday's opening hours. That's the position of the Democratic Coalition. After all, you have brought here an unprepared piece of legislation, fellow Members, which, I think, will bring you much more trouble. Today, at the meeting of the Economic Committee, it was his colleague who asked for patience not to start this debate, because you have not yet carried out the consultation with the professional organisations that would be necessary. So you don't know exactly the consequences, and you have to take the ode for yourself. Today, the Parliament has put this on the agenda, and if this law is passed, it will be entitled to a 100 percent wage supplement every Sunday's employee. So, once again, if I understand it correctly, every Sunday employee is entitled to a 100 percent wage supplement. This is in vain, however, because the government is taking the job away from thousands of people. To mention only one decorated group to you, they're taking the job away from young people who are supposed to be collecting tuition fees that you don't have, and they're covering their studies. So your government doesn't make any laws on Sunday's wage allowances while prohibiting Sunday's work. In this form, it is like raising a pension while raising the possibility of retirement to 150 years. Overall, I have to say to you that its effects - and I am still thinking of the original effect on closing shops - have been explicitly launched, especially for people outside of large cities or shopping centres, or for families, to buy expensive movements, because they cannot do so during the week, because they are not available to travel in, but you have prevented them from having the opportunity to do so in your earlier decision. Therefore, with all the disastrous consequences of Sunday's shutdown, and at the same time, it is felt that many people say that this has been enough. No wonder there have been over 85,000 people in the petition and signature collection initiated by the Democratic Coalition, who have said in the last three weeks that you have made the wrong decision, rejecting what you have decided and, instead, demanding a new one. And it is clear that you too feel this disadvantage, because, as a result, beyond the advantages included in the law, cinema, catering facilities and beaches, the bay port operated by the gardeners, bakeries, catering facilities and even the Prime Minister's son-in-law will now have the opportunity to open on weekends. Well, congratulations on that. Overall, I think that, where there are so many exceptions to the rule, this rule is unfair and pointless, and that is why you must withdraw it. From an international point of view, what is happening in Hungary is quite strange, because there are very opposite processes where consumption is to be increased in order to boost the economy, and whether we look at France or Austria, the opposite is happening there. Therefore, I am now once again taking the initiative on behalf of the Democratic Coalition - reminding the government that in the three weeks it was more than 85,000 people who faced this earlier decision - yes, I think that this should be withdrawn. So we are initiating this, and the government could do that to take this into account. And if you don't, and you're curious about people's opinions, then don't prevent the possibility of holding a referendum. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-02-16-258	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are now two-minute speeches. I would like to inform my fellow Members that, according to the rules of the House, one Member per faction has the opportunity to speak for two minutes in a given round of speakers. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2015-02-16-259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In my opinion, the Members who submitted this bill cannot be accused of being thoughtful, because, if you look at the history, it is obvious that when this wave of closure started, interestingly, the national tobacco shops were not covered, let us say, by gardening. In time, they may realize that this should be changed, and perhaps they should let your gardener open on Sunday, because people, according to customary law, usually like to look at the flowers that they buy and plant, and many other things that I can add to this. But what I would really like to say is that my fellow Member is close enough that it might be worth drawing attention to, for example, within the framework of the CBA chain, where, to my knowledge, income relations are among the smallest in trade, that it would be worth raising incomes there a little bit to make people's lives easier. If you are talking about this at the faction meeting, then in terms of actions, where they have an impact on this, you should do all of these, because it can also authenticate the matter. Although true credibility would have been given if it had been done before, and not on request or upon request. And if I can and must propose, then I would like to suggest to my fellow Member, Mr Harrach, that it might also be worth putting in the line of proposals to create income relations in the country where the minimum wage reaches at least the minimum amount of living, and then you are entitled to talk about the fact that they have done something for people who live their daily lives in the midst of a miserable fate. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[19.30]]
u2015-02-16-260	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The further speeches will now take place. I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, MSZP Group, in a normal time frame.
u2015-02-16-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I don't understand why they didn't just submit the bonus increase on their own, and how a story like this came up that you voted for at the end of last year to close the shops on Sunday. I mean, that's what's incredibly deeply interfering with people's lives. I do not think that anyone, for any political purpose, has the right to intervene in people's lives at this level. By the way, I'd like to add that the government is doing this incredibly brazen, hypocritically, by ignoring everyday life. I can see that this weekend is being very carefully watched. It is also a fact that the usual legislative rush, which is typical of you, has happened now, because now you are trying to free some areas quickly, and you are still trying to calm the moods by making a bonus increase, which in itself would be very eligible. The circumstance, as it happens, and what was introduced, is tragedy. So what we can see here is that an unmeasurable party sold their soul and sold their faith to Fidesz and sold it on the altar of party politics. He's a hypocrite. They now prescribe what can't be done on Sunday. I ask you, by the way, the next step is what is allowed to be done on Sundays. I'm sure they'd have some ideas for that. If they knew a little bit about reality, they would know that people are not at home with their families because they have to work on Sundays, and that one day is so decorated, but because they have to work hard and on many shifts every day of the week, and there are still a lot of people living in poverty in Hungary. We're about to actually talk about half the population. And by the way, I have mentioned that they are extremely hypocritical, because it should be the KDNP that should work with all its might, with all its might, to eradicate poverty; and to convince the greater party of government that the direction it is following is completely wrong. Not only would they help people, but they're making things worse. So I don't know if they still have faith, but the only thing that's certain is that they have to deal with their constituents and their own consciences. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-02-16-262	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mr Sebestyén Vágó, Mr Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-02-16-263	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to share a few thoughts on this proposal. Well, we can see that this is, in fact, a pretense measure; if you take into account the fact that a law has not yet entered into force, it has to be amended; if you consider that the exceptions have introduced loopholes that we know very well that they want to favour their own kissing business owners. Or even if we consider that the various multinational supermarket chains, retail chains, even though the law has not yet entered into force, we already see how and how they can play it out; if we take into account the thinking of one of the large chain of stores in the franchise system, to circumvent the opening hours of family businesses in a franchise system, and here, as a family will perform this activity, it can be open without any restrictions... Or, if we're concerned about pretense measures, if we look at this law that Parliament is negotiating, the restriction of the original law will allow these chains of stores to be open five days a year. This applies to the advent period, then clearly different shopping habits. The Advent period, if we look at the last year, started at the end of November, but usually the calendar only affects December, so, in fact, an employee working in a retail chain is entitled to this allowance two times a year, up to three times a year. This is nothing, take it well. You can say big things that we will benefit the workers in this sector, but considering how much they earn, that means nothing. We know very well that the average salary for employees in this sector is HUF 118 thousand per month gross, which is HUF 70-80 thousand net. If we calculate how much these 2-3 days a year make on their annual salary, we can say almost nothing. And if we consider that, and now I would take out such a chain of stores, a multinational chain of stores, the Tesco chain of stores, which is a company based in England, in England, the people working there grossly make up four times the number of people working in Hungary. If we consider how much more favourable the tax and tax laws are in England, then we can say that in the same job, an English employee takes home five times a month in the Tesco store in London than he does at the Tesco store in Budapest or Tatabánya. Perhaps we should put a great deal of emphasis on whether the government's lobbying force is used, or the two-thirds majority's legislative opportunity should be used to ensure that workers working in Hungary, not only in retail, but also in multinational companies in Hungary, cannot earn as much shameless as their colleagues working in the mother country, who do the same job. That's what's outrageous, especially considering that there's no difference in prices. In fact, in prices, we beat Westerners with certain products, not in a positive, but in a negative sense. So much less money will have to live under much more expensive conditions than a retail salesman. This is what needs to be changed, and I will say it again, not only in the retail sector, but in every single worker working in a multinational company in Hungary. This must create the legal conditions. And believe me, these multinational companies should also stay here in Hungary under such conditions. This is what I ask for, that the majority of them in Parliament and the lobbying force of the government be used for such purposes rather than for such measures as these and similar. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-16-264	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mrs Anita Heringes, MSZP Group.
u2015-02-16-265	Thank you very much for the floor. It's one of the rare cases when the government kicks all sides at once. One day, he's gonna kick the people who took away the choice and the freedom to go out on Sundays if they want to go shopping. It is possible to take away the opportunity from those in the store who, if they want to work for 100 percent on Sunday, can do it. It's true that they can't do that at their buddy companies, because they don't give you allowances there, yet those who want to work had the opportunity to get more wages for that job. You know, I was out yesterday, and I asked people in front of one of the shops about what they thought about this. On the right, on the left, was of the opinion that the opportunity, the freedom of choice, was being taken away from them again, that you would try to decide what to do on Sunday. It's not that you can't go shopping on Sundays, it's that you're taking away the opportunity. You can't make this country look like your worldview. It's a democracy, a lot of people live in it. Before you ask people what they think about it, not just kicking the table, and then sitting down two congressmen, I suppose, on Sunday afternoon, with a cookie and coffee at one of the confectioners, they'll talk about where we broke this law and what else needs to be changed. We'll tell you where it went wrong. The old labor code should be returned, and by the way, the 100 percent bonus should be given to people. And then everything would be fine. Perhaps Kristóf Szatmáry and Mr Harrach will have another Sunday to submit this in a motion from their representatives. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-02-16-266	Thank you. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP Group. [[19.40]]
u2015-02-16-267	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm glad that Mr. Péter Harrach still remembers the cursed times you guys are scolding today, and he remembers what was in this country, say, on Monday, people weren't allowed to watch television, children had to go to school on Saturday. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: You remember this much better, you did it!]] And people couldn't get access to different products. The way I see it, what you're blabbering about this system, I'd like to take it back gradually. I would like to highlight what Congresswoman Márta Demeter said: they have a cherished dream that they have wanted to beat through the Fidesz for years, which has now succeeded, and she has basically beaten through a vast party that is not even able to measure in Hungary today, this is KDNP. If it weren't for the Fidesz, you wouldn't exist. You have to tell me here that I know that you will say in rejoinder that we are multi-party, that we will protect the multinationals. [[István Szávay: Stop platitudes!]] and that Tesco and Baumax are not leaving Hungary because you have taken various measures in the last five years, you know, Congressman, it would have been nice if you had been in Bishop's Lady and Hajdúböszörmény in the last few weeks, or were there, say, in Debrecen in the Baumax area when these stores were closed. You know, there were people working there, people like you. True, it doesn't matter to you, because you said, Congressman, hunger is a way of life, a choice. [[Péter Harrach: Lies! Shame on you.]] He just knows. [[Noise.]] You just know that these people can't choose because you're taking away the choice from these people. You know, it would be nice if they were there to listen to these people, how they live. I went and talked to them several times about what they had been through in those days and what they would do next. These people will not have the opportunity to go to work because they have been taken away from them. And let me tell you, it's so weird when you guys make such modifications that you make exceptions to construction companies, to your gardeners, and we didn't mention the small businesses or small shops that belong to the port here right when your prime minister's son-in-law, let's say, got access to a port in December, before Christmas, on the 23rd. [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: What do you get?]] To a port! [[Dr. Répássy, Robert: So?]] It's kind of sad if you ask me back. [[András Tállai: What you're doing is below the level! Don't you see? What's Sunday got to do with it? Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] About closing on Sunday: don't be angry, stop interfering in the privacy of Hungarian families, and stop telling them how to spend it or how to behave! There are no stupid people living in this country. I would like to say one more thing: you constantly refer to the fact that you are protecting Hungarian small entrepreneurs. Do you know that one of the biggest exploiters on site is the convenience store owners at home? Employees are scheduled for four hours, and they work 10-12 hours a day. Yeah, now they're saying that at Sunday lockdown, only family members can work, and that's how they're open. You know, the law that can be avoided, they always find a way around it. They'll always find a way. What my fellow Member, Nándor Gúr, has said is wrong that only in trade do they want to introduce the 100% wage supplement. Bring him in to all the people who work on Sundays. Yeah, let's introduce them to all the employees, give them the same rights as the others. Or will something happen and they'll find out? You know, the worst part is that the referendum is not allowed in this country. They always find a way out so people don't get their opinions. Why don't they dare go out there and say they don't agree with that? Because you know the answer very well! You know the answer to that. I really hope that there won't be another time when they really want to tell people what to do on Monday, what to do on Tuesday, what to do on Saturday, and what to do on Sunday. Yes, I know, Congressmen, it's a terrible thing to hear, it's a terrible thing to listen to the truth and the truth, and they'd only go out there once and listen to what's wrong with them. That's what I'd like you to do. One thing I would like to tell you: believe me, it doesn't matter that I buy a litre of milk for 199 HUF or 300 HUF, and don't force tens of thousands of people, families, hundreds of thousands of thousands of people to deny them the option to choose. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-268	There will be a speech from Mr Csaba Gyure, from the Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2015-02-16-269	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join my fellow Member, Mr Sebestyén, in his speech, and to think about it a little further. He has already talked about the fact that these multinational supermarket chains that are coming into Hungary are present in virtually every EU country, and in these countries where they are present, in order to expand, operate, they obviously need the land, the overshadowing, the equipment, the labour force, the raw materials and the rest. If we look at these spending aspects, what are we going to see? We will see that these multinational stores are very worth coming to Hungary, because everything is much cheaper than the EU average, and if we are here at the labour force, it is almost the cheapest, because Hungary is the lowest in almost all areas in the European Union, the price of labour in Hungary, and that is quite a big problem. So you get everything a lot cheaper. And what do we see? The products that are available in these supermarket chains are all the same in all stores in Hungary, but if we go to any country, from Greece to Denmark, we will find almost the same products, even the same packaging, the only thing that will be the same will be the inscription or the inscription very much, because, as we can see, these products are subtitled in 20 languages with micro-letters, which we often cannot read, at least whose eyes are not perfect. And what do we see? Those who often go to other countries and buy the same products there see that these products are nothing more expensive or even cheaper in many cases than they are in Hungary. Then what's the consequence of this? When it's cheaper to maintain, it's cheaper to work, it's cheaper to build, it's more expensive to have goods. Who's winning? It's a win-win for multinational companies. It was the Movement for Jobbik Hungary that has already raised it, and in its programme it has also stated that it wants to insist on it and that this is what it wants to do, that in Hungary, multinational trading companies that are present should set a minimum wage for those working there. This minimum wage would not be the current Hungarian minimum wage, but in order to bring the wages in Hungary closer to the average price of the European Union, this could be done as a first step, since we can see from the amount that there is to be taken away, there is to pay the employees, and we have also seen that certain multinational companies pay the workers, the wages. It also shows that there is something to touch, and that is why Jobbik Movement has proposed that the EU average, average salary, which is in a chain of stores, should not be less than 80% of that for a Hungarian citizen working there. We have just heard from my fellow Member, Mr Sebestyén Vágó, who analysed the fact that, for example, in England, there is a salary of five times as high as in a multinational trading chain, and if about 80 per cent is the EU average, it would amount to around 80 per cent of that, i.e. 64 per cent of the payments in England. In Hungary, payment is made for a certain chain of stores. This alone would mean that they could receive 2.5-3 times the salary compared to today's level, and that the catch-up process would start slowly in Hungary, which could lead to a significant increase in wages in Hungary as well. After all, we can see that in some countries, which were more economically underdeveloped by Hungary, the salaries are already higher there. More than once we have talked about sectoral issues here, and we see that in some sectors the lowest wage is paid in Hungary in the European Union. I would also like to raise what the socialists didn't talk about very much, they are very sorry about the workers on the street who are supposed to be on the street by eliminating the opening hours on Sunday; in many cases we also see the problem, and we have suggested that we work in these chains of stores and in many other places borrowed workers, who are in fact of no importance, so they cannot fight for their own wages, because they are not in a relationship with the store chain, but with the agency company that will send them there. [[19.50]] I have one more question, which may be a rhetorical question in this case: the Fidesz-KDNP mentioned by a two-thirds majority that it organises national consultations on issues that move society, make society opposer to the right or to the left, or say that we do want to do so. Perhaps this is a question that might have been most useful or would have been very useful to hold a national consultation. Perhaps this would have resulted, and then perhaps two thirds could have taken a position on this issue, and it would have made it easier for all of us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-16-270	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, independent.
u2015-02-16-271	Thank you very much. My fellow Member is honoured to say that the national consultation is called a referendum, and in this case it would have been a matter for the government to support it rather than hindering it by all means possible to do so. The Democratic Coalition has asked a clear and clear question, and it is worth supporting everyone who thinks that it is forbidden to interfere in people's daily lives unless the government thinks otherwise. However, in order not to repeat what has been said in addition to the multiplication of further arguments, the Members, who, as an individual author, have been paying attention to the workers in a given area, or who thought they were paying attention to them, so have come up with an amendment of the law, and I would like to show you with respect that they would still have to do so, even by drawing the attention of the government, that, while this rule or law was adopted at the end of last year and put into effect with effect on 15 March - although I trust that they will still have a serious change - I think, 15 days before 15 days - on the basis of the draft that you have sent out, opening permits should be requested, i.e. a few days in total, for the entrepreneur who wants to be open on the first Sunday of March 15 March. Therefore, the regulation, which they are doing, is very close to what happened either in the field of vocational training or in the introduction of the toll system, that on 30 December the regulation with which you were able to buy or put into effect on 31 December has been issued. They're doing the same irresponsible thing here. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-02-16-272	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr Péter Harrach as rapporteur, after which there will be further speeches. You have the floor.
u2015-02-16-273	Mr President, Dear House, It is not easy to comment on the presentation, based on what has been said, because perhaps there were three sentences about it. I welcome these as benevolent comments, as one party's representative said that he would vote; another party's representative, who spoke about this, said that it was a very good thing, that it should only be extended. The other comments were not about the presentation. I suggest we deal with the few sentences we brought here today in this late hour. I do not want to respond to demagogic and distasteful comments, which are the way they are; I have been sitting in Parliament for quite some time, but I have never heard them before. But I'd be happy to comment on the merits of the trial. So I look forward to your comments on the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-02-16-274	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Congressman Nándor Gúr applied for a two-minute speech, MSZP, please.
u2015-02-16-275	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am sure that my fellow Member, Peter Harrach, knows the Ten Commandments better than I do, the eighth commandment of his: do not lie, do not harm the honor of others. If I remember correctly, that's what it says. The essence of the matter, for which I said this, was simply the outburst that came out of my fellow Member Harrach when Ildikó Bangóné Borbély quoted a story. It was a pity, my fellow Member, because it is also possible to quote literally the host question which, based on research, tells us why and how children go to school hungry in the morning, perhaps not because parents cannot pack food or similar barriers, there are limits in this regard. You'll end up not hungry, won't you? That's the closing thought of the host. And you had the answer to that: I think it's a way of life. Isn't that right? [[Péter Harrach: No!]] But it's true, look, I looked at it before I spoke, specifically what was said in that interview as a question and in your answer. So, this is not what I want to do, this is not what I want to put in the middle of a target, but I just want to say that I agree with you that we should talk about the draft law that we are talking about, only if there are legitimate points, not on your part a ripus that is not correct; or on the part of your secretary of state, when it is well-founded, whether it is a port or anything else, then the answer should not be that "and"? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. It's not the "so"? It's your job to answer the question. It's more different. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-02-16-276	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will now continue with the comments. I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group.
u2015-02-16-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First, I would like to talk about the appearance that you paint for us. I've been through this. I lived as a deputy mayor in a town with a lot of small businesses and big multinational chains. Obviously, there was also an insult: small businesses were concerned about their own interests, large businesses brought their own services, and of course they had to be told and understood that we look at the interests of many small businesses, but we are very happy to look at the interests of the entire population of the city, and for them the cheaper and higher service is good. And it's for their own good. And if I'm still stuck with the same look that you're trying to paint for us, the way it looks is that you're a little bit interested in who's working on Sundays and Mondays. That's not what this is about. But if I stay here, I still have to say the criticism that you are likely to be so disoriented from reality that you do not know what is happening in Hungarian SMEs, you do not know what is happening in smaller shops, smaller shops, smaller companies. They do not know when to work in a Hungarian SME. I'd be happy to tell you. Do you know when to work in a Hungarian SME? When the boss says so! It doesn't matter whether it's Sunday night, it's Monday at dawn, it's Friday afternoon; when the boss says it's time to come in, on today's Hungarian labour market, minus, I don't know how many people can work, go in and work in trade. What you have at home, you let go, you go in and you work. This is the case in Hungarian SMEs. If you wanted to solve this so that people could have free time, if you wanted to solve it in multinational companies, which are otherwise retailing, the working conditions of the people working there, spending their free time, more predictablely, I don't know how to do it, then you wouldn't have done that. That's what I'm going to say when I think about how it looks. This is a colorful picture painted before us to argue about it, although behind this there is nothing but a simple, self-serving, voluntarist law, of which you have calculated precisely its risks, its consequences. You know perfectly well that's wrong. They know that telling people that certain professions cannot work on Sundays does not make it any better for people, for the company, for the Hungarian society, for anyone in the world. [[20.00]] You know exactly how it's gonna be bad for some groups of companies, and they've assigned exactly who's gonna be better. It will be better for the new Hungarian chain of business and the old Hungarian chain of business, calling it the CBA, and it will be better for those who can quickly switch to the system that you have set up for us. I say this because I think you should ask yourself the first question in every legislative task that every lawyer has to ask. In our profession, the first question is, for whose sake, cui prodest. Here, you can pinpoint exactly who's doing this: it's in the interest of one, two chains at most. You don't care who works on Sundays or who doesn't work on Sundays or what you should do. If you really want to solve the problem that these workers face every day, that they don't pay the overtime, that if you get them out of here, they don't pay their travel expenses, and they don't pay their wages; you should be happy to make a living and be happy to keep your job - let alone get extras. If that's what you want to solve, that's what you're trying to solve. They're not trying to wrinkle the interest representatives on some level. Or vocational training. Let's say we see what we see every day in these stores. Sometimes the intern probably shouldn't be on the night shift, 'cause he can't. But that's not what you want. That's not what they're trying to stop! They don't touch the device they need. It's just the robe. It is very important that when these chains arrived, retailers understood that the larger ones do not need to be fought. Their lives will be more predictable, they managed to solve it, and I think they were good professionals. The world has turned around since then, and you haven't followed it. They did not follow what tasks Hungarian workers have, what duties they have, which are changing from day to day. Because you let me do that. According to the Labour Code, what the boss says, what the owner says, it's basically what you do. You should protect these interests, not the interests of one or two Hungarian or Hungarian chains! It should not be priced for what will be on the side of failure, what will become of this, since we are talking about trade, whether we can bear it and whether we can put one or two chains in position. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] This type of voluntarian legislation is a continuous characteristic of this cycle, and the previous cycle, of course, and of course, it comes out of the mind of one or two people. Why don't you arrange a meeting? Why don't you ask the cast? Why do you only ask the characters who know what answers they will give? Because power doesn't agree; this is the system of national cooperation, isn't it? Power doesn't ask back, power doesn't agree, power tells us what's gonna happen. Just do what you have to do to make sure you don't put it in this robe, like you're a little bit interested in who's working under what conditions. If you were interested, I'd have to solve the ones I've listed. The working conditions, the allowance, the livelihood, the wages, and the return of workers' rights in the Labour Code. Don't calculate the risk, rule the country. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-02-16-278	Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, in a normal time frame.
u2015-02-16-279	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I could ask you the rhetorical question of when, for once, man will matter to you. Because what we saw in 2012, when the labor code was rewritten, is that only man, but the employee, doesn't matter to you. I'm not saying that employers mattered a lot, but I'm worth so much to you that at least you've been allowed to do that and you've given them the chance to skin more people. Now, that's your labor code. That the employer can skin even more off the employee. The worker can suffer everything. I could say a thousand things, I could repeat László Szakács's speech, either in terms of working conditions or in terms of monitoring it, in terms of the findings, the shortcomings, the procedure against the findings and much more. I will not, because I do not want to go too far from this draft law, but I would like to say that the fact that everyone talks a little more about this story, no matter which representative is in the ranks of the party, this is based on the fact that in 2012 the Code of Work was, in an outrageous way, changed in such a way that people were put in an absurdly vulnerable position. You know, my fellow Member, the cynicism of you being lost a hundred times and giving back ten times - let us be generous with you - and this tenfold return is reported a thousand times. And they want people to believe that this is better for them. In Hungarian, very simplistically, in Profanian: they stupidize people. Instead of helping them get better working conditions, earning more wages, living their daily lives with greater security and many others and doing their work. So what they did in connection with the Labour Code... If I remember correctly, perhaps 708 amendments were tabled, of which more than 500 were submitted by the Hungarian Socialist Party, as well as amendments to trade unions and others. Interestingly, what we see today is that the footman's union, you know, knows the one that ran with you in arms, is saying the same thing that we said in 2012, and today we are saying that we are doing the things that we said at the time and that we have tabled as an amendment to the bill. So, what I want to get out of this is that there are thousands of torsos in what you have done to employees in terms of the labor code, the basic bible of the world of work. If it was a shame, then what they're doing now is a disgrace, according to my judgment. I'll tell you one more time why. Because if you've been married a hundred times and you've been given back ten times and you want to tell me a thousand times, you should at least do something with tangible results for people working every Sunday. For people working every Sunday! Who does not have a choice, who is not banned from work, as they have now done to many, tens of thousands, but who simply has to perform such an activity as a result of coercion with regard to the provision of the service. If you have a Christian spirit, as the logo and designation of your party bear it, then I ask with great respect my fellow Member, Mr Harrach, that you take this idea, and that every person working on Sunday should be important to you. It's not just a fraction. Don't tell me you don't want to make a political profit by firing tens of thousands first, and then a few people, hundreds, thousands, maybe a Sunday allowance. No! For all people working on Sundays, yes, let's make it a 100 percent Sunday bonus. I will say this several times, if necessary, ten, a hundred and a thousand times, within the walls of this Parliament and beyond, so that you can feel the responsibility that if you really believe that Sunday is a holy day of the week, that you have to live it with honor, possibly with your family, with love, with many others, then the person who cannot do this will receive the 100 percent Sunday allowance without exception. As long as you will not stand at the beginning of this draft law as your author, I will talk about this perfidious conduct, because only part of it wishes to provide benefits to this effect on a partial basis. [[20.10]] No! If you are a true Christian, according to my judgment, you must not say what I am saying here in Parliament, but do much more from this. Much more, not what was presented in this bill. I don't want to go into repetitions, I'm not going to start over what they've done in the last five years, but if it's a job, I have to mention that unfortunately, you're not giving more, but fewer people jobs to produce tax forints and work in the economy. You've been doing a community service society for the last five years. A society that would be okay if it were accompanied by the strengthening of the community of public works, so to speak, if it were to create useful value and give people their self-esteem. If it weren't to confront people, say, the one who does the work next to the tape, the one who does the community service; because the man who works next to the tape sees it, he thinks that the man doing the community service is doing a worthless job. No, that's not true. "There are many who create value, and there are many," I said, in the example of Pearlwood and other cases, "where, however, there is and can be seen that you are no longer careful to add value to the puzzle, and the point is that the statistics show well. Again, this is not a Christian attitude, that I am just trying to impress the people with statistics so that I can show and tell you how good it is for you, while in fact, the real life situation is not this. And that's not this. You know that. You can't argue with that either. And if that is the case, then I think that it should be done precisely so that it can be different, so that it can be better for people. To have real jobs, to be appreciated, to restore self-esteem, so that their income position wouldn't be worse than it was five years ago. So that the scissors do not open between the top ten percent and, let's say, the ten percent in the lowest income band; do not open, but close. You know, this Christian attitude, according to my judgment, is that I strive for the poor, the stage of misery, to be better tomorrow than it is today, and not worse, and not further away from those who live their lives in an acceptable way. I think that, very simply translated, that it should be broader, not just thinking about such sub-areas, let us say, such legislative amendments are countersigned by a former Minister for Labour. I believe that a former Minister of Labour, with a calm spirit, can be expected, especially and because of the Christian spirit, to be more charitable in terms of the poorer part of society, and to create what he gives there on other surfaces, and to find that it can be financed. And I'd like to say two more thoughts. I've often heard that it's a work-based society. You know, I'm not against work. In fact, I think that work is very important. The person who works is likely to gain more self-esteem, as I just said. But we need a society with a job that makes people a living, you know? So that when someone's at work, they don't have to be without it. And today, unfortunately, we live in the world that a very, very large part of the people who work are without it. It can't do that to safely fund his own and his children's daily lives. In such a situation, if you face a small sum of 50, 60, 100 thousand forints, it is over. Then he'll go bankrupt. Then you don't know what to do, because you simply can't raise savings from the income that, Sunday allowance or no Sunday allowance, would give you the opportunity to do so. Because these five years, you took me from these people and you didn't give me to them. Because in these five years, these people have had less money than they have in the past. Therefore, they do not have the minimum that would mean the safety of their livelihoods. And, you know, multi- or non-multi-annual, it's affordable, affordable goods or expensive goods that can be obtained with the right money. The vast majority of people live their lives like this. He lives his life with something worth 150 forints or 300 forints to catch up with. And if there is a product that can be reached for 150 forints within a given range of products, within the framework of a particular store, then the person doesn't care whether it's called Tesco, his name is CBA, or his name is Union Coop, or whatever else he calls it. No. He's interested in being able to buy this product. It is not necessary to liquidate a certain surface and not to strengthen specific undertakings which, as a result of lobbying interests, provide products at a price of one-and-a-half times or double, where appropriate. For you, it probably won't be a problem or a problem for me, it won't ruin you and me, but for people who can't buy products above certain price levels, it will destroy them. So, going back to the fund, the question of Sunday's bonus, I would just like to say that if you really don't understand a referendum because you've run into a lot of barriers, then - here my fellow Member has already mentioned - at least one national consultation. Why not? My fellow Member, at least take the initiative. It's okay. Well, let's get to know the people's opinions. Well, they always say we want to see what we want to hear. If you want to see and hear it, you need to ask not on questions on which answers we know in advance, but on questions that really affect people's lives. A true Christian does so according to my judgment. He's focused on what's important for people. He's focused on that and he's asking his questions and he's shaping the processes accordingly. So I think that you, joined together with Kristóf Szatmáry, should aim in the direction of arms to create questions in this respect that are in the interests of the people and to know their true opinions from everything. And if you're finally wondering what people's opinions are about and what they're dealing with, then it wouldn't be too bad if they took it and did it sometimes. Unlike L. Simon László says that we did something and then correct it. When? Only when people are gathering on the street and making their point? No, that's not the time to do it. Before that, my fellow Member. On matters of racial importance, national consultation is usually done, or should be done, when we are ahead of the cases and not after them. Sunday allowance for everyone. Not just for someone - for everyone! If you have to do a job on Sunday, you'll get a 100 percent sunday allowance. Everyone without exception. Not a few, but all of us. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-02-16-280	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] If not, the general debate will be closed and I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman Péter Harrach.
u2015-02-16-281	Very briefly. What I have just said is that two or three sentences of comments have been received for this presentation, it remains true, because what has been said since then has been very much, but not a comment to the question. You know, in a group of friends, you can do that if you have any impertinent remarks, you can stand up and leave them. This cannot be done in Parliament. There, you have to listen to the lectures that contain untruths, impertinences, remarks that are not related to the subject. [[20.20]] I think I've fulfilled this task. Once again, I would like to emphasise that this is a proposal that means something to many people who are forced to work on Sundays in trade. And as has been said by others, this is a positive initiative that needs to be supported. That would have been the content of this debate. I am also willing to reflect on what was a half sentence from Nándor Gúr's 15-minute comment, repeated several times during the lecture on Christianity. I rarely refer to the Ten Commandments or the like, which Nándor Gúr does; do. That half sentence sounded like it might have to be extended. [[Nándor Gúr: Maybe...]] Not maybe, I'm sure. I believe that in this case, in the previous law on the prohibition of working on Sundays in trade, if this is extended to other areas, it is justified and necessary to introduce the same bonus in that area. I think there is no obstacle to this, and I hope that sooner or later the time will come when the original KDNP law, which was about the general introduction of the ban on Sunday work - because he remembers it, so it happened, and what we were told about three or four years ago that it was not relevant - is accepted. Sooner or later, the actuality of this comes, and we can introduce everyone who wants to be at home with the rest of the family on Sundays. You can't force anyone to work on Sundays. And obviously, if there is, because there are a lot of exceptions, if there is a need to work on Sunday, let's do this extra increase there. It's okay, and in that sense, we agree. Well, let me have two sentences here on the history. Indeed, there is a ban on working on Sundays in several European countries, including in trade. I think it is important to emphasise this because on the part of the MSZP this weekend it has been said that it is in decline everywhere, we are the only ones who want to be smart here. I do not want to list it, but there are many countries that introduce a much stricter solution than what we are now doing. And if I were to give you, say, 100 euros to please, this weekend in Vienna, that or that. [[Nándor Gúr: Make sure it's not false.]] Then you'd probably bring me back that 100 euros on Sunday. But if I gave you 3 thousand forints in April to spend it in Budapest, buy the same things and things, you wouldn't be able to return the 3 thousand forints because you could spend it. So our rules will be so that you don't have to work, but you can shop. [[Intercoms from the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik.]] Okay, so we understand what I'm trying to say, the Hungarian legislation will be much more liberal than it is in many other countries in Europe. Once again about the proposal, thank you for your support, I hope that everyone will vote for it, and this is not for us, but for Hungarian workers. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-02-16-282	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain legal acts until closure. The submission was made in T/3019. You can view it on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-02-16-283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government's priority is to increase confidence in the public sector. To this end, the amendments contained in the bill amending certain legal acts may be grouped into three main themes. The vast majority of the amendments are intended to clarify the issues raised in the case-law, as indicated by the Hungarian Government's staff. The other part is T/2329 on the amendment of certain administrative laws. The aim is to facilitate practical application in the context of integration, in conjunction with bill No 1. The third, most of the bill serves the good administration by clarifying the behavioural requirements governing the current public service providers. The starting point for legislative amendments, which constitute the most important part of the bill, is the fundamental requirement, both by citizens and by the government, for the State to enter into a legal relationship only with a person who has not been prosecuted in a way that could seriously call into question public confidence in that body, in a job. In addition to the establishment, the amendment also regulates current legal relationships. In this context, the draft is based on the expectation that cooperation is a fundamental requirement not only in labour law but also in the broadest public service relations, which is still part of the obligation to provide information on important issues relating to the legal relationship. We are convinced that this requirement can be clearly derived from the existing legislation, but it has proved necessary to provide a clear definition of this. Public administration is the face of the State and the public organisation must operate in such a way as to ensure the highest level of professional knowledge on the part of public service providers, while at the same time making their ethical conduct the basis of trust. By amending the law, it becomes clear that the administrative body, as an employer, must immediately be aware of criminal proceedings against its employees. The obligation to notify employees can already be derived from the current rules governing the service, but the amendment makes this obligation clear, and the legislator also places a sanction on non-compliance with the obligation. In this context, the amendment of the Law on Criminal Procedure includes amendments to the obligation to provide information in a normative manner in certain legal acts. The Public Prosecutor's Office and the investigating authority will be required to signify by amending the law, i.e. they will be responsible for making sure that the employer is the person of the employer and informs the public sector employer of the employee's liability as a suspect. The government expects this amendment of individual legal status laws to significantly improve public confidence in the state, the public administration. In conjunction with the bill amending certain laws on administrative matters, this bill aims to make the existing rules of the Public Service Officers Act more flexible in order to enable public administrations to perform their tasks more effectively and in a customer-centred manner and to adapt more quickly to the government's organisational decisions and objectives. In the context of this amendment to the bill amending certain laws on administrative matters, this amendment seeks to provide an effective solution to issues that need to be dealt with in connection with the integration of government agencies with regard to guarantees for government officials. Certain provisions of the Public Service Officers Act made it unduly difficult to carry out human resources management tasks in the event of the reorganisation of the public administration bodies, and it was therefore necessary to amend those provisions. [[20.30]] The Public Service Officers Act has not allowed the secondment between government offices so far. The bill aims to remedy this deficiency in the context of government integration, with a view to adapting more quickly to the government's organisational decisions. Press reports have raised the possibility of an increase in travel time by public transport between a new job and a place of residence in connection with the proposal. At the same time, I would like to stress that, following this amendment, the employer may unilaterally change the appointment only if the place of work changes only within the municipality and the time of work does not exceed three hours a day, in the case of a government official with children under the age of ten, the two hours. It is also necessary to emphasise that, in the case of young children, the law continues to contain more favourable rules and that the former guarantees remain unchanged. The appointment may be amended by the employer without the consent of the government official if there is no disproportionate harm to the government official, in particular in view of his or her health or family circumstances. The proposed amendment serves the interests of employers as well, making it more flexible to change work within the settlement, while maintaining adequate guarantees for government officials. I ask this House to accept the bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-16-284	Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I give the floor to Imre Vas, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-02-16-285	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say briefly about the bill before us. At the beginning of February, the Government presented the proposal that we are discussing, which aims at amending certain legal acts. The government's primary objective is to increase confidence in the public sector, with particular attention being paid to the integrity of its employees. With this amendment, it becomes clear that the administrative body, as an employer, should immediately be aware of criminal proceedings against its employees for a criminal offence to be prosecuted, if the employee has been informed of the probable suspicion. The obligation to notify employees can already be derived from the rules governing the current service. However, this amendment will clarify the content of this obligation and the legislator will attach a penalty to non-compliance. The amendment creates a clear legal environment for the obligation to provide information between the employer and the employee, thereby ensuring mutual trust. A further requirement is that the State may enter into a public relationship only with a person who is not prosecuted for a criminal offence which may in particular call into question the confidence in that body, the job. The amendment shall contain the necessary data management and transitional rules. The amendment qualifies it as insubordination if the member of the professional staff is in breach of his specific obligation to provide information. On the basis of the obligation, a member of a professional staff shall notify in writing to the employer the fact that he has been informed of the substantiated suspicions of a criminal offence to be prosecuted. The amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act allows the investigating authority to inform the suspect's employer of the initiation of criminal proceedings where the compulsory employer's measure is applicable. If necessary, the prosecutor or the investigating authority shall contact the tax authority in order to identify the person of the employer. According to the proposal, the employer will have the opportunity to initiate a new indignity procedure if the government official informs him that he has been prosecuted for a criminal offence to be prosecuted and that reasonable suspicion has been reported. Another objective of the bill is the 2011 CXCIX on public service officials. Making the existing rules of the Act more flexible in order to allow public administrations to adapt more quickly to the government's organisational decisions. It also aims to provide an effective solution to labour law issues that need to be dealt with in connection with the integration of government agencies, with guarantees for government officials. The reasons for the bill state that the amendments are also necessary because some provisions currently make it unduly difficult to carry out human resources management tasks in the event of the reorganisation of public administrations. The bill introduces the secondment between government offices as a new legal institution. It will be possible, in close connection with the partial and full integration of government offices and administrative bodies, to appoint a government official to carry out official duties on a specific issue on the basis of an agreement between government offices. With this new legal arrangement, it will be possible to examine a specific issue within a government office, in which context it may result in a significant acceleration of procedures. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to vote to support the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-02-16-286	The MSZP group indicated that two speakers wished to present the group's position within a total of 15 minutes' time frame. I give the floor first to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2015-02-16-287	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, When you hold such suggestions in your hand, specifically, when I, at least, thought of it as a sentence, in which I could sum up the essence of this, a quote: The ticket collector is responsible for the whole incident. You know, the witness said that when he appointed Comrade Pelikán as the leader of the indoor swimming pool, and instructed the ticket collector to let the others in even though comrade Bastya was swimming alone in the pool. Then, of course, Comrade Pelikán was not held accountable for this, but the ticket collector was interned afterwards. Well, ladies and gentlemen, when your corruption scandals raise the voice not only of the Hungarian press but also of the foreign press, they come with a proposal where the rules on civil servants and civil servants are tightened up as if they could otherwise be responsible for these corruption acts. Because this proposal reflects precisely this approach, something that needs to be brought here for you, about combating corruption, about clean public life, and bringing to us the proposal to curb the supposed corruption of civil servants and civil servants. Just, you know, fellow Members, if I look back on the corruption scandals of the past few days, perhaps apart from Ildikó Vida, whom I find difficult to classify for the classic civil servants or civil servants, none of the actors in any corruption scandal have come out of this circle. Two well-defined circles can be defined here. One is the one that includes elected officials, mayors, municipal representatives, perhaps parliamentary representatives or members of the government, these people have been charged with corruption quite often. Another of these interests is the private sphere, Simicska, Nyerges, Tiborc, to mention the new names. So, this circle was also charged with corruption. Somehow the layer between the two, the civil servant, the civil servant, is left out of this. And with this proposal, you want to confirm that they - or the ticket-taker - could be responsible for the whole incident. It is not so, my fellow Members, that you will not be able to deceive anyone; this proposal will certainly not distract attention from the corruption scandals that have started in the past. The other is what the government's perception of the relations between the state and its citizens is. Simply put, we are once again faced with a very bad paternalist approach. [[20.40]] You are not only trying to tell us what people should do on Sunday, but you are putting citizens in an increasingly vulnerable position against the state. At this point, civil servants and civil servants suffer from this disadvantage. A few more rules will be incorporated into the Hungarian legal system, where these people will be more vulnerable to the current power. Don't get me wrong, I don't want to hear the demagoguery that I advocate these people's crimes, it's not about that. The point is that as a substitute act, you give a very bad answer to a particular social phenomenon, and once again you beat the dust on the little people. That is what this proposal is about. However, it is only a matter of detail that you have submitted this proposal once again without being included in your spring 2015 legislative programme - and so long ago you have not been able to write this because we are now taking part in the first meeting - there is no sign of it, but Mr Secretary of State has not mentioned that this proposal has been made for any social consultation - if so, I would ask you to say so in the debate - and I do not see any indication that the draft has been agreed with the president of NAIH, although there are a number of data protection aspects of this proposal, but it is often said that this is just a foam on the cake. Then, if you look at the quality and not just the purpose of this proposal, honourable Members, it is quite difficult to explain that if the prosecution has an obligation to notify you otherwise, or if the investigating authority has a duty to notify you, if you are already prosecuting a public official or civil servant for an extended criminality, then why are we demanding the same thing from the person concerned? Of course, Ildikó Vida would have been nice to announce that he was the only one who was not prosecuted, unfortunately. On the other hand, why should the employer take additional steps to check this information independently, regardless of the two notifications? I don't see much point in that. This is once again the appearance of you wanting to do something, but then nothing will come of it, because the effectiveness of this proposal will be equal to zero. Ladies and gentlemen, On another proposal, I said that I would say that combating corruption is not primarily a question of the legislative environment, but a question of the government's will. If the government, the government at all, does not wish to take action against corruption, but based its operation on this, then there may be any legal ban that seeks to prevent corruption, the system will still be corrupt. This is, therefore, primarily a question of government will, and it is possible to achieve certain results by legislative means, but I think that there is no breakthrough. In other words, we should want to act not only against corruption, but instead of continuing government operations based on corruption, and then it would be worth presenting anti-corruption laws to the Hungarian Parliament. What also concerns the other provision of the legislation, honourable Members, is rather strange when it comes to amending the laws on criminal proceedings, according to which evidence may include facts relevant to the assessment of the need for action to prevent crime and initiate other proceedings in criminal proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, I would be pleased if Mr Secretary of State or even someone from Fidesz could shed light on how this should be understood, because, if you look at the aspects of norm, it is quite difficult to interpret, because crime is a technical term in criminology, but not in criminal proceedings and not in criminal material law. There is a criminal offence and, as appropriate, it is quite difficult to interpret how evidence could be carried out in relation to crimes that have not yet been committed. We're gonna go along with a process of proof that we don't have yet, which we might have someday? Absurd, honourable Members. What do you mean, Secretary of State? Because I, to tell you the truth, can't make sense of it. Or what is the need for a measure to initiate another procedure? In other words, if a person in criminal proceedings finds that tax evasion is suspected, but it is also a criminal offence or a possibility of tax evasion, will he investigate instead of the tax authority? Or how? [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: Disciplinary procedure.]] If disciplinary action, Mr. Secretary of State - thank you for at least helping me with that - then do you think that, for example, in relation to an act committed by a lawyer or by a doctor on the basis of disciplinary action, the investigating authority will investigate instead of doing so by the Bar Association or the Medical Chamber? It's just nonsense! And not to mention that the Constitutional Court of the State of Law at the time was 42/93. In its decision, Ab explained, first, in detail, how the prosecution process, which forms the framework for the enforcement of public criminal claims, is associated with the restriction of the fundamental constitutional rights of the individual, including his right to personal data protection. The Constitutional Court, which was still independent at the time, stressed that the implementation of such criminal proceedings requires increased guarantees to protect the rights of the parties involved in proceedings and to ensure the legality of the proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, The fact is, if the Constitutional Court insists on this practice, then I think you will figure it out, and you can see that this will be considered unconstitutional. Of course, today it is not certain that this will be the case at all, perhaps the government has agreed with today's Constitutional Court that it will certainly not be so, or that it has given him this instruction, hell knows not, but I can say that if we look at the practice of the Constitutional Court so far, it will not only be incomprehensible and stupid, but it will also be unconstitutional and unconstitutional. Next, my fellow Member, Nándor Gúr, will present our critical remarks. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-02-16-288	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2015-02-16-289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow Member, Gergely Bárándy, mentioned NAIH. So, to be clear and clear in front of everyone, we are talking about the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information. They do not know much in this respect either - to my knowledge - about the draft law, as my fellow Member missed the social conciliation process, or we were looking for and searching for the presence of the government in its legislative programme, well, we did not find this either, but I suppose you will be able to provide reasonable answers to that, Mr Secretary of State. But I have to say that everything that comes forward seems confusing and incomprehensible, because the civil servant law, I think, is 20. It is possible to respond to what is being said here. 2014. CHAPTER VII This was born on the 1st of October, which is basically about the fact that there is virtually no public employment relationship until the final end of criminal proceedings. In this sense, the answer to the problem is already there, in this law. What I am more excited about in this draft law is what was actually said in the introduction of the Secretary of State, the issue of secondment between government offices. It was noted that if the daily travel time within a given settlement does not exceed 3 hours, in the case of a 10-year-old child for 2 hours, that is fine. I think that in relation to a settlement - with the exception of Budapest - this time interval, not exceeding 3 hours a day, is sufficiently broad in this respect. Or the issue of disproportionate grievances, also mentioned by the Secretary of State, I would just like to ask you here who will decide what is a disproportionate injury. The category of objectivity and subjectivity is quite far apart. If something is objectively tangible, measurable, it is all right; if the Secretary of State will be able to make a subjective decision on what is a disproportionate offense, then I do not like it very much. In addition, as regards secondment, I do not like the fact that it is possible to extend the level of secondment to a period of 6 months in relation to practically one year. [[20.50]] There is some uncertainty in my question about the category of unfairness in relation to the termination of the relationship. You know, this institutional system was introduced back in the day, and now I see it as if they've been unsure about that. It would be okay if you could clarify, Mr. Secretary, what this story looks like. But what bothers me more is, in fact, legitimizing job accumulations involving Fidesz government officials. You know, the fact that undersecretaries of state may already be able to work for duplicated funds if they are given other mandates, but here the supervisory board members of public foundations founded by the State and many others are also involved in this expansion. I don't think that's really right. Or I could also put it as a question, and I would like to say that, in the case of persons holding a public office, the existence of a card certifying a public office affects or affects not only the person carrying out public law activities, but also the person to whom you want it to be given. How, how this story works, how do you think it's okay? There's already been a question today about the public-law card, and you answered with one sentence that Habony doesn't get one. Okay, okay, you can't, but you can. Is that how you get it? Yeah, yeah, yeah, Mr. Secretary, the way you just spread your little hand. Well, yes, you can. And if he can, is that okay? So, is this what the bill on civil servants, public sector workers, should be one of the most important issues? Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-290	Thank you. I now give the floor to Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-02-16-291	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In his speech, the Secretary of State expressed the purpose of this legislation. Of course, his most important task, as he said, is trust in the public sector, strengthening public confidence, strengthening public confidence. When do you need one of these? When people feel that there is a problem with public trust in Hungary, and there is a problem with the fact that they are civil servants, but let us go further, as has been said, who may be in charge of them, politicians and political leaders also have a responsibility on this issue. When we have heard of almost nothing in Hungary over the last 25 years, the majority of Parliament is constantly accused of corruption by the previous governments and corruption, when the implementation of these corruption processes takes place somewhere at the government level or below, we see that corruption is invading virtually everywhere. I think that the eradication of corruption in Hungary alone is clearly impossible, but the reduction of corruption to a large extent would also be a huge achievement. The statements that show that the amount of assets acquired by corruption in Hungary over the last 25 years is much higher than the amount of government debt accumulated in the last 25 years have come to light. So we can see in itself what a lot and what a topic it is that corruption or non-corruption is, and it is understandable that when we hear nothing else from television, the press, the opposition benches, but we constantly understand that corruption, corruption, corruption, and corruption, then we understand that the government is really trying to put forward a bill and that the two-thirds majority is trying to get it to accept something that strengthens itself and tries to make it look like they are taking effective measures to eradicate corruption. But we hope and trust the government, and we trust that that is what this is really about. By the way, it is extremely important to have integrity in the public sector, people with trust in them. When either the court or the public authorities decide in some dispute for the benefit of someone, it is obviously easy to accept this, but if a decision is made in spite of someone's benefit, then obviously many people can talk about corruption, and public confidence must be strengthened so that it does not arise. In this respect, it is clearly necessary to select the appropriate persons to fill these positions in the public sector. In this respect, this is a good aim of the legislation, i.e. trust in the public sector, strengthening public confidence. I also agree with what Secretary of State Répássy has said, which talks about the obligation to cooperate and the obligation to inform. This is a very problematic area, since the employer could not have known about it on the basis of personal rights so far. If the employee has not provided information or has not appeared in the newspaper or has not appeared at the level of a rumor, in many cases the employer does not even know that, where appropriate, a public employee, civil servant or civil servant has committed a serious crime. In fact, this law should be capable of preventing such cases and of having discretion as to what the employer will do in this case. It is very interesting that a situation can be avoided, as we know very well how long-term proceedings eventually result in the judgment, that the judgment itself may take four to five to eight years, and that a worker can remain in a public trust or finance management position which he could not otherwise fill on the basis of the crime he committed, or at least he would not have the trust of his employer, nor would the public have the confidence to carry out that task in the administration and continue to work as a public servant, public servant or even a person in service. There is another goal: making public administration more flexible. Well, we already have rules in place that are easier to tie in and not just to get involved in, but we are not sure that everything that is right in the regulation is absolutely appropriate in this regard. Obviously, the goal of making it difficult to reorganize human resources in the public sector is understood, and we also understand that there is a need for change within it. The explanatory statement of the legislation places great emphasis on ensuring that this is done under the appropriate guarantee arrangements. Now, we do not see these guarantee rules in the law as much as we would like to see them in this regard. For example, with regard to secondment, there are rules relating to a change in appointment, in which perhaps more guarantees would be needed. The unilateral amendment of a contract is obviously a wall that is difficult to digest, especially for the worker, where appropriate. It's always weird when we unilaterally modify a particular contract, an appointment. Because one-sided modifications are possible? Only the employer has the opportunity. There was a general rule in the Labour Code that, when amending any unilateral contract of employment which would put the worker at a disadvantage, the worker could always turn to the court, so that the possibility of judicial review appeared there as a guarantee. In this case, we can't always talk about this. But let's go into the bill in detail. In the first part, the legal status of civil servants is discussed in the draft legislation. We fully agree that there should be an official certificate to prove that there is no criminal record and that it is included in the precise list of cases in which a public servant can be contacted in criminal proceedings. It is quite clear that there are crimes involving certain negligence, but that should not be a condition for the termination or establishment of a civil servant relationship, since in many cases it is only at the end that the procedure was justified or not, whether it was subject to a final decision or not. So careless crimes are not included in this, only serious crimes, and this is the right thing to do in this case. [[21.00]] In the case of armed organisations, professional members of armed bodies, it is also appropriate that a substantiated suspicion of a criminal offence to be prosecuted should be reported, and in what cases it is specified, if it is not reported by a professional member of the armed body, and it is rightly considered as insubordination if the obligation to notify is not fulfilled by a professional member of the armed body. A new legal institution will be introduced, so to speak, at the next stage of the prosecution's proceedings. I have already mentioned in my introduction that it is very right that the prosecutor should notify the employer, so that he is subject to notification in the event that the defendant is found by the prosecutor to have been prosecuted against the defendant and brought to the attention of the employer. It's the prosecutor's signature duty. In many cases, if the employee does not want to admit it, he does not speak in good time, then the prosecutor must indicate it at the prosecutor's stage. Obviously, the D.A.'s office will have to get used to the new system. Obviously, this should also be the case, but where appropriate, it will always ask the employer, according to the protocol, if he is working under what legal relationship. This will come out, so it will be clear to him what the cases where he has to signal will have to be signed. A seemingly small item in the next law on the status of judges is, by the way, the role of sitters. If there is a disturbance in the distribution of seats, so that, for reasons laid down by law, the number of sitters is not sufficient, the court may re-allocate. This is also a correct change in legislation, because this is also necessary in any way. One-sided amendment of the appointment in the case of employees covered by the Act of Kkt. It is possible to unilaterally modify the appointment in relation to entry into the workplace. Here we find it a little much that the employee and the civil servant have to travel for three hours. These three hours of travel, however, will significantly increase his working time, and unfortunately, it is not about his undertaking to do so, but here, with practically one-sided changes, the employer can redeploy him, and on this basis his working conditions will be completely different, and his work will be different. Unfortunately, there is no possibility here that there is an appropriate guarantee of redress, so you can even, let's say, challenge this unilateral amendment in court. Next is the issue of secondment, the secondment between government offices. This is obviously because life has created the need for this, and it is quite obvious that in order for professional work to take place and for professional work to be carried out, there should be no shortage of qualified, skilled civil servants anywhere, and therefore, in some cases, it should be regrouped. This is what the institution of secondment is for. That's very right, we agree. However, the possibility of assigning an employee for an unlimited period of time is no longer acceptable. In this case, the legislation sets a maximum period of 6 months, but then the maximum of 6 months per calendar year, I stress, which is very important, so it can be ordered for up to six months in a calendar year, in which case even this half-year may be extended in certain cases if it is possible to carry out the task specified in the secondment in a longer period. In that case, they shall be extended. In the case of secondment in the same municipality, these six months plus whatever. If a person is assigned to another settlement, this applies for a period of 50 days. Then a new legal institution to open an indecent procedure. Here, at first reading, one might wonder how guilty the presumption of innocence is in this case, since it has obviously not been established in criminal proceedings that the civil servant committed that crime. However, it is also quite clear that the employer has the need to carry out the task of a labour force with a public trust determined in accordance with the specific legislation. In this case, the question of innocence and public confidence must be competing. Here, the rule set out here in the indecent procedure is the law, at some level it gives the worker the opportunity to properly explain his defence, because the employer can make three kinds of decisions during the indignity procedure. On the one hand, he will terminate the proceedings if he has not committed any disciplinary offences or misdemeanors. Or, if what you have done is not so serious that your relationship should be terminated, in this case you can transfer it to another job. In that case, if you are unworthy of your office, you will continue to pay 50% of your salary and 50% of your salary until the final decision is reached. The full amount will be paid, if it proves innocent, if he is convicted, he will lose it. So what we see in this law is that there are a lot of rules that would strengthen public confidence. If our amendments are to be adopted, we will consider supporting them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-16-292	I now give the floor to Andras Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-02-16-293	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, as far as the purpose of the law is concerned, I think it would be useful to clarify something first of all. You claim that this bill is necessary because public confidence against civil servants can be strengthened here by correcting legal status laws, possibly by stricter sanctions. Well, I think they're wrong. This isn't the place to start the story. They could have done that, for example, the anti-corruption package, which they were unable to account for last year, perhaps in November, in connection with the banning scandal, to date, they are unable to account for who are the state officials who were banned from the United States on corruption charges... - we have tabled this package of laws. You have not even allowed this to be discussed in the House. In fact, it hasn't even happened that we're presenting the package of laws, they're rejecting it, because it's an opposition proposal, and maybe, say, Imre Vas would name it. 'Cause, you know, there's a possibility of that. We've seen a miracle like this before. There is a great opposition proposal, they do not want opposition success, and Imre Vas, let's say, takes it in his name, is discussed and accepted by the House. This is where we should have started. I mean, not where Imre Vas takes it in his name, but where you accept a comprehensive anti-corruption package. They didn't. Speaking of civil servants, there are more concrete ways to increase public confidence. In the summer of 2013, if I remember correctly, the case of the development wallet, which, according to the urban legend, was still the territory of Lajos Simicska, was an assistant state secretary who turned out to have serious offshore interests. That's when we put forward a proposal not to be a state leader, a political leader, a government official who has offshore interests at all. Have you accepted this proposal? They weren't even willing to negotiate. Mr. Secretary. The fact is that, as long as you allow it, you give a green signal that government officials, civil servants, state political leaders are involved with offshore interests, pumping the income generated here in Hungary into offshore tomatoes, as long as you allow them to be offshore knights at the highest levels of state life, there is absolutely no need to talk about restoring public confidence here. [[21.10]] Why would they want to punish simple officials until people at the head of state leadership are free to pump their income from Hungary so that they have to pay less taxes? As long as state leaders are allowed to steal and rob freely, avoid the Hungarian tax rules, it is quite hypocritical to talk about your desire to restore public confidence by imposing tougher disciplinary rules for ordinary civil servants. That's just plain impertinent. On the other hand, while we are talking about civil servants' administrative staff, the story should probably start at least eight years ago, but there are nine, there has been no substantial salary improvement for employees in the lower half of the administrative hierarchy. I'm not talking about the people who work in the window, let's say, in the steering windows. It is not those who have become the winners of the single-key tax system, because they are Deputy State Secretarys, State Secretarys, Government Commissioners, Ministers, or even government commissioners and ministerial commissioners, that they are also members of Parliament, and therefore draw income from public finances on two channels. These are the people who are the political appointees of Fidesz at the head of the administration, of course they have benefited, and have done better in the last four years, as they are the net winners of the single-key tax system. However, those who manage the social security and pension affairs of Hungarian citizens are the simple tax inspectors who we expect to land chained VAT frauds, for example, the SAO officials from whom we expect to enforce basic public health standards, the officials from whom we expect poisoned, unmarked, corrupt products to be removed from the shelves, the nature conservation guards from whom there are fewer and fewer, and we expect them to help prevent the thirtieth of these dogs from entering nature conservation areas, the dog has not developed their salary. Until the salary of staff performing basic public tasks is improved, it is absolutely futile to dream of having an administrative apparatus suitable for public interest enforcement in Hungary. In recent years, it has been said that the lower level of public administration, which is not the spectacle kitchen, which is not the armada of ministerial commissioners, government commissioners, but the people who are there to enforce the public interest when it comes to our natural values, when it comes to food security, when it comes to the recovery of taxes, in these administrations, these public tasks are being carried out today for less and less money. It should be said openly and fairly, and it should be said that for the past four years, it was not the public interest that was important to you, but the private interest. How can kissers get pretentious, how can people who are put on the head of a ministry as political agents be feathered, and in addition to allowing them to pump income into offshore interests? That's what we should be talking about. As regards the bill, there are three specific objections to the Possibly Other Politics. Firstly, what has already been partly affected by my fellow opposition Members, one of the concerns of this bill is that it allows flexible secondment between government offices, so that an official can be transferred from government office to government office for up to 50 days a year. The only thing we can think of is that the Hajdú County Government Office was given national powers in a completely insane or even very thoughtful way, for example by the Plazastop Act. Isn't it a coincidence that there are a little few construction administrators at the Hajdú County Government Office, and that's why, for example, they want to move qualified staff from Zala County to Hajdú County for 50 days? Then you should say that. It should not be said, however, that the practice of giving national powers to certain government agencies should be abolished. It is obvious that a government office, whether it is Hajdú-Bihar County or any of them, does not have the apparatus to perform national tasks. So it would not be necessary to increase employee vulnerability by extending the secondment period and, where appropriate, by taking someone away from their family, or, where appropriate, by having a government official remove his child from school if he wants to see it. It should not be the lives of these officials that should be crippled, but should be abandoned by the practice of giving government offices national authority in accordance with their oligarch interests and oligarch relations. In addition, the maximum duration of secondment is extended from 22 to 50 working days by, of course, these officials being poorly paid, thus strengthening the trend that adequate skilled personnel are increasingly looking for prosperity in the private sector or simply emigrating from this country. Dear Parliament, The very characteristic of this bill is the way it prohibits trade union officials from being members or officials of the board of Hungarian government officials. This story has already been played with the Hungarian Police Faculty. Your policy for five years has been all about the fact that the Hungarian trade union movement, which is already in a bad situation, is simply about to be eliminated. They want to make the Hungarian people perfectly vulnerable, because Hungary in Orbán is about negotiating the minimum wage for wage slaves in Japan and Saudi Arabia. This formula does not include a strong trade union movement; it does not include the presence of strong trade unions in the public sector where appropriate. Because let's look at where there have been strong pressure trade unions in the last 20 years, before 2010, which, if any, have also stood metastaticly for industrial work! At a place where basically the public was the maintainer, in the public service. There were strong trade unions in public service companies and the public sector. The fact that you are constantly repressing the opportunities for trade unions to organise, the opportunity for workers to organise is precisely the vision in Orbán that the worker should be happy to work for his hunger, for example, if he can be a public worker for an embarrassing payment. Do not want to organize, organize, or demand better working conditions, because the Orbán economic strategy is about Hungary's desire to compete with remote countries with poor working conditions, weak regulators, weak public interest enforcement and humiliatingly low wages. It's a shame what they're doing, and the reason this law is strongly integrated in this concept is because in the last 20 years, if there was resistance somewhere, it was the public sector. Thirdly, I am also obliged to address the fact that the minimum requirements of the rule of law are being tried in a way which is embarrassing to smuggle in additional penalties for civil servants when criminal proceedings have been brought against them. If criminal proceedings are brought, 50% of the salary must be withheld until suspension is lifted. The amount withheld shall only be paid after the closure of the criminal proceedings if, as a result of the procedure, the criminal liability of the Government official has not been established. It's nothing more than a parasite punishment. Now, the thing is, it's not a law of government that prescribes penalties, it's a criminal code. Mr. Secretary of State knows that very well. Well, what a world it is where a statute law provides for an additional punishment. And one more: a similar system, of course, I know, is already in the Hungarian legal order, and in the case of mayors. [[21.20]] However, in the case of mayors, there is a non-suitable procedure whereby the person subject to the proceedings may seek redress against the withdrawal of a salary. My question, Mr Secretary of State, is why the government official does not have a right of appeal when he is being deprived of his salary - while the criminal proceedings are not yet over - quite simply. Therefore, this provision is a gross violation of the right of appeal provided for in the Fundamental Law, since it applies a sanction without providing for any remedy, distinguishing within a homogeneous group in an unconstitutional manner. Why is it that, in the case of the mayor, there is a possibility of redress under a non-courtial procedure that does not apply to the government official? And the fact is that, in itself, there are very serious legal certainty concerns about the fact that a quasi-punishment is imposed by the employer and not on the basis of a criminal court and not on the basis of the criminal code, but on the basis of the statute law, if the crime is not committed by someone else, but by a government official. One more thing: Like my colleague Bárándy, I would like to make a circle of respect that, of course, I do not want to defend the crime, but let us consider that this proposal is not just about corruption, it is not just about acts committed in connection with government civil rights. What if, let's say, someone gets drunk in his spare time and makes a mess of himself? Or let's move on: what if he commits a traffic crime as a result of negligence? You're still gonna cut half your paycheck? Without any criminal convictions? What do you think? In some rightful rule of law, punishment, punishment are provided for by the Penal Code, and it is not imposed by the boss, the employer, but by the criminal court. You've been completely ignoring this. This provision is therefore contrary to the prohibition of discrimination within a homogeneous group at least three times, violates the fundamental right to appeal and, moreover, violates fundamental legal certainty standards and is therefore completely unacceptable. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-294	I now give the floor to Secretary Robert Répássy.
u2015-02-16-295	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I really enjoyed the speech by Congressman Schiffer, and it was really rhetorically so great that, after all, for 15 minutes, talking about the bill without 10 minutes of it being about the bill, that was a pretty good achievement. But for what I have asked for the floor, the remarks made by MEPs Barándy and Mr Schiffer in particular, and I have concluded from this that you are not fully aware of the data and statistical data in criminal proceedings that, let us say, the public sector can be affected by corruption crimes. This is not a coincidence, so if you think about it, it is primarily the corruption crimes of public figures or known people. But: At the end of last year, Attorney General Péter Polt talked about anti-corruption activities and the actors in the justice system participated in this event, Péter Polt talked about the following figures. In connection with police measures, 360 defendants have been or are being prosecuted for bribery at the office, this number is 165 for border police and financial officers in cross-border offences. For the NAV staff, 150 loaded persons working in the public administration have been charged 234 in the past period. For corruption offences, the other important area is the procedure for public body workers and public procurement procedures. In recent years, 55 people have been involved in criminal proceedings. In other cases, we had to deal with 2056 of the defendants. So we took action against 3020 loaders in 2014, said Péter Polt. More than 3,000 corruption or corruption crimes have been committed by the prosecution. So they are misunderstanding when they think that there is no actual corruption in the public sector. Obviously, I am not saying that this is excluded from the public sector, but these magnitudes, the 3,000 crimes, the 3,000 prosecutions are enough reasons to impose such strict reporting obligations in public sector public trust positions. We're talking 3,000 crimes or at least 3,000 crimes. According to Péter Polt, the case assessed in 2013 was 1215. This is also an interesting number, since 1215 cases were decided in 2013 against 3020 in 2014. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious phenomenon. I do not dispute that, of course, in the case of senior state officials or senior civil servants, this crime or suspicion of this crime is flagrant. I note that the bill also applies to the Deputy State Secretarys, and it also applies to the Administrative State Secretarys, so that all those who are in a public service relationship apply to all of them. So, practically, it applies to all public sector employees from the border police to the Minister of State for Public Administration. That's all I wanted to tell you for now, so that we'd be aware of the figures. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Imre Vas applauds.]]
u2015-02-16-296	Ladies and gentlemen, Now for the two-minute comments. First, I give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer.
u2015-02-16-297	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, the thing is, we don't argue with each other on this, we just talk side by side. Yes, the situation is serious, and the numbers are likely to be true, as you said. There's a reason why we'd like to have the NAV panel set up, which, in a shameful way, has been laid by the Justice Committee for months. For example, the NAV investigation committee would be precisely trying to determine whether or not chained-up VAT frauds could have occurred to this extent or what actions within the organisation have led to the proliferation of corruption-like acts. So, Secretary of State, if we do not argue with each other on this, then please turn back to my fellow Member, Imre Vas, find György Rubovszky, and get them to stop breaking the law, and the Justice Committee will finally discuss our proposal for the NAV Committee - one. Two, if the situation is so serious, Mr. Secretary, when will civil servants, government officials, be forbidden to have offshore interests? Because if corruption is so widespread within the state apparatus, then perhaps it should not be allowed to be pumped into various offshore tomatoes - with a slight disorder. Why couldn't we accept this proposal? Three: if the situation is so serious, why could it not be accepted that the proposals for different public assets and other permissions, together with your counter-offers, should be made public immediately after the deadline, and easily accessible? This is where we should start the story. What you are doing here as a punishment is not fair, because this proposal is not just about official crimes, my question remains, for example, why such an unworthy, unconstitutional procedure should be applied to officials because of other crap committed in the event of a careless traffic offence or drunkenness, which is not related to administrative law. Thank you.
u2015-02-16-298	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2015-02-16-299	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A few comments, Mr Secretary. First of all, I could say - if it were cheap, but it is still true - that the prosecution of Péter Polt, who will be prosecuted against corruption, is not very relevant to me. We have devoted a whole report for several hours to proving that these procedures are unfortunately managed, at least in relation to matters of political concern. However, what I can say, Mr Secretary of State, is that this proposal does not, to any extent, tighten up corruption by civil servants or civil servants, it is simply a notification obligation, nothing else. That is precisely the problem with him, that your aim is not to achieve results, to actually act against this, but to eliminate the problem and to make it look like you are fighting corruption, even though this proposal is only suitable for creating the appearance. [[21.30]] It also makes it look like the problem is basically here. I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, whether there is a statement from the High Prosecutor that, in its volume, say, how many forints are affected by the damage done by state leaders, by state-organised corruption, and how much is affected by what is being done by civil servants and civil servants. It is unlikely that such a statement exists, but I can advance to you that corruption affects this country primarily because the state operates in a corrupt way, not because some government employees commit corrupt acts or acts of corruption. That is, Mr Secretary of State, until they do so that the operation of the state is not based on it, they only scratch the surface by scratching on civil servants or civil servants. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] try to amend the relevant legislation in any way. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-02-16-300	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély as a normal word applicant.
u2015-02-16-301	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to do a repeat, but I don't think you can say that enough. Under the legislation in force, the content of the appointment of the public service officer may be amended only by mutual agreement between the administrative body and the official. By way of derogation, the consent of the government official shall not be required, inter alia, if the place of employment of the official remains within that municipality and the time between the new place of work and the place of residence does not exceed one and a half hours per day in the case of a government official raising two hours or a child under ten years of age. Two hours for three hours, one hour and a half for two hours. This justification is merely explained by the fact that one hour travelling is common, but the change would have a job-saving effect. This cynicism is amazing! In addition, the explanatory statement considers it unnecessary for the government official to continue to ask for a waiver within four working days, instead of five working days, due to a unilateral change in the place of work. I mean, he's either gonna take it or give up on public service. This is another gift from the real family-friendly governing parties to the Hungarian families. And there's another moment for that, Mr. Secretary. Eight hours plus two hours is ten, eight plus three hours is eleven. I do not know if you are aware of the relations of Hungarian public transport today. I travel mainly on the Hungarian Railways every day. Believe me, Secretary of State, going from Kaba to Budapest is two and a half hours, but often it takes three and a half hours, even four hours, according to today's conditions. Buses have the same experience in different companies. And trust me, this happens more than once a week, not twice. So I'm gonna ask you, after eight hours of work a day, a worker who's never late on his way home or on his way back to work travels another three hours, how he's gonna get some rest for the next day's work. I would also like to remind the Secretary of State that last week there was a series of programmes, where, I understand, State Secretary Katalin Novák announced the reopening of the application for a family-friendly job, where, of course, small and medium-sized enterprises and public institutions can apply. It was a great pleasure to announce that it is now possible to apply for HUF 50 million instead of HUF 23 million. I think that these institutions should not submit an application for a family-friendly job, because there is nothing to do with it. Although true, we can remember the speech during the autumn session when John Lázár said on a question that his ministry was not family-friendly, and everyone should take note of that. I don't think it's possible to acknowledge it. I know that one worker won't say no, because everyone is ten nails attached to his work, and he tolerates everything for his employer, even if it happens in the ministry. But I think it's really, really wrong. It's not okay when you say that if you're ten years old, you can travel three hours for a father or mother. I don't think the two hours were okay, and the two and a half hours weren't okay. It's not okay, believe me. That means that after 11:00, if you're on the right track, let's say, the public railroads, which rarely happens, go home after 11:00, and you're pulling another shift, and the next day, your employer expects you to be fresh, prepared and ready for work at the office. I think it should be considered that this part of this amendment should at least be withdrawn, because it is very wrong. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-302	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Robert Répássy.
u2015-02-16-303	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to draw your attention to the rules of the bill. First of all, you have to count the three hours back and forth, so it's an hour and a half and a half. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Understood!]] So it doesn't happen that someone travels for three hours to work and then travels home for three hours. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: 11 o'clock! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Otherwise you'd be 14.]] So once again, you're traveling for an hour and a half at the most. [[Interviews from the benches of MSZP: Twice!]] Yeah, but let me put it this way, because I told you this, and I thought that was clear. [[Nándor Gúr: It is quite clear!]] The appointment may only be changed on a one-sided basis if the place of work changes within the settlement. So inside the settlement. Let's say, apart from Budapest, where it doesn't matter that someone works in a district in Pest or in a district in Buda, but in all the other county seats where there are government offices or even district offices, the new job must also be in the settlement to move within the settlement, or to change the appointment. I don't think it's going to be that much of a burden, say, for a government official in Debrecen, Szeged, Győr, that we've had to go to one headquarters, and now to another. In general, government offices are located in city centres, so it is not a big problem. It is undoubtedly true that someone in Budapest may be transferred from a job in Budapest to a job in Pest. But, frankly, Budapest is a very special city from this point of view. Some people actually travel to work for an hour and a half a day, then travel home for an hour and a half. So, apart from the guarantees that I have told you, there is no such rule for a parent with a child under the age of ten, namely, there is only the two-hour rule. However, I think that this is fair in order to preserve your job, because you may be able to merge offices or transfer the seat of the office to another government office, so it is a fair rule if you are able to keep your job with such a unilateral change of appointment. He will work in the same settlement, so he will not have to go to any other settlement; indeed, he will travel a little more. But I'm telling you, apart from Budapest, in all the other county seats in the country, this doesn't mean that this is why the worker should have an unbearable difficulty. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Imre Vas applauds.]]
u2015-02-16-304	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr for a two-minute comment.
u2015-02-16-305	Thank you very much. If you have been so kind as to answer the question asked, I would like to ask you to answer the following questions with a similar simplicity. From administrators to State Secretarys, everyone is covered by what we are talking about in relation to the bill. In the same way, does the legitimization of job accumulation extend from administrators to State Secretarys, which has appeared, say, in terms of the members of the supervisory board mentioned above and others? You have to be able to answer that with a simple yes and a no. The other is the issue of secondment. I understand this justification for a child under the age of two hours and three hours, not under ten years, but I do not understand why in a given year there is a six-month term. Is the state administration, the work of the various authorities, operating under your authority so underorganized that it is necessary to provide for a six-month secondment for half a year in order to maintain operational capacity? [[21.40]] Or answer me as a third, how, in the light of objectivity and subjectivity, the category of disproportionate harm, which I mentioned once, should be treated. I would also like you to give a clear answer to the fourth question, which concerns the issue of a public office card, as to who, if not the person with the public office, they want to give it to. Who else? Thank you very much. I hope you'll answer that. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-306	I would like to point out that, at the moment, only Mr Répássy Róbert has indicated that he would like to speak, but if he does not, I would like to ask if anyone else would like to comment on the debate, because if he does not... [[For signal:]] There are some candidates, however, which means I give the floor to Congressman László Szakács.
u2015-02-16-307	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry, I thought my fellow Member pressed the button first. I would also like to do a little bit of what Mr Secretary of State said about the number of crimes and why it is important to draw up this legislation in this way. In fact, it shows that the three threads are better than a thread, so let more information come to the employer than to the employer. In this case, too, obviously - if you don't mind the interests of the investigation - I suppose this could be reciprocating. However, I think that this will be a system that does not work, because there are so many kinds of certificates, so many kinds of official certificates, and so many of them must be obtained in order for someone to fulfil such a job, and in addition to extending too much the scope of those crimes, in fact all intentional crimes are covered by the scope of the crimes involved, which will keep under constant pressure those threatened by this type of procedure. But first, back to those numbers. These are really big numbers, Mr. Secretary. I really think it's worth dealing with, but there's one more thing that's also a question for me: what kind of weight cases are we talking about here? Is there a statement that these cases that actually undermine public confidence in the public sector at such a level, although they are a large number, are not a date-writer, I do not know whether it is a gift or an earlier date, but it is indeed an event that affects public confidence in essence. I must refer you back to another debate. We discussed here with Attorney General Péter Polt, the Attorney General, and appreciated his report, where we had to argue that the problem is not what is in the report, because it can be good, but what is not in it. What is not in it are the cases that destroy this kind of public confidence. If we can maintain or destroy public confidence through individual cases, through their access to public discourse, then I am quite certain that I think that there should be a moral order from the government, rather than such taxative discipline, not least by means of criminal means. There's an existential fear in the beginning. Today in Hungary, whatever the government's propaganda says, it is not easy to find a place. With administrative experience, it is certainly not easy to find a place, and in the competitive sphere it is very difficult to accept the worker who has fallen out of it. On top of that, we're putting a threat that shoots at almost everything. In almost every case that, at some level, can make an urban magistrate, or an urban document clerk or district clerk, who is now hanging over his head, I am not sure that everyone will be told and taught exactly what he should be taking care of from now on and why, and what the subjective and objective standards of this will be, I do not think we are doing good for public trust, either, because I must say, Mr Secretary of State, that today in Hungary they do not necessarily trust not only politics, but also the offices. Offices also operate erratically, and when offices operate erratically, this public confidence is already lacking. Now, if it begins to decompose from the inside because someone is afraid that his employer has been given too much authority by law, since we do not underestimate this when the accuser becomes the judge; let me refer here to what my fellow Member Schiffer said. In a rule of law, it is a criminal court that can impose punishment and punishment, an act of forgiveness. But the fact that, before the judgment, there is a legal disadvantage in your workplace that is not examined by experts, but that, on the basis of an objective non-standard subjective attitude and subjective consideration, someone may suffer from this disadvantage, I think that this makes it even more unpredictable, not only from the outside, where people already consider public administration to be unpredictable, so many times that no one really knows where to go, but also from the inside. This will result in this kind of dysfunction, that everyone will move the file and rather not deal with anything, so as not to commit something they didn't even know could be like this. And we're still saying that it's just appearances, and we're hoping that this isn't gonna be a cleanup. We can trust that they always want something good, and not only do they choose those you consider unworthy, or even your extended arms, those government officials think you're unworthy, or simply don't want to work with them. I think that there are far more fairer procedures than the fact that we are putting this into law, we do not think about the practice of this, we do not think about how much the subject adds to it, we do not have enough law to do it, and we do not think about how much public confidence it is, and we do not have enough law to do it, and we do not think about it from the inside. What you have said here, whether in the state agencies, the NAV, the public offices, I trust that in these 150 cases there are chain frauds at the NAV, that there are ten, one hundred, one thousand billion HUF items in this which we are constantly listening to certain theories in the news, but they are not actually being clarified. And it is not expected from this proposal that they can be clarified, at the very least if someone does so, it may be possible to read on his head that he has violated some secret, and he will be fired for it. I think that this is not the way to resolve these situations. These could really be resolved with confidence, but I think that we lawyers have learned that we must not create order with rigour, but with a system. If I widen the circle, and if I really do miss the careless forgery of authentic documents - see, someone misses a date - through drunk driving to the real corruption situation, anything is okay with anyone asking for or accepting or offering anything, I think it opens this door so wide that it can paralyze the system or the people in it, let's face it, and let's get back to the ground of reality, they have no choice but to work there, to swallow what's happening to them, to listen to the boss, to accept the punishment, and to work on the next day. I think that when someone wants to change the administration with good intentions and good feelings, they want people to trust officials, and they know that if someone goes into an office, they'll help him and solve his case, they don't want workers there who want to get as far away from those cases as possible, they don't want a civil servant, and they don't want a civil servant who wants to get as far away from the cases as possible, they don't want to do things that are a little bit more complicated, because they end up doing something, and then they lose their job, they lose half their pay, and someone might even report it. [[21.50]] The goal we set may be right, but what we want to achieve with it, I think, is going to be pretty much the same. This is how Hungary works today. We're not happy about this. We are not happy to see this atmosphere, but this is how Hungary works today. You can pretend you don't, but you do. Then let's stop it from working that way. I.A. should have a bigger role to play. Not one man to decide, not the accuser to be the judge, not on the basis of subject matter, but on the basis of a forum in which one can seek redress. There should be a forum for this, where negotiations can be conducted and hearings can be held on the basis of normal evidence in all other cases, except for the crime. I think that we lawyers could stick together a little bit more in this, and in the event of a crime, a court in Hungary will act, and it can only be the one who employs punishment, punishment or action, and no one else in the event of a crime. This is also in the interest of the State, the state's sole criminal authority is the prosecution, and then the independent court is the one that must guarantee and enforce it. I believe that in this spirit, this law is wrong here. This can be improved, and public confidence can be built by seeing it above, and it may not be worth doing the same at lower levels below. Because if you see anything else, it'll be a different example, Mr. Secretary. And if it's a different example, then they don't care what the punishment is, because if one can do it, so can the other. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-02-16-308	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2015-02-16-309	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Firstly, I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State a few specific questions, and I would ask him to come forward in his reply, in his closing words, or it would be even better if we could respond in the course of the debate and then even to what Mr State Secretary has to say. However, before that, I would like to suggest one more aspect to your attention. The title of the law is to amend certain legal acts. I can only understand how the rule amending the criminal procedural provision specifically applies to them comes here. But what I would like to ask - if I understand wrong - is that this is a general rule, then correct me, Mr State Secretary - how there are rules amending the procedural provisions of criminal proceedings that are universal and not directly linked to civil servants and civil servants. I ask this because we are here on the first day of the Parliament's spring session in 2015, compared with one of the last laws of the autumn session, the President-elect of the Republic, who was, by the way, your party, and who was previously the president of this Parliament, said, I would like to quote this letter to the Parliament:, and the other lesson is that after 25 years, the time has come to realize that Parliament should finally break with the bad practice of salad law. Here's the end of the quote. Dear Secretary of State, what is this if it's not a salad? Yeah, it's a small salad, not a big salad, but it still is. If you are amending legal status laws, how does that include a provision amending the general rule of criminal procedure? And speaking of which, I would also like to ask whether these provisions have been agreed with anyone. Did they coordinate with professional representatives? Because it's the government's duty. It would have been mandatory, say, to negotiate an amendment to the court, the D.A.'s office and the law firm. Did it happen? 'Cause we haven't heard anything about that, and we don't know it from the presentation. And these are not just formal problems, they are content issues, because perhaps the government would not have used that wording at the time. And here's where I come up with one of my specific questions. I've raised it in my keynote speech, but I didn't get an answer. Secretary of State, what is to be understood as meaning that the procedure of proof may extend to the prevention of crime? In addition to the fact that the argument you are constantly making that the almost one and highest objective in criminal proceedings is to speed them up, this will certainly not speed it up, because if evidence can cover anyone other than criminal proceedings, it will certainly not speed up, it will only slow down. And the other is, you know, Mr Secretary, these are the provisions that can really make procedural provisions untied. Because what constitutes evidence to prevent crime, let's face it, is a subjective decision. Because if, let's say - let's keep it on the subject - they are investigating corruption crimes, then this wording also involves taking evidence that, say, prevents assault offences or traffic offences from being prosecuted. It is not even specified that evidence should be used to prevent crime in the particular circle. And that is the other question, Mr. Secretary of State - I may be wrong about that, but please note that there is a law in the Criminal Procedure Act where this term "crime" is included. I think that this does not meet the requirements of the norm. It's a crime, yes, it's a crime, but I don't know about it. Do me a favor, Mr. Secretary, find an example, see if I'm wrong about that. And the other, I would also like to ask - and I have received in part an interrogation from the Secretary of State in an answer, which I thank specifically, is a normal genre in Parliament - that this condition, according to which, in the assessment of the need for a measure to initiate another procedure, may also include facts relevant to the procedure of proof, proof, what that means. You can hide it, say, as the Secretary of State said, disciplinary proceedings. Mr. Secretary of State, do you think it's up to the prosecution or the police to take, say, evidence of disciplinary action within the framework of a professional representation? Because then I'd like to ask you why. For example, autonomy is one of the essence of these organisations. It's not for the police to say what kind of disciplinary action the bar conducts and how it proves. I don't think the police should babysit such a procedure. I don't think it's the police's job to interfere unsolicitedly with such a procedure. I don't think it's the police's job to ask or order the Chamber to proceed with this procedure in such a case. The Chamber can do this on its own. The only reason I insist on this is because the Secretary of State has given me this example. But if you give us another example, we can talk about it. But that makes the proof untied again. And, you know, Mr. Secretary, I've seen a lot of these. Unfortunately, I also found that sometimes the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office has strange orders for the National Assembly. Whether it's like this or not, I can't tell you that I didn't get any information about it, but I can imagine it did. Because the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office is very often using instruments that attempt to initiate a legislative procedure that broadens its powers by effectively referring certain procedural acts to its discretionary right by effectively blurring out its objective criteria in the law, i.e. the prosecutor interprets them as he wishes. I see in this proposal that it is a bit like this. Either they ordered this or they didn't order it, I can't tell. [[22.00]] But if evidence can be found in order to prevent crime, it means that practically the prosecuting prosecutor can prove anything in a particular case. Anything! Because I think that every prosecutor has so many fantasies that he can figure out why the evidence he's carrying out is capable of preventing a crime or why he's promoting it. Simply write a statement of reasons, and the framework for criminal proceedings has already widened to the extent that the prosecutor's office wants it. I don't like this, Mr. Secretary. In addition, I did not mention this in my speech as a keynote speaker; there is no justification for the bill in this regard for why this is good. So Mr Secretary of State did not mention this either, nor does the written justification of the bill mention it, so I have no idea what the legislator's purpose is with this proposal. I would be happy if you could answer and answer what I have just asked you about this, including why those constitutional concerns, let us say, are not correct, which I have formulated in this regard. And my other specific question, Mr State Secretary, would be what my fellow Member, if I remember correctly, was to say that a government official holding a management position cannot enter into a further relationship, apart from exceptions, and this exception, by chance, represents a supervisory board membership in a foundation established alone or in cooperation with another state founder, a body established by the state founder or a body established by the State. Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to hear a rational argument about why. Because the fact that the Member cannot do any other work, I do not think it very much right or even particularly wrong, especially now that the two-week seating order is being introduced, because this is practical; well, I can say that one of the most paid and comfortable pensioners will become a representative. If this is what you are planning, it is interesting and questionable why Members have been introduced to do not do any other job or occupation, but I would ask what is the rational reason why they can, on the other hand, be assigned to state officials and senior officials in such state firms. I have a malicious assumption, which is a malicious assumption, and unfortunately, I must say, it's based on facts, and maybe it's not so hypothetical anymore. This is what my fellow Member, Mr Gúr, spoke about when he said that you were playing that you are not raising the salaries of your representatives and the salaries of state leaders, but that you are allowing your own representatives and state leaders to receive public salaries from two to four places. As Minister for Foreign Affairs, perhaps now as an official in such foundations, as an official in a curatorium or otherwise. So basically, it's not that they're standing in front of the voters, and they're saying, please, that we want to increase the salary of our own representatives and senior officials, but they're figuring out different detour routes, how to pay from two to three to four places in such a way that they can eventually bring home a net of two million. Mr Secretary, that is not fair! If that is not the aim, then please tell me what the purpose of this proposal is. So these were two specific questions that I would like you to answer. Finally, I am referring here to my colleague Nándor Gúr's speech on the point of issuing a card to the person defined by other laws. What's the point? Do it to tell me. Because those who come in here, for example, usually come in with a purpose and a reason, these rules have lived for a very long time. Who do you have in mind? Obviously, there is some point and reason why this bill is being brought here now, because, of course, you can pass this answer with a general remark by the Secretary of State that the legislation is not personalised, but is intended for generality, but there must be some reason why this proposal is being brought here and now it is being incorporated. I would like to know why, because we cannot read about this in the explanatory memorandum either. So, Mr Secretary of State, I reserve the opinion, and I do not ask for your answer on this, because we obviously do not have the same position as regards state corruption and systemic corruption in the state, but I would ask you to answer these specific questions at the latest in your closing. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-310	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr for a two-minute comment.
u2015-02-16-311	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, my fellow Member, Bárándy, said that he did not consider the format under which their own fellow Members would double their welfare in such a way, where appropriate. I'll put it another way: I think it's unfair. Just so we're clear and clear, I think it's circumvention of everything, of anything that would be shown and accepted in a fair way, if that's what you think. The other part of my statement is that it would be good for you to break off, Mr Secretary of State, with the practice you have been carrying on for years; it would also be okay if you listened to it during the Member's speech, but at least if you do not do so, it would be good to break up with the practice of always answering the questions that are mentioned within the framework of the closing. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: I have spoken twice so far.]] Look, in particular, I have counted 13 questions that my fellow Members have asked, 13 of them. You don't answer to me in the closet, to us. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert raised his papers: I will decide that freely.]] That's a category of fairy tales, you know, that's a category of fairy tales that the congressman doesn't have a chance to reciprocate. If you had a drop of professional courage, you would dare to answer these questions as you go along, so that you can argue within the framework of the general debate. Do not pursue the practice that you have followed so far by not giving you the opportunity to engage in a general debate by expressing your own opinion, so that Members can discuss with you what might also serve to improve the bill. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-312	If there is no further intention to comment, the debate will be closed and I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Répássy, State Secretary.
u2015-02-16-313	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I say to Mr Gúr that I took part in the debate and, if I remember correctly, I spoke twice. So it's true that I can't or don't want to answer everything, and I've been trying to make a list of all the important issues I want to clarify. Of course, I'm not sure I can touch on all the 13 questions you've mentioned, but we'll still have a way to exchange ideas about that. Several times during the debate, the content of the notification obligation was raised as to what offences should be reported. Obviously, it doesn't apply to careless crimes. So only in the case of intentional crimes, it is true that this obligation to notify is also applicable to criminal offences, which, in our view, has already been derived from the public service status, that the public servant has such an obligation to the employer. Another question is that there was no sanction. The suspension granted by the right of appeal can be brought before the courts; the suspension was a mistake, as Mr Schiffer, Mr Group leader, said; of course it is possible to go to court. As can be done in any labour dispute, it is clear that the employer can be brought to justice against such a fundamental measure. The suspension in the public service, for example, is a common practice in Germany or Austria, so if a person is prosecuted, the public servant will be suspended from office in these two countries on the basis of rather strict rules. I note that in the case of the policeman or the soldier, this rule is still in Hungary, so the suspension will occur. The assignment is still in place, only between the ministries. It is proposed that there should now also be secondment between government offices. [[22.10]] But the secondment has already existed in the administration of the state, and for example, when assigned from a regional body of ministries to another place, the same thing actually happened because there was a delegation between two ministries. Now, that's what we're gonna make clear that there's a possibility of posting between government offices. Technical integration requires a six-month secondment. The administrative authorities are either merging into government offices, or at least new administrative authorities are merging into government offices, and the government office and administration may not have their seat in the same settlement. There's a case like this now. Indignity can be established by the employer at present. The amendment states that the fact of criminal proceedings alone does not give rise to inadequacy. So this is a very important rule that, from the fact that there is a criminal prosecution against someone and you have announced this to your employer, the employer cannot rely on indecentness, so that they cannot virtually dismiss or absolve the civil servant. I would like to tell Congressman Bárándy that that example was not a good example of lawyers at all, because lawyers are not covered by the law. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] Therefore, the personal scope of the law is not covered. I heard it's a shame it doesn't cover lawyers. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] The fact is that lawyers are covered by the law of the law, which provides for a strict suspension rule, by the way, so the lawyer must also be suspended from the practice of the profession of lawyer. I don't remember the rule exactly, but if I remember correctly, you'd have to suspend the lawyer in case of criminal charges. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: General Be.-rule.]] The Be. amendment is necessary because of the so-called signalisation, so that the prosecutor's office informs the employer that if criminal proceedings are pending. Otherwise, the condition is that the investigating authority should first determine whether it is in a position or in a legal relationship that the employer has an obligation in the event of the initiation of criminal proceedings. The remuneration of Members has been raised here several times. There is a fundamental misunderstanding here, because the Parliamentary Act contains clear rules on the remuneration of Members. There are conflicting positions and conflicting activities, and I have to say that everything is now incompatible, because the parliamentary law says that no other job search can be carried out by the Member; and there are compatible activities. But there is a rule in the Parliamentary Act that in this case the fee is reduced by 70 percent, if I remember correctly, so in Hungarian, 30 percent of the honor fee can only be awarded to a representative who otherwise carries out other activities compatible with the office of his representatives, i.e. he is appointed as a government commissioner. So there's a significant reduction in fees for Members. So I don't quite understand this criticism, and the parliamentary law makes that clear. The same applies to State Secretarys. There is no such rule for non-member State Secretarys, Mr Gúr is right about this, but the claim that politicians here want to give a kind of job accumulation, at least this does not apply to politicians in Parliament, is certainly not possible to raise their fees in particular. Even in relation to a public official certificate: the amendment is necessary because a law can create an office and a law has created an office which, in accordance with our use of the word, is considered a public official, but it is not the President of Parliament who issues them a certificate. There are, now, I'll tell you honestly, I haven't prepared any examples, but I'm sure this law just says that if there is such a law and it doesn't have an I.D., then this law should apply. So, for example, the President of Parliament can give you an ID. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: But where did this come up as a problem?]] I apologize, I do not remember exactly which law; for example, it is possible that the President of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information or any other office which is an independent body does not provide the National Assembly with a certificate, but still there is some public interest in proving himself, for example, in order to exercise his right of entry in the Parliament building or to participate in the National Assembly. [[Nándor Gúr: Based on this anyone.]] Well, anyone the law says is. So if you think that any official means that anyone under a law is right about that. If a law provides for such an identity card, it can be supplied. I note that this card does not grant any licence or any right, but merely justifies the appointment of the official, the official. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Where is the problem that makes the amendment necessary?]] I'll tell you again, I'm gonna check it out. There was a taxatical list in the original law, and it turned out that it was left out by officials who are already included in the laws, but not in this taxatical list. Because so far, it was either the basic law or the parliamentary law to name who these officials are. But this is not the full circle, who should otherwise be given a certificate, because some people are not included in the Fundamental Law or in the Parliamentary Act, but are included in their own legal status law. Seriously, I'm sorry, Congressmen, I'm going to see what kind of officials we're dealing with here, and I can keep you informed of that at any time. Dear House, I thought these were the most important questions. I accept, of course, that you have reservations about the bill, but please consider whether, overall, the bill can be supported, because it is primarily intended to strengthen public confidence in the public service. These rules, as I have said, have, for example, been deduced from the content of the service, but have not been properly regulated and sanctioned. That's what this law would do to make these rules. And so, in the future, the employer will decide for himself whether, for example, he wants to employ the person against whom he is prosecuted in the job or in another job, because the employer can decide that he will then be transferred to a job where, let's say, it does not arise against him, for example, that he is being prosecuted for disorderly conduct. I did not mean to say that it could be an apology, but it doesn't matter what kind of public relations this arises; there are civil servants who, due to integrity, are not even subject to disorderly conduct. Therefore, it is understandable that the employer wants to know about this and it is understandable that he might want to transfer it to another job. Mr President, Dear House, I'm asking you to support the bill. The objectives of the bill, I feel, have not been fundamentally challenged, are in agreement with its objectives, and I ask that this will affect your decision in the future. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-314	Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of our agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. On this day, Mr Zoltán Magyar applied for a speech after the agenda with a title titled Tamás Kopetti. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-02-16-315	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, He stands upright, firm, / He looks brightly up, / He burns unselfishly, warms, / The darkness has no place here, / He is created like a true man, / He is also made for light. / Sometimes he struggles with the current, / And secretly he cries maybe, / Then again he encourages, inspires faith, / Almost grows flame, / That he rapidly drops, loses weight, / even burns to the truncated end, he doesn't mind. / He completed his mission: / He disappeared and burned only to bring the light to the heart of the seeker and warmth. •We spent the whole Saturday day together, in Miskolc we were on a joint bus opening event. At that time, no one would have thought that Sunday dawn wouldn't be able to find us. I was there for you the whole time, but I didn't realize what was going on, I didn't understand how it could be that the people I talked to a few minutes ago were fighting for their lives. You had big plans. You were hopeful. With your kind organization, you were prepared to receive a recommendation on Monday. But death that day a year ago, at a tragic and unexpected moment, was taken from your family, from your friends, from the national side, from us. [[22.20]] We lost the loving son, brother, devoted father, friend, enthusiastic ETO fan, but Jobbik lost a lot with you. Not only because you were our candidate for Parliament, our county assembly and our representative in Mosonmagyaróvár, but also because you worked with eternal optimism and a desire to fight for our common goals. Over the years, we've fought a lot, shoulder to shoulder. I remember when I turned 18, I ran to you first proudly to show my MIÉP ID, and then we started building the county Jobbik together. The wine shop you operated, Rivalda, was not just a restaurant in Mosonmagyaróvár, but if needed, a campaign centre, if so, also worked as a printing press. And, of course, in addition to a night's beer, the thorns picked up during the day were also suitable for resolving conflicts. Your active role in public life, your worldview under all circumstances, has left a mark on your environment. To this day, many of us still have a baseline, often in a controversial situation, to make a decision based on how you would argue. It could have been any difficult time in life, no photograph, no memory of you in our minds where we wouldn't see you with a wide smile. That's the picture that lives inside of us, and that's how the whole city remembers you. You greeted everyone respectfully, you had a good word for everyone, there are many of us who could count on you. In addition to work, there will be eternal memories of Zánka rest, karaoke evenings, Danube shipping, or standing in the bleachers in Bucharest. And how did this one year go by without you? I'm not gonna give you any details, because I know exactly what you're following from up there. You see, as your family, friends, and everyone close to you feel your absence every day. You can also see your young children who are left behind, despite all the hardships, are on their way to life, which would not be possible without your inherited and learned posture and patriotism. You see, a few days ago, I was looking for your number in my phone directory, because I wanted to be the first to share what happened that day with you. Just like we've been doing all these years. Dear Tom. Rest assured, we held the flag with you, and hold it, we will not let it fall into the dust, we will carry it further. We'll take it until we reach our common goals until we get this nation back on its feet. That's why you made so many sacrifices, I promise you, it wasn't in vain. And if we have achieved this, I know that you will tell me upstairs with your usual wide smile and a satisfied voice that you played a major role in the creation of liveable, proud, independent Hungary. God rest his soul. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-16-316	Tamás Turgyán, an Armenian ethnicist spokesperson, who remembers the Armenians today? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2015-02-16-317	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, This is the moment of history, because it is possible for the first time at the plenary session of the Parliament that the elected representative of the Hungarian Armenian community can speak within these walls. I consider it an honor and a special privilege to speak to you on behalf of the Armenian diaspora in Hungary as a minority advocate. Who remembers the Armenians now? This rhetorical question was raised by Adolf Hitler on August 22, 1939, in Obersalzberg, while giving a briefing on the war rules that were about to break out. We saw how it turned out. Unfortunately, the question is relevant today for two reasons. On the one hand, a hundred years ago this year, the 20th century began with the arrest, executions and deportation of the leaders of Armenia on 24 April 1915. The first institutional genocide of the century in the Ottoman Empire. In total, nearly one and a half million Christians and hundreds of thousands of Greeks fell victim to brutal, cruel mass murders under the cover of World War I. On the other hand, the Armenian issue today also carries global memory political contexts, regional geopolitical tensions and Hungarian-related grievances. So we remember our Armenian brothers and sisters, and we are sad to note that the term Holocaust was first used by historians of the world for the Armenian ethnic cleansing. Dear House, Today, Armenians living in our country are part of the Hungarian political community, and we therefore have a strong opinion on the tragedy of a hundred years ago. We condemn ethnic and religious violence and believe that this should not be repeated in any way. Our position is in line with the United Nations Statute, the resolutions of the United Nations General Assembly and, in addition to several other states, the parliaments of Argentina, Australia, Belgium, France, Greece, Canada, Russia, Switzerland and Sweden condemning the fact of Armenian genocidium. I would like to stress in particular that Mr II. Pope John Paul and Pope John Paul II Garegin Armenian catolicos condemned the tragedy of a hundred years ago in a joint declaration. The weight of memory goes beyond human strength, we cannot undo the horrors, but at the same time remember and remind our political and human duty. Dear Parliament, In addition to the centuries-old weight of the pain borne by dignity, the interruption of relations between the mother countries is a huge burden for the Armenians in Hungary, and the termination of the previously balanced economic, social, political and diplomatic relations. Given the reasons, the resolution of the situation is not the competence of the parliamentary advocate, even if we strongly believe that relations have ceased between the Armenians and the Hungarians, but between their governments and their authorities. It is difficult, it is almost impossible to have an effective ethnic interest if there is no dialogue between Budapest and Yerevan. Tragic situation is that Hungary has become the focus of the centuries-old Armenian-Azeri conflict due to a ignominious murder more than ten years ago and subsequent events. For the Hungarian Armenian diaspora, which is predominantly established in Transylvania, the behaviour of the governments concerned has resulted in the mutual cessation of consular protection, the hostile attitude of the mother country to support it so far, and even the Armenian-Azerian relationship has become part of Hungarian internal politics. On the eve of the Putin visit, allow me to note that the opening of our country's eastern economy without Armenia is unimaginable, since, as a strategic partner of Russia, as a friend of Moscow, Jereva has a key role to play in the geopolitical processes of the region. Dear House, On behalf of the Armenians in Hungary, I would like to make it clear that the position of the Hungarian Armenian government is that the Hungarian government never had any intention of violating the Armenian people, the Armenian nation or the Government of the Armenian Republic. Political issues of bilateral relations can and must be resolved only on the basis of mutual benefits, in a calm, objective atmosphere, through political means and methods. Today, a hundred years after events tragically defining the fate of Armenia, perhaps it is time for the Hungarian government to review its position and its possibilities regarding the beneficial settlement of the Hungarian-Armenian relationship for both nations. For this work, the historical lesson of the 100-year anniversary carries adequate sobriety, responsibility and faith in the future. In the hope of success, I respectfully offer the support of the Armenian diaspora. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-02-16-318	Ladies and gentlemen, On the next day, István Szávay, Member of the European Parliament, spoke with the title "Ottó Herman, the last Hungarian polyhistorian," a hundred years ago. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-02-16-319	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On 27 December 2014, the last Hungarian polyhistorian, the father of birds, called Otto Herman in Budapest as a result of a fatal traffic accident, closed his eyes forever at the age of 79. Since the National Assembly has not met since the anniversary, I have only now the opportunity to commemorate it within the walls of the House. What I considered important was that, through one of my father's great-grandmothers, Juliet Herman, I am one of the family's descendants. The self-educated Hungarian ethnographer, zoologist, archaeologist, ethnographer and politician, who continuously formed himself without a university degree, saw the light of day in Breznobánya in 1835 as the fifth child of a Szász, i.e. zipszer family. Although he started studying Hungarian only at the age of six, at the age of 14, he wanted to become a Hungarian defender to participate in the great struggle for freedom of our nation, and although he was sent home because of his young age and lack of father's consent, he remained committed to Hungarian freedom and to Lajos Kossuth for the rest of his life. [[22.30]] The Turin hermit was visited three times in exile, and at her funeral she praised the great dead alongside opposition representatives Mór Jókai and Nándor Horánszky. Let them bury you under the ruins of Cheops; let them cast down upon you the mountains of Asia that besieg the heavens, in vain: Thou shalt rise. "You," said Lajos Kossuth. He also indicated his Hungarian name with two "N"s, and, despite repeated requests, he refused to appear in front of the Habsburg army's enlisting committee, which drowned in the blood of the Hungarian freedom fight. As you wrote, not because I will not serve as an Austrian. So in 1857, he was enlisted for 12 years, but his superiors immediately discovered his talent, so he was soon able to perform scribe duties at the regiment office. Meanwhile, he had the opportunity to study the life of the Dalmatian beach. From his childhood he devoted all his spare time to observing, analysing and drawing the wildlife around him, both as a student of nature, school, engineering student and compulsive. He collected spiders, climbed trees to study bird nests, drew river, lake, and sea fish. At the same time, however, the landscape and the man who was inextricably connected to it did not escape their attention, nor did they constantly perform ethnographic and archaeological observations. Getting rid of the military almost immediately joined the freedom struggles of the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe. In Milan, he fought under Italian free teams, then went to Poland and participated in the uprising in January 1863. Coming back from Italy, he became the architect of the Transylvanian Museum Association, and with enormous vehemency he took part in the scientific work, which he also carried out as an animal keeper of the Hungarian National Museum. He processed and illustrated Hungary's spiderfauna in three volumes. In his work, he also described 36 species of unknown spiders. In 1887 he published the history of fishing in Hungary, the main tools of the fishing craft, as well as the description, lifestyle and significance of the fish of our country. Its ornithological work is not negligible, as it has been demonstrated in many studies that some species of birds are not as harmful as previously thought. The work on the benefit and damage of birds is still profitable. In addition, Otto Herman was the first to provide serious evidence that cavemen lived in the Carpathian Basin. The public and political work of the last Hungarian polyhistorian is not negligible, since it was elected three times as an independence party representative, first on Kossuth's proposal, in Szeged, then in Miskolc, which has been the decorative citizen of the city since last year, and in Törökszentmiklós. During his representative's activities, he took a firm action in the 1870s to protect himself against the philoxera that destroyed the grapes, but also to promote the dissemination of scientific knowledge as widely as possible. The 100th anniversary of Ottó Herman's death, by 2014, the National Institute for Environmental Affairs organised a commemorative year next week, 26 and 27 February, in addition to the patronage of Speaker László Kövér. In the framework of this, the statue of Ottó Herman is inaugurated under the arches of the Ministry of Agriculture, which Jobbik welcomes and supports with great joy the exemplary life and work of Otto Herman. For us, Otto Herman will always be a powerful symbol of patriotism, freedom, and the love and respect of nature around us. To the dust of peace! Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-16-320	In response to the next agenda, Mr Ander Balázs came forward:. What's next, Southern Station? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-02-16-321	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, None of the European Union's approach policy, even the axiom of uncontested EU-sceptics, is that there will be a competitive economy only if it is accompanied by a well-built transport network; let's say, for us Hungarians since István Széchenyi or György Sina, they have not said much new. However, real estate and land development opportunities related to railway real estate, such as the well-spoken rail network or intermodal hub development, are largely defined by the anomaly I wish to address. The lack of land registration and the lack of completion of the planned land conversion greatly hampers the normal pace of implementation of the improvements, the modern, competitive, so Jobbik's reading shows that passenger-friendly railway operations are being developed. All of this, of course, can be done with proper caution and clean public life, with no ten-to-twenty-something percentage or doggies allocated, since we know since Theodore Roosevelt that uneducated people may be able to steal something from a freight wagon, but anyone who has gone to college can steal an entire railroad. It is not related to the area of real estate exploitation, but I am once again obliged to refer to the misrepresentation of MÁV-Cargo, which is equivalent to treason. With regard to real estate, Jobbik already drew attention three and a half years ago to the fact that the then accounting records of the MÁV contain some 132 thousand items, of which 113 thousand are buildings and buildings, while 19 thousand are land. On the other hand, the land registry contained only 16,000 estates, of which 6,500 were treasury-owned and 9500 were MÁV-owned. The past two years and the national transport strategy of 2013 still stated that, in the case of the Southern Railway Station as a potential real estate development area, its ownership and registration situation was not in order. The landslide at the end of January, which led to the temporary but several weeks' closure of the railway station, illuminates this bizarre situation with amazing force. The section above the railway tunnel leading to the South is also clearly connected to a layman, but it is cared for and maintained separately, as one half of the railway tunnel is owned by MÁV, while the other half is municipal, although it should be perfectly logical that such an important artifact and its environment require one operator, a single inspector, as not only the child among many midwives, but also a tunnel seems to be lost. With the rumours that the actions of the misdirected bush-killing public workers or the damage to inadequately drained waters have resulted in serious disruptions, as well as the concepts of conspiracy theories, according to which they wanted to test the scenario of the elimination of the Southern, and I do not want to deal with the outcome of the final opinion. In the end, of course, valuable tax forints, the taxpayers' contributions, regret the matter. A certain person who is in need of community transport and who is trembling about their work, students who go to school, those who handle their affairs or who travel to their families would like to avoid having to spend more time traveling, going to work and going to school, and this would be in maximum safe conditions. I'm asking why nothing has happened so far to eliminate the property chaos and the delay associated with it. Given the current bottlenecks in the Kelenföld, I am also interested in the views of those responsible for connecting metro lines 2 and 4 in the light of the natural damage that has occurred, as well as the fact that this could be a technical solution that could significantly improve the transport of the capital, including Newbuda, the quality of life of those living here, and, in addition to careful management, even the costs of the investment would be fully recovered from the exploitation of the surface. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-02-16-322	To speak after the next agenda, Ildikó Ildikó Bangóné Borbély applied:. The children of Kaba are worth less than the children of Sárrétudvar? It's an address. I'll give the floor to the congresswoman.
u2015-02-16-323	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to quote a written question that I submitted on 27 August 2014. Daily physical education was introduced in 2012, and daily physical education became mandatory in classes 1-3, 5-7 and 9-11 in the school year 2014-15. Instead of math, sweaty children in school hallways, gymnastics schools tell us that many of the schools are facing almost unsolvable difficulties in daily physical education. In 2012, after the introduction of the programme, the State Secretary of the EMMI sent a questionnaire to 3184 schools in the country, to which 1586 schools responded. According to the feedback, in about a quarter of schools, daily physical education is a serious problem, in many cases unsolvable, but the ratio could be worse because many did not take advantage of the possibility of answering. [[22.40]] In the research question of the practical obstacles encountered during the introduction, 58 percent of the institutions replied that there were insufficient gyms and sports fields, 457 schools had no gymnasiums at all, and 157 had no sports fields. In addition, 30 percent of schools complained about the lack of appropriate gym equipment and equipment, 12 percent were affected by a lack of teachers and 2.4 percent by inadequate training of teachers. With the help of other institutions such as nearby sports halls, swimming pools, or cultural houses, only 51 percent of schools were able to ease their problems, and 49 percent had no opportunity to do so. According to the report, the problem is not only that there are no gymnasiums, but also that they cannot provide adequate hygiene conditions everywhere. The law allows schools to keep their classes in the courtyard, in the hall or even in the classrooms without a gym, but students who are sweaty in sports in these cases have no opportunity to wash off and are uncomfortable with their dressing. This was after 2012. I would like to quote from the local newspaper of the local government of a municipality from 2014: I am happy to announce to the public that our settlement can enrich itself with a new gymnasium. The number of physical education classes and the capacity of the current gym have been assessed in connection with the introduction of daily physical education in our educational institution, which has been maintained by the state. On this basis, it became necessary to build a new gym. Our local government needs to do a number of preparatory work before the investment, so we need to secure the location of the new gymnasium. We really didn't have a lot of options to choose a place, considering that it should be at the center or near our educational institutions. The investment is carried out with 100% public support and assistance, with an expected cost of HUF 200 million. The gym is built with an interior of 18 times 30 metres, with changing rooms, showers and bathrooms, and according to preliminary information, it can be completed this year. As head of the board, I should like to thank you for this state role, trusting that our gymnasium to be built will be an important building in the service of both education and the settlement. This was published by the municipality of Sárrétudvari. I read this because I was very happy in my district that there was a gym in Sárrétudvari, only the picanteria of the case is that it is built in the settlement of the Fidesz MP, where Sándor Bodó lives, and nowhere else in our area there is no new gym. I find it outrageous that the people of Kaba have been fighting for the construction of a new gym for over 30 years and have not yet been able to achieve this. Last year, I tabled an amendment to the budget to allow Kaba to build a new gymnasium. The Fidesz majority government voted him down. I think that today we can achieve success in the construction of the gym in Hungary only if a district has a fidesz parliamentary representative. That's why I said in my question that kids in Kaba are worth less than kids in Sárrétudvar. I hope this case will be resolved sooner or later. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-02-16-324	In response to the last speech on the agenda, Ms Márta Demeter came forward with the title: "Promises gone." You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-02-16-325	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On the part of the MSZP we have stressed this many times, and we have been doing this for years, and I would like to stress that the renewal of the helicopter fleet is an extremely important task in Hungary today. We know that people's lives may depend on the ability of the police, the Hungarian Army and the rescue service helicopters to take off, save lives and do their job. Today, this is marginal, but this ability is given, but it is very dangerously close to the point where helicopters will be forced to land permanently, and they will not be able to perform their task. We've heard a lot of statements recently from the Ministry of Defence about the acquisition of helicopter fleet, and now you can hear specific numbers, amounts and numbers. I think it's definitely up to us to review the history of this thing for the past few years. We have heard from Csaba Hende several times after 2010 that we need re-arming and the Hungarian Army needs new helicopters. For years, however, they have done nothing to resolve this issue. I would like to stress here that any argument that comes from the government would have caught them off guard by the fact that sooner or later the helicopters of the Hungarian Defence Forces would be forced to land, because Fidesz was still in opposition when there was still public data, but Members could also see when the operating hours of the helicopters would expire. In 2013, the Ministry of Defence, quite rightly, presented a well-thought-out and professionally well-founded solution proposal to Members of Parliament's parties with a reasonable timetable, and this concept was supported and welcomed by all parties. Csaba Hende himself said that, with a complex approach in mind of national capabilities, optimal development should be carried out on a professional basis, in the most economical, transparent way possible, seeking a long-term solution. Well, he pointed out that in a transparent way, compared to this in spring 2014, only a few days before the elections, three Mi-8 T helicopters were purchased by completely excluding the public from a special procurement procedure. So the task itself is very urgent, the operating time of these three machines does not ensure a long-term solution to the problem. I think it was also extremely irresponsible for the Ministry of Defence to base the maintenance of helicopter capacity on the delivery contract of the Oboronprom, which was not realized, and did not meet this deadline. I think trusting such a thread with this thing was absolutely irresponsible. Unfortunately, I have the results for now. And it would be extremely urgent to buy a helicopter, but we can't see anything from the promises made by the Ministry of Defence, because the amount required for this is not visible in the defence budget in 2015, and I am getting a detachment from the Ministry of Defence to this day. But we can't ignore the fact that there are a lot of suspicious omens about the purchase that are supposed to be being prepared. For example, the Ministry of Defence is constantly embarrassing not to mention a public tender. We see that one of the potential candidates is constantly publishing ads. Orbán already said that the question was before the government several times, Csaba Hende, he said specific numbers, he mentioned the purchase of 30 helicopters, and a source of HUF 172 billion, which is not visible at all, not even a fraction. I asked the Minister a number of written questions about who the potential candidates might be, who would have even reported the participation informally. You failed to answer the question, despite the fact that the State Secretary Siklósi himself said in December 2014 that manufacturers are clearly very active, lobbying and showing their machines. Well, there's no coherence in the statements of pro-government representatives. So there are two options: the pro-government statements on procurement are either fictions and lies, or they have already decided that they are not sharing anything with Members or with the public. We expect you to continue to negotiate with the parliamentary parties, ensure maximum publicity, public tender so that the most economical and secure solution can be found. We need it very, very quickly. Thank you very much.
u2015-02-16-326	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Next Wednesday at 9:00 a.m., we will resume the meeting of the Parliament. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 10:50 p.m.]]
