u2015-06-12-0	Dear Parliament, Dear Members, The 41st day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and Mr Dezső Believer will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and everyone who is monitoring our work today. It is now up to LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement. a general debate on the draft law amending certain laws until closure, and in this context. The submission was made in T/4891. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Trócsányi, Minister of Justice, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, who will tell us about the pulpit.
u2015-06-12-1	Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The first word is obviously a thank you. I would like to thank the factions, the experts, the experts of the factions for monitoring and supporting our efforts to transform the enforcement system all the time. The executioner was never a popular figure in Hungary, probably not anywhere else. People in doubt were terrified of him, so much so that he became a real negative literary hero. The bohemians and artists used to make him look like Karinthy. For example, he was reported to have been playing pool in his regular place, the Hadi café, when a regular executioner appeared. Karinthy sighed, "I see you're going to retire from me, son." I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Emil Ábrányi wrote a one-act comedy titled The Executive, the presentation of which was - hardly by accident - a few years after the Parliament adopted the 1881 LX. Law on court execution. In this regard, however, the executor saves the poor widow from the wicked creditor, who, in return for the release of the execution, demands her daughter to marry. True, this will be the final case for the executor, for he will at the same time abandon his profession. The executor is not in a Hungarian folk song. For example, the judge comes to protest, / after the executioner /, takes away our bed /, our last bushel wheat. * However unpopular the executioner is, it is necessary. Because the alternative would be reprivatizing this function, collecting money, vigilanteing. The task is therefore to make implementation as human as possible, as effective as possible and as appropriate to the requirements of the rule of law. As honourable Members may know, since I took office as Minister of Justice, I have considered reform of judicial enforcement as one of my most important tasks. All this time, I felt that our enforcement system was in a kind of gray zone, that it was necessary to screen this activity and to develop a solution acceptable to everyone. In the legal profession, and perhaps beyond, everyone knows how our courts, prosecutors, lawyers, but only those who come into contact with this organisation know about the structure of the enforcement system and the functioning of the executives. When I was preparing to lead the judicial wallet, I had many valuable meetings, and that was when I found that I could not avoid the occupation of the enforcement system. I also knew that I was entering conflict areas, that I would inevitably offend interests, and that not everyone would be satisfied. The person who followed the news in the press could have clearly seen this. As one of the first stages of this reform process, following the compilation of a 100-point problem map, in April 2015, the government adopted the concept of amending the legislation on the status of independent bailiffs and the establishment and tasks of the Hungarian court executives. Based on the concept, the Ministry of Justice developed the 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement. Act T/4891 amending certain laws in this context. Bill No. 1. I would like to start the general debate on the bill by saying that a democratic rule of law cannot exist without effective justice. Implementation, the implementation organisation, is an essential element of judicial systems. Justice can only achieve its goal if judicial decisions can be enforced without voluntary performance. This is also essential to the achievement of the objective of strengthening public trust in justice in all possible ways set out in my ministerial programme. The quality of judicial enforcement has a significant impact on the effectiveness of law, trust in law, justice, and thus the functioning of the legal system as a whole. As the Constitutional Court pointed out in its Decision No 46/1991, the Court of Justice's constitutional values relating to the rule of law fall under the constitutional values of respect for judicial decisions and the execution of final judicial decisions, even at the cost of legal coercion. If the enforcement system is weak and easy to play, it will inevitably lead to an assessment of court decisions, legal uncertainty, a deterioration of the legal consciousness and a violation of the rule of law. Overcoming such a threat is clearly a constitutional interest, both from a citizen's point of view and from a social point of view, and from a state's point of view. It can therefore be stated that the proper functioning of the judicial enforcement system is in the general interest of the rule of law. In Hungary, implementation has a history of about 1100 years. It is a good indicator of the essential role of implementation that our kings have already issued decrees related to implementation in the early stages of statehood. We've been talking about coded enforcement law for almost 140 years. Along with modern private financial law, an Austrian model, a modern system of rules for judicial enforcement was also established in the years after the settlement. The first comprehensive implementation code is the 1881 LX on the enforcement procedure. It was a law. In this code, the Hungarian legislator divided the civil statute and the regulation of judicial enforcement. Even then, the legislator's aim was to simplify and speed up the procedure. Following World War II, in 1955, the Socialist Implementation Code, Decree-Law No 21 of 1955, was established. This defined the operation of enforcement until 1979, when Decree-Law No 18 of 1979 on judicial enforcement was established. The legislation may have been too pro-debted and the state pressure was imposed only in the final case. This has resulted in a strong deterioration of the morale of performance. During this era, the influence of Soviet law was in place, which considered private property to be a lower form of ownership and protected it in a weaker way. The procedures to be carried out for the benefit of private property were not of central importance, leading to a softening of the implementing rules. With such a history after the change of regime, LIII of 1994 on judicial enforcement was established more than twenty years ago. Law, the current Vht. This is the fourth comprehensive code of implementation of the Hungarian law, which, after the change of regime, changed the former enforcement procedural regulation and the organizational system at the level of principle. The 1994 Vht. set up an independent judicial enforcement institution as a general organisational form of judicial enforcement. In the new organisational structure, the judicial enforcement body was separated from the judicial organisation and the supervisory authority over the executive body was given to the Minister of Justice. For the purpose of carrying out control and administrative tasks related to the organisation of implementation, the Hungarian Chamber of Executives of the Court was established, which began its operation on the 1st of January 1995, for 20 years now. On the one hand, the Chamber was responsible for representing and protecting the interests of its members, i.e. executives, deputy executives and executive candidates, and on the other hand, for carrying out public tasks, primarily of an administrative nature, related to implementation. [[8.10]] However, after more than 20 years, we have to face the fact that the regime established in 1994 has not fully fulfilled the expectations of the implementation process or the implementation system. Even though Vht. has been substantially modified several times since its adoption. Based on the experience of the last 20 years, it can be concluded that an executive self-management organisation is not always able to act effectively against executives who are not acting in accordance with professional rules. There have also been legitimate criticisms of the use of funds allocated to public tasks related to implementation by chambers. The first step of the government is the 25/2015. By means of a government decree, he has installed office inspection tasks in connection with the control of independent court executioners at the Office of Justice. At the same time, the Ministry of Justice referred to in Article 3/2015. By means of a decree of the Ministry of Justice, he has changed the supervision of complaints against executives. The Office of Justice, as a public body separated from the enforcement body, can objectively assess any deficiencies in its enforcement function. On this basis, a new set of rules designed to investigate enforcement activities and to monitor complaints can fulfil its function. T/4891. Legislative bill No 1 aims to remedy the legal failure of the implementing organisation system, i.e. it does not affect the Vht. All of it. Implementation is a public task, but in the current system it is not a public authority, but it is done by authorised private profit-oriented offices. The Vht. a temporary solution between purely public and purely private enforcement, combining the advantages and not disadvantages of the two, can remedy the shortcomings of the system rules. For specific procedures, the efficiency characteristics resulting from privateisation should be maintained. However, with regard to control and administrative tasks, the specificities of state enforcement need to be taken more into account than is currently the case. Such an organisation may provide for more effective action against unworthy members of the executive post. It is necessary to establish a regulation that provides adequate means for the current government to force the organisation to function in the interests of implementation. The government therefore submitted a proposal to the National Assembly that leaves interest representation tasks in the hands of executive membership. However, it entrusts the administrative tasks relating to the implementing body, which are public tasks, to the department of the faculty under the authority of the head appointed by the Minister for Justice. On the basis of the proposal, therefore, the legislative public tasks relating to implementation will continue to be performed by the legal entity, the arm, composed of executives and deputy executives, but the organisational structure of this legal entity will be significantly modified by the proposal for the current legislation on the Chamber. The performance of public tasks related to implementation will be subject to direct State supervision on the basis of the proposal, by providing them through the Office, the department of the faculty of which is appointed by the Minister of Justice. According to the current rules, the Chamber finances the public tasks related to implementation mainly from the revenue from the general cost reduction paid by the applicants for implementation and ultimately borne by the debtors. In this connection, I would like to reassure everyone that the state does not wish to exclude from the system of implementation the amount of HUF billions currently available to the Chamber, primarily from this general cost ratio. However, we want to ensure that this money will continue to be used in the future in line with the legislative objective, i.e. in order to carry out public tasks related to implementation. Therefore, on the basis of the proposal, the Chamber's assets will be transferred to the faculty, which will be held within the limits of the law by the head of the department appointed by the Minister, the office. As regards further details, the bill significantly alters the conditions for institutional functioning as an executive. Due to the complex nature of the rules on enforcement procedures, a wide range of legal knowledge is needed for implementing procedures. That was his reason for the Vht. The 2012 amendment, which made the acquisition of university law a condition of appointment for the future. This amendment was necessary, but not sufficient, as the number of persons who do not have a legal degree within the executive faculty is still unacceptable. It is in the primary interest of implementation to increase the share of legally-qualified executives, so the proposal now also makes it mandatory for those executives who could enter the organisation without a legal degree. This amendment is subject to the provision of adequate preparation time for the relevant executives. This obligation should therefore be met by the executives by 2022. In order to ensure that this amendment does not cause supply disruptions in 2022 by the fact that, in the absence of a legal diploma, a large number of executives fall out of the system at the same time, the proposal also obliges executives to make good progress in studies and provides for the termination of their service if they fail to demonstrate that they continue their studies. Implementation procedures should continue to be as high as possible until the executive has obtained the degree of law, and therefore, on the basis of the proposal, these executives should employ a legally qualified employee during the transitional period until the legal degree has been obtained. Since the deputy executives themselves are entitled to carry out enforcement acts on behalf of the executing officer, they should also be subject to this higher requirement as a condition of appointment. Therefore, in the future, the proposal provides for a university degree in law for executives instead of secondary education as a condition for appointment. An important innovation in the proposal is that the appointment of executives will not be indefinite in the future, but will be for a fixed period of 7 years, and executives who want to remain executives at the end of the fixed time will be re-appointed by a tender. This amendment will encourage the executioner to operate in a professional and lawful manner by automatically establishing the continuity of the service by the Minister for Justice only two times when he has been subjected to a lesser disciplinary penalty. In this case, the executioner may continue the execution activity without a tender. The Vht. Its rules must ensure not only the professional and legal conduct of procedures, but also the continuous performance of tasks. In this area, the legislator at all times must establish rules to ensure that enforcement cases are dealt with continuously if, due to his absence, the executioner is temporarily unable to deal with matters. The proposal provides for a clear definition of the rules for the replacement staff and the procedure to be followed in the case of substitution to ensure continuous enforcement. Effective enforcement of disciplinary responsibility can be one of the keys to professional and legal enforcement. In this respect, the draft legislation is clear. Currently, the executive agency may be members of companies and non-executive natural persons. The same effective Vht. It also contains guarantee rules aimed at ensuring that the enforcement interest is respected in order to ensure that the Agency's operations are based solely on aspects which are of the interest to the enforcement activities, further tightening up is necessary. The proposal sets out a new basis for regulation for the executive agency as a legal person providing a framework for implementing activities. One element of this is that, in the future, the executive agency can only be executive members and, in addition to the enforcement activity, the firm cannot engage in business-like economic activities. Accordingly, they should comply with the new legislation by the end of the year. The essential elements of the proposal we have just presented are, therefore, strengthening the state control of the implementing body; tightening the conditions for appointment; bringing enforcement activity into a more transparent framework; more disciplined responsibility and regulation of the system of substitution. We hope that this will contribute to the implementation process in a professional, legal manner, with regard to the interests of both the debtor and the creditor, so that it is in the interest of full implementation and effective. [[8.20]] Of course, we cannot be satisfied with the implementation of organisational reform, but we need to take further steps to create conditions for cheaper, more efficient and faster implementation. In the second half of 2015, the Ministry of Justice will review Vht. It sets out its procedural rules and prepares a bill aimed at reforming it, but we will amend the Ministerial Decree on judicial enforcement tariffs before this bill is drawn up. The implementation-related fees and costs will benefit the parties involved in the implementation, of course by covering the costs that are essential for the functioning of the implementing organisation system, but only the costs that are essential and the executors' fair profit in the event of their effective procedures. I would like to thank the newly elected President of the Chamber for concluding a cooperation agreement between the Ministry of Justice and the Chamber, in which, at the end of May 2015, the Chamber declared its intention to cooperate with the Ministry of Justice in order to achieve an adequate level of regulation within the framework of the concept adopted by the Government. As you know, there has been a debate between us for many months, but I believe that the Ministry of Justice has managed to convince the newly elected leaders of the Chamber that their cooperation is necessary. Finally, allow me to draw your attention to the most important aspect, but often not assessed in accordance with its weight: the amendment of the legislation on implementation must always serve the fundamental and primary objective of implementation, the need to reimburse finalally awarded claims. A great German constitutional lawyer said that the closing stone of the rule of law is administrative justice. I would modify this if the public-law structure was the closing point for an effective, consistent, balanced and fair enforcement procedure. Without these, there is no public confidence in justice, ultimately in the rule of law. I trust that Members will support and adopt this bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-12-2	Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Zoltán Demeter, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-12-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I would like to say briefly about the bill before us, highlighting only a few aspects and its importance, and confirming what the Minister has said. As has been said, the government submitted T/4891 at the end of May. The main objective of which is to restore public trust in justice, simply to achieve this goal, is indeed essential to transform the implementation system. The aim of the proposal is also to establish a transparent implementation system within the framework of the concept adopted by the government, which provides a high-quality service for both the enforcement party and the debtor party, and which reduces the fees and other costs associated with the procedure. In my opinion, the Hungarian Chamber of Executives overvalued and interpreted its tasks of professional supervision with insufficient weight, so public opinion, that is to say, the perception of the everyday person, has deteriorated significantly, and instead of the obligation to execute final judgments, opposition to it has become the focus of interest. In this context, therefore, the most important objective is to strengthen the control powers of the State. The current draft constitutes a transition between fully state-sustainable and liberalised implementation. The mixed system would ensure that the state can guarantee the professionalism of implementation more effectively and with greater control. I would like to emphasise once again the need to reduce charges, which is of common interest, precisely so that the system functions more transparently and more clearly and is accessible to everyone. What I would also mention is that, on the basis of the proposal, public tasks relating to implementation would be carried out by the executive faculty, but the performance of public tasks would be subject to direct public supervision. The Chamber is therefore transformed into a faculty by succession, which also operates as a public body, represents executives, and is headed by the Presidency The members of the faculty are executives and deputy executives, who can participate in the work of the faculty's professional committees and benefit from the services provided by the faculty's office. It shall carry out implementation tasks through its official body and shall provide for the use of the general implementation cost allowance and the chamber's assets. His head shall be appointed by the Minister for Justice for seven years and shall be accountable to him. Ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would like to mention that the proposal also requires executives and their alternates to obtain a legal degree. One of the main functions of the faculty office will be to ensure that farming is maintained in accordance with the criteria of legality and expediency. The proposal allows for a new basis for professional monitoring so far, as well as the possibility of becoming a legal profession in an emerging system. I think that we all agree on the importance of all this, because it is also in the common interest of the country. I therefore respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the bill tabled. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-12-4	I now give the floor to Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2015-06-12-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I think that I will not reveal a secret by saying that the MSZP faction does not support the bill before us, because we have already explained on several occasions - and that is the main reason, but of course I will discuss it in a bit more detail, although it will not be long; I would not like to go into the details because we have conceptual problems with this proposal - that we do not want and will not support any hybrid system. Allow me one more thought, Minister, about the negotiation. I would just like to say that there is no reason why that Member of Parliament did not participate from us, because we believe that a five-party dialogue is a political genre, but a briefing is not. I think that it should be made clear that Minister wishes to discuss a bill with the political groups on a five-party basis, or he just wants to inform the parliamentary parties of what he intends to submit. Since it was an invitation to provide information, we understood it that way and took it seriously. I would also like to ask the Minister with respect - I did not make a statement on this at the time, but we have thought about it - that such discussions, to be more precise: after such a briefing, I do not think it is fortunate that the wallet is trying to suggest that everyone agrees with this proposal. We don't agree with that. For my part, I am happy to take part in negotiations in advance where a substantive influence can be exercised on a draft law, but I am reluctant to attend a discussion where I will only be informed in advance of what will happen. [[8.30]] It should be pointed out that this is already an amendment to the many implementing bodies. Back to the discussion, Mr. Minister. it is quite different when it informs Members of the concept. There, of course, an information note is appropriate, since we are not talking about a specific bill to be submitted there, but a concept of how the government will want to develop the relevant text. Obviously, if we know this, then we can put forward proposals to amend the specific text in this respect, and I would only ask that the two genres be clearer next time. So, the amendment concerning the many executive organisations was made, and even point 10 of the legislative programme, if I have read it correctly, was designed to amend the rules of the Chamber of Justice, so it is not to be abolished. The Ministry has held to this until now, and although we did not like the series of changes from a professional point of view, it still held the executive chamber, if it was placed under very close supervision by a ministerial commissioner, but after all, the Chamber remained, i.e. a system influenced by the government, but still independence was maintained at some level. I have already said that it would be right, in my view, to create clear relations in the context of implementation. Everyone agrees, and I have said several times that the enforcement system needs to be reformed, and I think that there is no debate between us in this Parliament. What is more - and I am pleased to hear from the Minister about his speech - there will soon be plans to reform other rules on implementation and to modify tariffs, because I think that if the structure is problematic, the exponential problem is how much money people have to pay for this service. There is, of course, a need for executives, and I respect their work as a lawyer for me, and I acknowledge that this activity is necessary, and I also understand that in the same way as the tax authority inspector or the BKV inspector is not a popular job, but it is obviously necessary, and I also agree that there is a need for as many qualified executives as possible, so that obtaining a legal diploma is conditional upon the government, that is acceptable to me and it is a good thing. I have to say that the biggest problem in recent years has been the fact that the additional cost, which, in addition to the real capital debt of their debt, has made the situation of people in serious difficulties, whether in foreign exchange lending or in other ways, impossible to the extent that it has actually forced them into debt slavery and in a completely hopeless situation. The fact that I don't want to tell you the exact figures, I can tell you the order of magnitude, several people wrote to me, and I can roughly tell you that there were cases where, after a loan of HUF 4-5 million, HUF 20-25 million was finally demanded from him; this included, of course, interest and extremely high costs of implementation. So if the Minister wishes to deal with this quickly, it is very welcome and good. Returning to this bill, I do not know whether you have been in an administrative meeting or whether the president of NAIH has been able to comment, because we have not been able to read this from the proposal or from the documents surrounding it. Once again, the biggest problem I see with the proposal is that it does not create clear responsibilities. For example, if you are not satisfied with the activities of a lawyer and you criticize it, it is clear and clear to everyone that it is the Chamber of Laws that is responsible for the activities of lawyers - not including the crimes now, of course, because that is a different subject - and it is the responsibility of the bar to do its work fairly, normally, in accordance with the interests of citizens. Everyone also knows that if, say, there is a problem with the court organisation system, then the President of the OBH is clearly responsible today, and the President of the Curia is responsible for the operation of the court organisation. When we look at, say, executive activity, citizens will certainly not be able to clearly identify, on the basis of this law, who is responsible for this operation. That is why I am not in favour of this kind of mixed system, even if the Minister has assured us that it will only benefit from it, i.e. to combine the advantages of the private and the public sector with this proposal. I think about it a little bit, you know what they say: a giant, a dwarf, a giant, or a four-season rubber, a better winter rubber, a summer and a summer; so it would have been nice to have a clear relationship so that we could leave this activity in the private sphere or move it to the state, and then the minister would bear the 100% responsibility for it, and everyone knows and sees it. What I see is that the executive faculty, which you are about to set up instead of the Chamber, is that despite the election of the Chamber's leadership, and that the Minister is satisfied with the current Chamber's leadership, this faculty will be as it would have been at the time, on the basis of the original plans, as the National Judicial Council would have been: it seems, but it does not have any real powers. The National Judicial Council also had no jurisdiction before the government was forced to reinstate about 80 percent of the judicial reform. There was such a body, but, let's say, the Disciplinary Board had the power to elect its members. I think you'd have the same authority here as the executive staff. On the other hand, and what will exercise the real powers will be the office, above which, if I interpret it correctly, even a ministerial commissioner can be appointed. And I definitely don't see any point in that, because both are appointed by the Attorney General, and they both answer to the Attorney General. If you are not satisfied with the Registrar, then replace him, but I think it is unnecessary to appoint a ministerial commissioner to take over his powers, and I think it is unnecessary in itself in the law, but it will exercise the real powers. Therefore, I fear and fear that above this, as Minister said, not too popular activity, where there will be disputes and repulsive situations, there will be, of course, when, let us say, a family of multiple children is evicted from his apartment, there will be some when an executive has to resolve humanly and emotionally very delicate situations, then it can be said, please, here is the executive arm. And the government is pushing the responsibility a little further away from itself; although, by the way, it is exercising real control powers. That's why I don't think this system is right. So I'm gonna say again, I think we should think about putting him in the state's jurisdiction - I'm not far from this solution, I'll tell you the truth. At the Fraction level, we have not reached a concrete position on this, because at the moment we considered it unnecessary, and I would, for my part, be in favour of the state taking full responsibility in this situation. But I want you to take it all over. Then there's no need for the executive staff. To sum up, Minister, and for this reason I do not wish to go into the details of the proposal, I do not consider this system to be correct conceptually, and it would be worth reconsidering, if you are going to become more and more a Commissioner of Ministers, Chambers, now executives, greater powers for the Minister, greater powers for the Office, then let us put an end to the process, then make it a state authority. I would suggest this, or leave it as clearly as, let us say, the bar of lawyers operate on the same market and in a self-organised manner, and, of course, in this respect, if anyone commits an irregularity or even a crime, then the appropriate authorities of the State can act against it. So, we're gonna have to reschedule this hybrid system, unfortunately we can't support it for the reasons I've been telling you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[8.40]]
u2015-06-12-6	I now give the floor to György Rubovszky, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-06-12-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear Parliament, As early as 2012, Christian democrats tried to negotiate on the basis of a number of complaints received in order to eliminate anomalies related to implementation. We have had countless consultations with various civil society organisations to remedy the complaints received. We went to the point where we tabled a separate motion for a revision of the regulation at that time in 2013. As a result of this regulation, internal control has been increased. We have managed to introduce the principle of graduality, raise the fine against executives to HUF 5 million, and we have certainly created relative security in order to prevent illegal damage to the assets of the debtors under enforcement. In this regard, it is the case with Article 14/1994. The Justice Ministerial Order, which concerned the remuneration of implementation, has also been amended. We considered that part success. I would like to mention that the Judicial Committee has also tabled an amendment to the implementing law to Parliament, which, thank God, was accepted by the Parliament. This was trying to settle certain rules, the rules before the next general meeting. We did not see much of the results of this legislative experiment, but in any case it was reassuring, according to the news which had already been leaked at the time, that the Minister was seriously engaged in the transformation of the whole implementation system. This bill was also tabled in May. I'd like to stop here for a moment. Before the introduction of the law, there was a five-party consultation in the Ministry of Justice called information by Member Bárándy, where, as far as I know, the Socialist Party was only with an observer, there was no MP present. I would like to state as a fact that the arguments that we made there against the proposal issued at that time were accepted by the Ministry and incorporated into the material. So there was no unnecessary appearance at all, and the whole process at that time was an incredible big step for today's success. In my view, apart from the Socialist Party, all the other groups will support this because we have also seen the various proposals made by LMP in the text of the law, so in my opinion, the Socialist Party wanted to explain why it would not come, why it would not cooperate, and why it would stand up here and share the senses. With all due respect, it's very strange to compare the work of the executive chamber and the bar. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I did not do that.]] The Bar Association is a body created by completely private individuals, where there is no state task. A significant part of the implementation is the fulfilment of public obligations. Here, I believe that the chamber or faculty, whatever I call it, the municipal body that is at the head of it, must be subject to increased public supervision, because it carries out a public obligation. I think it's the simplest thing in the world. I respectfully welcome the current bill, and I am very pleased that there is virtually one control over executive activity by at least having to be reviewed every seven years. Therefore, if and if the executioner is renitant during his term of appointment and accumulates disciplinary penalties or receives more serious disciplinary penalties for strict written reprimands, the extension shall not take place. I also welcome the fact that the appointment is subject to legal qualifications, which, I think, is earlier, but now it is created the possibility for executors who have already been appointed to obtain a legal degree by 2022. And I also think it is very important that the law itself regulates the procedure where studies from enrollment are constantly monitored by the office, so that it is possible to monitor whether a diploma can be obtained by the end of the deadline or if the fiasco is first established. This is a very serious step forward. I also consider that the amendment to the rules of disciplinary action will benefit from this whole procedure. I think it is very justified and I thank the Ministry very much for the step and opportunity to agree with us, now it doesn't matter what name it is to be called in a discussion. I also thank you for the fact that, even during spring, early spring, my request for amendment was published in the law. With all due respect, I believe that this law is ready and complete, and that the opinion of all the Members who are willing to agree is reflected in the material, so I also ask what my fellow Member Demeter has done to please this House to adopt the bill after the debate. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-12-8	I now give the floor to Gábor Staudt, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-06-12-9	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Minister, A general debate in principle could begin with a suggestion of what I have to say. I would like to start by saying this because here the Socialist Party has repeatedly asked whether it is worth taking part in the negotiations or not, or - and I am addressing this not only to my fellow Member Gergely Bárándy, but also here several speeches in the last few days on which I had the opportunity to be here, suggesting or pointing out that the socialists like to say no to everything, even if, say, the law which they are submitting changes the current legislative environment in the right direction. I am not just talking about this law, and they make up everything - as in the old Fidesz-MSZP system - when, if one presents something, the other has to reject it immediately, and if it changes who is in the government, who is in the opposition, then it can also be played. I think that Hungarian politics has gone beyond that, and people are happy about that. People are terribly sick of - and I have had enough of it until I've dealt with politics - why it's not possible to evaluate a proposal in substance and take a meaningful part in making it better. By the way, the discussion in the Ministry of the Interior was another topic, the subject of the e-card, the new identity card, and the problem was that it was too late to speak, which is true that it was too late from the Ministry, but we still went to the meeting and incorporated our proposals on the issue of fingerprints. Here, with regard to the Ministry of Justice, where the consultation took place before the submission, the fact that we now call it a briefing or consultation can, of course, be linked to this, but we feel that we are leaving, and then we will find out what the genre will be like. [[8.50]] Thank God, our proposals - and thank the Minister for that - have been incorporated. Several of our proposals have been incorporated into the draft before us. This does not mean that we are not yet able to make criticisms, and it does not mean that it is absolutely necessary to take these steps in the position of the Jobbik government. It means, however, that we will support this proposal. We will support it because it represents progress compared to the current situation. I think that, as a responsible Member of Parliament, this should be considered in particular. I will also tell you what are the proposals that have been included in the material in the context of our previously formulated amendments. Then I would like to mention the important points that will change the current legal environment. The Hungarian court executive faculty is transformed and the chamber is converted into an executive faculty. In part, we consider this to be symbolic, although there are real problems with the current operation, but in fact the operation is only partly changing, although I understand that it also involves a renewal and can have news value or a message value for the change of the name. Actually, there's no problem with that, but even Cardinal change won't come from this. We said that a long time ago, and we're glad that he's been installed. I would also like to say here that there may be some uncertainty, given that I do not think it is clear in the material that a degree or an absolutorium must be obtained by 2022. Maybe we should clarify that. We have tabled an amendment to this proposal and should start until 31 December 2017, which is the deadline to start. Although if someone pushes the start after that, they're gonna have to finish it in five years. Here, it may be possible to take the start earlier, or it is also a good suggestion that it is necessary to justify that he actually goes to the university, so it cannot be done that someone says that I will retire in, say, seven years, and then ask me for it. Then we can't, because the deadline had run out by then, but the executioner has already retired. Then, according to Jobbik's recommendation, the extension of disciplinary liability was changed to six months. That's the subjective deadline. And if these six months are enough, it'll come out. It could be longer, but it's definitely longer than three months. In the case of training, on the one hand, we are pleased that not only legal university education is required, but also training and further training can be organised. Here I also pointed out in the Ministry that this would be good if it were not an extra cost burden just to be paid, and otherwise the provision of useful knowledge is secondary, or rather the aim of collecting funds - we have seen such courses - would dominate, would not be good, but if this is a useful, accountable and accountable training, then this might even be a good one. Then at another point - I am referring to the executive exam - this is, on the one hand, a good thing to prescribe, although we believe that for them it does not necessarily have to be required. I could say that if someone, say, is qualified as a judge or prosecutor, because he has a legal exam or similar qualifications, for which he could be appointed a judge, then that should be enough for an executive. Here, we may need to accept the legal exam, although we are glad that the requirements are very strict. Then what has also been tightened up to our proposal, but we do not consider it sufficient or sufficiently elaborate, is to apply. It is a question of applying for the appointment of an executive first, but if a person has an expiry date and does not commit a variety of offences, does not commit ethical offences or does not have a weight, then his appointment is automatic. In this case, too, I would certainly do some sort of consideration or evaluation of his work. There can be a new application here, and I don't think it's devilish if a new application is to be submitted. But let's just say, if you did your executive job properly, you'd obviously have an advantage, so you could take it into account. But just because you are not severely convicted of an ethical disciplinary offence, I think that in itself is not enough for an automatic appointment, because it may not be that you are doing your job in such a way that there is no candidate who would do this job better if necessary. One important aspect here is that the best people, the best professionals and the most honest people should be appointed, and this could be a continuous thing if there was a little competition. Then the issue of ethics policy came into the material, but it also said that a violation of the faculty's guidelines could be a disciplinary offence. Here, I still do not feel the faculty's guidance to be sufficiently precise or with sufficient legal power to be properly accountable for this. A code of ethics is more like that. So let's have a more detailed policy, which we're going to have very hard to enforce, rather than, let's say, a disciplinary offence or a violation of guidelines can be prosecuted for disciplinary misconduct. I would like to mention one or two points, and before that I would like to mention one point, which is also included in the material, the increase in liability insurance, I feel that we had an important proposal, and the Ministry supported it and built it in. At the end, however, I would like to make one or two improvements, not only in the present proposal, but also in the long term. It has come up, and we have not seen it in this material, but we hope that this will be on the agenda in the autumn, for example, the possibility of prepayment of costs. So anyone who might not be able to pay it, because, let's say, during the lawsuits, his financial opportunities are completely exhausted, should have the opportunity to get the demands after all. This billions of forints, for example, could be used for this, which was accumulated at the Chamber. Then, in my opinion, it is also important to motivate executives to implement small amounts of claims, as we see that in many cases, because they act as companies, there is no motivation to collect small amounts, or when they see that there is nothing to collect, or even the return on their labour costs is not guaranteed, they often, with a little exaggerating, do not move to do anything. Then it was said from the Minister that it is a public task - indeed it is true - to implement, but it is done by profit-oriented offices, and obviously we are going a little towards the hybrid system. I'm also a little skeptical with that, I have to say, but in practice, we'll see how it works. The only thing I agreed with the MSZP's statement was that it would rather be a state system. We agree on this, although you may support it, my fellow Member, Barándy, but I have a feeling that if there were to be a proposal for a state system, the management or faction management of the MSZP would not be in favour of the proposal. You may want to stand professionally, but I am skeptical that the MSZP, let's say, would support a state system in a final vote; but obviously, we cannot know how such a vote would turn out at this time. But I'm sure profit-oriented has made the system a little distorted. For example, I say a practical problem: often cases are not combined, if they should, say, a parking fine, the same enforcement requester and the debtor, but more labour charges can be charged if they consider this to be, say, twenty cases, and otherwise, this is illegal, because the cases should be combined. [[9.00]] Then the question of ex ante execution, which would mean that if someone proves that he has a claim that he would like to implement and pay an amount, then he should have the opportunity to have the debtor's assets or what they might be subject to enforcement, to have a view of it, because at the moment he often pays or advances the fees, and then it turns out that the debtor has nothing. And then the executioner gets into a bad situation, because he paid everything, prepaid everywhere, paid the fees to the court, and then he says I wouldn't have done it, because I can't do anything. Then the remuneration will change, Minister said. We are pleased with this, especially because the number of cases has multiplied in recent years, and the value of cases has increased, but the number of executives and the rules on their remuneration have not changed, so the revenues of the executives have increased to an extremely high degree because of this. By the way, this is also true in the numbers, and now there are between 500 and 600 thousand cases a year, a new case that, if I understand correctly, the exact number may be better provided by Minister, but I understand that this is already around 500 to 600 thousand. Then the change in tariffs is also important because many times - and I have already said this, but again - the remuneration of the enforcer is in the way of the agreement. This means that if the debtor and the applicant for execution agree, say, someone owes the bank 30 million forints, but the bank says that if you give me 20 million forints, dear debtor, then let's forget each other, and the enforcer, let's say he didn't do anything in the case, will just get the case before him; then he will say that the case is not over, as long as all my labour fees, expenses and all my other expenses - I add, even if he didn't work with it, the fee will not be paid, and that the debtor may not be able to pay it anymore. You may still be able to collect 20 million forints if I stay with this example, but you will no longer be able to pay the executive's labor fee - without otherwise doing anything - on the case. Mr. President, may I have a moment's extension? [[The president's nodding.]] And then I can close it. Thank you very much. So he didn't do anything on the case, he's lining up for his fee, and that's why he can't come to an agreement between the debtor and the enforcement officer. This is a very bad problem and needs to be eliminated, as the priority is to ensure that the calculations, demands and interests of the debtor and the applicant for implementation prevail. So if a debtor and an enforcer can say thank you very much, we can agree, there is a solution that both of us feel that we can get out of the case, then it should not be an enforcer who prevents all of this. And I also know that those abuses must also be prevented if, let's say, the executor has actually worked on the case, but in the end, let's say, the parties would reduce the amount of debt to a tenth degree, in a speculative manner, so that it cannot be avoided, but the law knows the possibility of introducing more flexible rules in the legislation, even by eliminating speculation, and better adapted to life. So that's what I wanted to do. I wish we could talk about the problem for a long time. We will support this proposal, but we look forward to the autumn package and, of course, we do not see this as a solution. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-12-10	I now give the floor to Andras Schiffer, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-06-12-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Although we have serious criticisms about the solution contained in the bill, after the government has moved in the right direction, as promised, to transform the enforcement market, and therefore the bill will be voted by the LMP, we will support the bill, and I would also like to thank the Minister for the correct consultation that has been carried out here on several occasions in connection with the implementing law. I would like to join in what my fellow Member Staudt mentioned in his introduction; so, contrary to the game that has taken place here in the previous 20 years, the LMP also has the view that an opposition party is trying to move forward with its proposals to solve a problem. For us, it is not an example that we should be involved in proposals only because of the fact that we are a serious opposition party, for example, because this is also a demonstration of how serious we are. It is a serious opposition party that can propose solutions to a problem. The LMP has done so in the amendment of the previous implementing law, and we are pleased to see that our proposals, such as the requirement for legal qualifications of officials, have been incorporated into the bill. I think that this is the responsible, constructive opposition attitude, not what Fidesz has produced between 2002-2010 and since then by the Socialist Party. I think that if we are talking about the area of enforcement law, the government should, on the other hand, account for one thing in front of this House, namely why, despite the two-thirds majority, the second Orbán government has not touched this law, why it has not touched the reform of the implementation system. I know that Mr Trocsányi was not the minister at the time, he was not a member of the government, but Viktor Orbán was also a government, and when, in 2009-2010, the opposition Fidesz promised to solve the foreign exchange credit crisis - which, by the way, was practically four years late, and he still has not solved it, as he has seriously fooled the foreign exchange lenders with the forint - this promise not only projected the settlement of the situation of foreign exchange taxpayers in 2009, but also the elimination of the anomalies of the implementation system. After all, the crisis that was culminating during the Gyurcsány government and especially the Bajnai government was not just about having a macroeconomicly unsustainable situation because of foreign exchange-based lending, but also about how the implementation system makes families relentlessly land-runner and deprived of the most fundamental remedies. For this reason, the second Orbán government should have proposed a solution to the reform of the implementation system in addition to the financial package. We also said this in the summer of 13, when our fellow Member Tarnai had already tabled a Vht. amendment, we had already asked the judicial wallet why the second Orbán government was delaying. We need to see that in 1994, when the parliamentary assembly at that time was LIII. The law, the law on enforcement, was passed, this law was conceived in the same overworked neoliberal view as so many other laws in the '90s. Thus, while judicial enforcement is nothing more than the enforcement of the state's will, from the moment a public actor, a judge, on behalf of the Republic, under the crest of the Republic, pronounces a judgment, even if he declares it in a civil suit between private persons, from the moment the judgment was born and final, the seal of the State will be on it, it is no longer a matter of enforcing a private interest. At least that's what we think. Therefore, his philosophy in itself is unacceptable as LIII. The law, which privatized this in line with the age spirit at that time, also privateized this, because then the false left liberal governments believed that it would be a redemption for Hungary, that if everything that could be moved would be privateised and everything would be solved by the free hand, the market would solve everything. I think that there are typical public tasks, such as law enforcement and the execution of judicial judgments. I think it was deeply irresponsible to take judicial enforcement out to the private sector in 1994 and to take control out of government and justice and move it to a public body. This was irresponsible, and this irresponsible enforcement law had two consequences. One is that they are virtually uncontrollable private contractors, a virtually uncontrollable public body did what it wanted in the enforcement market. This resulted in the fact that when the foreign exchange crisis made it a mass, that families became a land-runner, the corruption and corruption of this enforcement market became a daily reality for people. The other consequence, which is also the result of this crazy neoliberal law of implementation, is that we have actually come to the point that, despite the fact that there are such lawsuits in a civil case, even though a simple man is successfully prosecuting a civil suit, in order to obtain his money, additional capital is needed. [[9.10]] In English, there was a system of enforcement that favored the rich. An implementation system has been established so that those who are wealthy can enforce their will, who have nothing, and who are worth so much. This was the view of this law of enforcement. But it is also important to emphasise this because before we divide the pages here, it may be possible to conclude that the 1994 LIII. for law and for the establishment of a system of enforcement that, instead of enforcing the state's will, private contractors were practically free to abuse themselves as self-executors of the court, and there was corruption in the enforcement market, and for the fact that, in practice, material power, capital background, wealth had decided that a person could obtain a final judgment, so socialist judicial governments had a heavy responsibility. The second Orbán government is primarily responsible for its delay over the past four years. The concrete proposal is finally a move, but the solution would be to put a new enforcement law before Parliament by the Minister of Justice, which would be the solution and not just because of the organisation system. If a new civil order is being prepared, it would be logical to bring a new enforcement law before the House at the same time as the new civil order, because I think it is quite simply a dogmatic aspect of the enforcement procedure and of the rules of procedure that can hardly be separated. The other reason why we need a new enforcement law is that we need to clear the air. This is a significant step forward in this bill; I note that the LMP is still not a fan of the proliferation of arms and order, which is a popular occupation of Fidesz, and this is a significant step forward. The solution, however, would be to restore the pre-94 system, the system which, by the way, I note, also worked under the Antall administration, that the executive arm operates under the justice system. The OBH, we need to get the bailiffs to justice. It is necessary to put an end to what was in the interests of some private entrepreneurs and who knows what kind of network of relationships they had, and to deprive the ordinary people, the poor people, the less affluent people, of actually enforcing what a court has decided for their benefit. Therefore, the LMP supports the need to go further along this path and restore the state of enforcement under the justice system. In English: you have to eliminate the situation that, as self-employed, bailiffs can do whatever they want. It must therefore be said that judicial enforcement, the enforcement of state will, must be nationalised. If anything, so to speak, sui generis state competence, it's precisely the enforcement of state will. We are not talking about arbitrations or offshore courts, we are talking about the fact that under the coat of arms of the Republic of Hungary a judgment is issued and how it can be enforced. Above all, we need maximum state control - not necessarily government, but state control - and we believe that this should be the task of the National Court of Justice. The third reason why it would be important to have a new law of enforcement is that, in particular, when after ten years of delay and five years after Peter Harrach's involvement here in Parliament, the Christian Democratic People's Party will soon establish a law on private bankruptcy, this Parliament is now discussing private bankruptcy, again a new institution that will break the framework of the current implementing law. This is also one reason why it would be necessary for the 1994 LIII. law, which has done a lot of damage to this country, we throw it out in the trash, and bring in a new, responsible enforcement law, which can also handle the private institution, even because, as workers' poverty grows, unfortunately, there will be more and more people in this country who will meet with the enforcement procedure, and who will either have a solution from the private failure institution, or who will have to give access to the enforcement procedure. It must be seen that the situation was quite different in 1994 when the spirit of the then Vht. was conceived in the House, and the situation is quite different now. Today, there is a government policy that constantly condemns, for example, so-called middle class people working in the public sector to slip down into the poverty of workers, which is why, even if there is a new legal institution, private failure, a new enforcement law is needed to deal with this social crisis. With the tool that the judicial wallet is now choosing, all we have is a mule solution or, as has been said, a hybrid solution. I remember a little bit what happened with the church law, that there are good goals, to be welcomed goals, and then the National Assembly chooses a tool that is perfectly inappropriate to replace the goals. Our problem is, after the government is still halfway around on the nationalization of the enforcement system, it's gonna be practically a smear of responsibility. There is a faculty that performs public tasks, but it does this public service through a ministerial institution, a minister's office. This isn't right. It's not right. We need clear institutions; we're talking government responsibility or private responsibility, public body responsibility. There are serious public-law risks in this, and it is also possible that such a hybrid solution, if it occurs, will bleed to death either in an international forum or in the Constitutional Court. That is why we are living with the suspicion suit, so to speak, that this fight will not be the end, and the government will be forced to bring another solution to this House soon, because this situation will be difficult to maintain in the long term, so that there is such a semi-communicative arm at the same time, but on the other hand there is a ministerial responsibility. It is necessary to pour clear water: it must be said that the Hungarian Parliament is breaking up with the taboo that judicial enforcement is autonomous, and that the state gives the various private sector actors the right to enforce the state's will. No. We need to take account of the damage this implementation system has caused to Hungarian people, the damage it has done to the families in debt over the past decades, and the government must say that it wants to break up with this system. The problem is that if, because of the anomalies in the implementation system, we, say, want to interpell Minister Trocsányi, he can easily escape responsibility - the Speaker can easily say that he rejects the interpellation, because then the arm will be responsible. It is unclear, on the basis of the bill, where the limits of competence are between the minister, the ministerial actors and the quasi-government faculty. That is why we believe that there is a need for a clear state responsibility, that the Chamber should be abolished and that the sausage that has so far marked the enforcement market should be abolished. The Parliament, the judiciary, the government have a responsibility to ensure that in Hungary the state will, the state will expressed by the judicial judgment, can be enforced, and that all Hungarians have equal chances of enforcing claims regardless of their financial situation. This is what we are asking of the Hungarian Government. A first step in the right direction is the current law, but it is far from sufficient. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt applauds.]]
u2015-06-12-12	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now it's time for the regular speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2015-06-12-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond in a few words to what has just been said. Firstly, I would like to say to Mr Rubovszky that, of course, we both know the difference between lawyership and enforcement. I brought up the Hungarian Bar Association as an example, and I could have brought the medical chamber in this way. [[9.20]] I wanted to make it clear that there is a chamber system and that, of course, there may be a whole state system, and I do not think the mixture of this is good. I do not want to compare legal activities with executives, although I note that the lawyer performs a similar state- or at least state-like task, a public task when acting as a defender in criminal matters, so this is a completely different legal activity than, say, a contract between two parties. The other one, and believe me, isn't it... how did Congressman Rubovszky put it? - you're looking for a knot in the cafeteria. Not for two reasons. One: if I receive a notice from the Minister that this is a briefing, then I take it seriously. If this is a negotiation, I'll take it seriously. Another question is, of course, that one also decides which one he goes to, but if I am notified of information, it is not conciliation. And those are not words of a relative nature, Congressman. That's all I wanted to say. And I also explained precisely on the table that a prospectus is absolutely appropriate for a concept; I think that a bill needs to be discussed. These two things are not the same, and you and Minister probably know it. Maybe you didn't think about that when you sent the notice. The other one. I say to my fellow Members that there is no need to explain why they support the government - do so if you like it. I don't care if they become outside sponsors, it's none of my business. However, let us not be told that we have an opposition attitude that the Fidesz has shown during our eight - year government, for example. I cannot account for the number of legislative proposals supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party in recent years, Mr President. I had, I think, the shortest speech I've ever had in the lead speaker, when I said so much about a bill tabled by Fidesz, that it's okay, thank you very much, and I sat down. And we voted for it. Just yesterday or the day before yesterday - I don't know when there were votes - we voted, if I remember correctly, on two pro-government proposals. It is not true, Congressman, that we would be an opposition party that has neither a proposal nor a supporter of what is right or right. That's not true. We support what is good and right, and what we agree with and which we agree with, we do support it, and we will support it in the future, because we also believe that a opposition party must be constructive on the one hand, that good proposals must be supported, but at the same time, Member, it cannot be an external supporter of the government. It is also the task of an opposition party to come forward with a proposal with which it is conceptually opposed, not to support it, even if there are provisions of progress that you are talking about. And, by the way, in parentheses: I also spoke, because, for example, I think that requiring a legal degree is a step in the right direction. But what I do not understand, and it is difficult for Mr Schiffer to follow his attitude and his thoughts sometimes, because he said what I said as a criticism: he said that this system - I quote from you - was not clear about the limits of competence, that the state system should be supported, not this hybrid solution, that government responsibility should be made clear. Congressman, that's what I'm talking about. That's why we don't support this bill, because that's not what it's about. If that's what it's about, we'd support the bill. Now you're going to tell me why it's wrong, conceptually, you're going to add some of the arguments that are actually good in the law, and that's why you're willing to support a law that is conceptually unacceptable or considered a bad system. It's hard for me to understand. I'll tell you the truth. [[Dr. András Schiffer: I'll support you in a moment.]] That's why I'm not doing it. That's why I'm not doing it. I am not looking for a knot, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot count it on one hand - President Rubovszky probably remembers - how many times I have said in the debate on previous legislative proposals that we do not want to support such a mixed system; either here or there or one or another. Correct and, as Congressman Schiffer has said, clear limits of competence as laid down in the law. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to stress that I am neither arguing for the current sustainability of the system nor representing any opposition that is looking for a knot in the kakaban, nor is it, but no one expects an opposition party to support a proposal with which we do not agree. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-12-14	I now give the floor to Minister of Justice László Trocsányi.
u2015-06-12-15	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, After I had to leave, I wanted to ask you to speak because this is how I consider it fair to be able to respond to what has been said. I think that the Minister of Justice is obviously part of the executive power, so he must think of this responsibility, but I can only say that the Minister of Justice cannot avoid responsibility, so when it comes to how this system will work, then the Minister of Justice can be asked what he has done, why he has done it, and his responsibility, interpelability, I think is clear. If this system were to go to OBH, then its interpellation would actually be questionable. Of course, this is a very difficult question of what kind of system is a good system. Now I don't want to do a legal comparison here, because there are different systems in Europe, so there is a Latin system, there is a German system. We made a decision in Hungary in 94; I fully agree with András Schiffer that in 94 the system that we brought back then, for the environment at that time, we privatize everything, we sell everything, because the state is not a good farmer, and the rest of it was fine. It is probably true - I must add - that state implementation was not effective, it was not appropriate. I don't want to go into his reasons, the little tricks of the Kádár system, and the different, if I may say so, working methods, and probably this state stuff - I'm sorry for using that term - probably wasn't good, so we can justify the decision of 94 why it was necessary. But one thing is certain that in 94 we made the mistake - and must be self-critical - that we thought that the Minister of Justice should be given the same supervision as the control over the law of the chambers of lawyers. So the Attorney General checks the legality of the regulations, and that actually complied with this thing. I think that we have made a conceptual mistake, the mistake that it is okay to be private, because it was even a dating spirit, but the state could not have left the control, from the control that comes from the state's task of implementing it, even the state could have done it - I completely agree with that. But we also have to face the fact that if this had been nationalized by the Minister of Justice, in a month's time I would be asked why the implementation had collapsed, because there is practically no executor who does it, who doesn't know how to do it, we need a whole new one. Please, we have to start from what we have, from the current system, and that's what I have to cook from. Now, how can I cook from this? There's a way I can cook in charge of taking over custody. The Minister of Justice, not I necessarily, has taken a huge responsibility for the current Minister of Justice, because he will be the Interpelable One, which is why what is happening. From this point on, the office inquiry will be taken over by the head appointed by the Minister of Justice, and the office investigation will carry out the audit of cases, case records and all day-to-day tasks, where an apparatus should be established, which will quasi-control the executioner. The point is that the enforcer must feel that the state is around his neck, and in the event that he doesn't do this properly, he doesn't have to wait seven years, but he can be said goodbye earlier. So if we can provide him with this thing, then we can actually achieve a double system. On the one hand, the obligation of executives to show empathy towards debtors, because it is a fundamental social expectation, I agree; but implementation must also be effective, because whoever is a creditor and wants to obtain his money is in the interest of getting the money. So I have to think in a double system to be empathetic at the same time, two to be effective. This framework should ensure that this system works. [[9.30]] My point of view and my belief, I believe, is that this system, which we have done, is a system that places a great task on the state, a great responsibility, and, at the same time, for the executives, there is Damocles' sword, that I ask you nicely how it should work. As far as the awards are concerned, I fully agree with Mr Staudt, and I have said this all along, too, so that it cannot happen in Hungary that someone cannot virtually start implementation because he does not have the money. You can get personal legal aid from the court, but you can't get it from enforcement. That is why it was important to keep this amount in the implementation system, but to have a control over its spending, to create a basis in it, which says that I ask you nicely, it is possible to make a request if someone cannot start it, but, for example, in the case of child support that is needed to make a daily living, there must be access to this amount. This responsibility is practically taken over by the state. So I think that the state and the Ministry of Justice are taking a number of steps that, to be added, mean learning for them, because these jobs need to be done, done, trained people. I consider it important to train and train executives - in which not only ethics but also the profession must be taught - to introduce the credit system, so it is something that we can say is professional. I believe people do want to be partners, and I don't assume someone's a gangster in the first place. I think that if he sees in the attitude that I'm serious about him and I have expectations, he'll change at the moment. When the state goes out and doesn't pay attention, the other one's the way he can be, because they don't pay attention to him. In the event that I pay attention to something and develop an organization that can offer a proper partnership, people change; at least that's what I believe, and I think that's why we put down this proposal, which can be called a hybrid, but it's a mixed system. There are many kinds of mixed systems, and we know many kinds of mixed systems in Europe. Let's give it a try. I believe the Attorney General takes responsibility. And as far as the discussion or information is concerned, I do not wish to agree to this, this is not my level. I think, rather, that I like to see every good suggestion, and I do not keep myself from considering any good proposals from whomever it comes. I think it's a duty for a minister. What needs to be added, for me, this is not only the two-thirds of the laws, but also the ordinary laws. It is a simple law, and I think that this is a question that affects not only me but everyone, and it is everyone's responsibility to deliver his proposal even if I do not ask. So I think, if I do not ask, if I do not call, it is also the responsibility of all Members to participate in this, to bomb the Minister of Justice with his suggestions, and, of course, we will examine it. Any proposal can be good, and what's good, I usually accept. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks. Dr. Gábor Staudt and Dr. András Schiffer applaud.]]
u2015-06-12-16	I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt in a normal time frame.
u2015-06-12-17	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be brief, but the two-minute method makes it easier for me to speak in this form. I think, and in response to what you said, Minister, I agree with a lot of things, including the fact that the state system did not work well at the time, but obviously this was the state system of the Kádár era. So what we don't know is how a normal, democratic state system would have worked. I'm sure it's better than the Kádár system. The fact that, even if it works without corruption, I could now say that, unfortunately, in 25 years, many systems have not been found to work in Hungary without corruption, although we are a quarter of a century from the Kádár era, but let us put this aside; so a state system without corruption can also operate in the field of implementation. So it is not true that no, because there are Western examples, there are appropriate examples in the world. Of course, if this is badly organised, it is burdened with corruption, it will not work well, but we should not assume that nothing can be done and done in Hungary without corruption. That would be quite a tragedy if we said that. I would like to respond to the MSZP so much that, on the one hand, I should be more clear: I do not think that the MSZP would otherwise support a state system. You may now say my fellow Member Bárándy, but knowing the attitude of the socialists so far, and this is something new for me, that at least Gergely Bárándy has reached the point that a state system can be better than, let's say, the current system... [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: When did I say anything else?]] Well, my experience is different, and it's my experience from the past period, and it was even more so during socialist governments that unfortunately, the MSZP defended the current executive set - and I am thinking of the leaders in particular - of the current executive set. It was protected, and it may not be Gergely Bárándy personally, so I would not like to have a personal debate, but based on the past 25 years of MSZP, and especially when they were on the government, the consensus was quite large. Other things have come up here in the media, but obviously they haven't been proven, so I don't want to get into the details that much. But we could see that even after the MSZP was no longer a governing force, the set that led the executive chamber was heavily protected, and I do not always feel that this protection worked only on a professional basis. The other half, however, is, and I can say this again on the basis of informal feedback, that the Chamber Managers often expected this and, in some cases, referred to their good relations. However, I feel that these should be removed, and here in Parliament the emphasis should be on a professional debate. Believe me, my colleague Bárándy, people understand what this is about. They understand that even if someone is in opposition and makes tough government criticism, and even if they disagree with a proposal by a hundred percent, because both LMP and we consider the state system to be welcome, we can still see progress in relation to the current system that has been put on the table, and they have also accepted a good part of our proposals that we have been able to formulate in the ministry. By the way, these are not underestimable processes, because I am convinced, and it can be disproved, of course, or said that this is not the case, but the fact that Jobbik kept the subject on the agenda, and, by the way, to be fair, the LMP also said a lot of times that there is a problem with the system of implementation, but now I should talk home, we had a major cardinal theme that something had to change the system. It took many years for this to reach the level of the governing force, as Fidesz has been governing for five years, but the point is that we do not underestimate our own role in this, that we have been able to achieve something here in Parliament at press conferences, pointing to concrete issues. Of course, this process must be followed through with criticism, support where appropriate, but it can be credible what we say, and I believe that if we can support the good elements, and what may not be good or wrong or not, we will say it very hard with a critical edge. If we do not have a good proposal before this House in the autumn, we will not support it, but this is how we can be credible and meet our voters by standing next to the forward-looking proposals. Believe me, although this may be difficult for the MSZP to understand, people expect this, this is what they expect of opposition representatives to stand up for good proposals, but they call attention to bad proposals hard and even at ministerial level, the opinion is expressed in the toughest professional way. That's what they expect. I think if we look at the support of the two parties, say, the MSZP and Jobbike, then I have to think that this is not about that, and now these MSZP arguments are outdone, because the MSZP very much liked to say that the Fidesz-Jobs coalition will be sure here, and if we support something or the LMP supports something, it is because we want to make a coalition. No, no, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow MSZP Members to the fact that Jobbik is the change party and that a change party does not enter a coalition. Either you can replace the current set or you can't, but you don't want to enter a coalition. Then, to say that when the MSZP supported some of the Fidesz proposals - perhaps András Schiffer will explain this - it was not, for example, the proposals voted in favour of large capital or banks, then how does this happen, who entered into a coalition? So let's just forget about these nerves, let's forget about the bad political attitudes that may have worked for as long as there were two parties, but now they don't work in a multi-group political system. [[9.40]] In fact, we have to look at where this policy has led in the last 25 years. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Stop explaining and support him.]] I am not explaining, even my fellow Member Barándy could say why I was afraid of the MSZP. Because you could tell me why I'm warning them to change their political attitude. Yes, that's the opinion of the people, because they sent us here to give our opinion. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You've been talking about us for five minutes.]] Of course, it would be best for the MSZP to continue its current behaviour and to sink to the level of a 5% party. This is probably going to happen - of course. Good. But I'm still talking about the MSZP, and the only reason I'm rejecting it is because in support of any proposal here, it's said that this can happen because Jobbik wants to rub down on Fidesz as a coalition partner. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I didn't say that.]] Yes, that's what my fellow Member said. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: I said that sometimes it looks like you're close.]] The point is that Jobbik has grown up to be a pro-changer, and MSZP may be able to compete with DK or LMP in the future. We wish you good luck with that. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-12-18	I now give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer.
u2015-06-12-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I'm sorry that Minister had to leave. Undoubtedly, László Trócsányi is a refreshing spot in the Orbán government, because he does not just call a five-party meeting in two-thirds cases. In fact, the judicial portfolio did the very unicable thing, that it didn't call for a two-thirds settlement, but in ordinary majority laws, it was like Pp. And now the law of execution. Let me say, however, that we continue to have serious doubts about the long-term - long-term. - the extent to which this mixed system will be operational, the extent to which, where appropriate, it will stand the trial of judicial forums either at international level or at the Constitutional Court. But Gergely Bárándy said some pretty interesting things here. First, i, and let's just say that for four years the Socialist Party played the game that if other opposition parties didn't play from the sheet music of the Socialist Party, they wouldn't say otherwise, they'd want to wink with Fides. This extremely stupid rhetoric was rewarded by voters in April 2014, so let's keep it that way. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: They have bigger problems than that.]] I think that it is time to forget and notice that there is a four-pole political system in Hungary at the will of the electorate - point. The two-party system where Fidesz and MSZP can cover their own mess with each other's sins is over. There is no doubt that I have to correct my position, and Mr Barándy has drawn attention to it: there has indeed been in the last five years that the Socialist Party has supported a government position, that is correct. For example, when it comes to the interests of large owners, MSZP is a loyal partner of Fidesz. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You are ridiculous.]] In the Land Robbery Act, but in the debate of the Free Trade Agreement, István Ujhelyi, Attila Mesterházy has received so much praise from Fidesz that he is a bitch! So that's it. As far as the concrete bill is concerned, LMP's position is clear. We support this bill for two reasons. On the one hand, because it is a decisive step towards strengthening public responsibility for the enforcement market, for the implementation system - that is right. Secondly, progress is made to make it easier for less capitalised, poor people, those who otherwise become victims of Fidesz's social policy, to have access to claim enforcement. I also understand that the Socialist Party does not support this. Of course he doesn't support it, because fake left-wing governments are the main culprits in the establishment of such an enforcement market. The Socialist Party, the Socialist Government of Justice, has a huge responsibility for the establishment in 94 of an enforcement system where the state washes its hands and assumes no responsibility for the implementation of state decisions. Two, there is a huge responsibility for the false left that there has been an implementation market where poorer people have less access to justice. The Socialist Party's support for this system supports the current status quo, I'm not surprised at all, because it's their work. The MSZP cannot draw conclusions from the glorious governance that has led for example to this point in the area of justice, just as the Minister or Secretary of State has failed to explain why the implementation system has not been touched in the last five years. Two thirds of them were not enough to help families in four years who had become landrunners not simply because of foreign exchange lending, but because of corruption in the enforcement market. I expect the Secretary of State to explain why Fidesz was delayed in the previous term by touching the implementation system. [[Dr. György Rubovszky: Robi, you should say only.]] I think, Congressman Rubovszky, that the, but perhaps not quite a satisfactory explanation. This may require a more serious justification. Just as I would like to expect Mr Secretary of State's position as to when there will be a new enforcement law before this House, an implementing law supplementing the upcoming Pp., which will be an essential element to implement the relevant parts of the private bankruptcy. When will there be a new enforcement law that will finally clarify the state's responsibility for implementing state decisions? Thank you very much.
u2015-06-12-20	Thank you. I'm gonna ask Andras Schiffer if he's gonna last two minutes. [[For signal:]] No. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-06-12-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I probably won't say another word, because at this level, it's a shame to argue, but I'm gonna do it now. Congressman Schiffer seems to be having trouble understanding his texts or something else. [[Defiance.]] Because no one here supports the status quo, I think we've said that quite often, and quite a lot. Isn't that right, Congressman? I began my speech, and not only this, but also the rest on this subject, that the system that we have now cannot be maintained. So we're still interested in maintaining the status quo? If that's what you're saying, he's probably having trouble understanding texts. I'm afraid I can't deal with that. I do not know what to do either, Mr President, and really, I say it is a pity to continue this debate in this way, when you say that I quote your own words that it is not clear that the competences and the system are perfectly inadequate to achieve the objectives; now, you are voting for this system. Congratulations on that. And I can tell Congressman Staudt, in his long discussion, that you should not talk about the MSZP for seven minutes, but about the bill. In parentheses, we'll see the election results. For now, from what is relevant, I can tell you that there were three interim elections, two of which were won by the left and one by you. Stick to it. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP. Dr. Répássy, Robert: We thought the independents had won. Dr. András Schiffer: Independent civilians.]]
u2015-06-12-22	I need a technical break. [[A moment's pause.]] We can continue the meeting for now, because before the screen went dark, Gábor Staudt asked for a word in two minutes. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: András Schiffer first.]] András Schiffer asked for it? Okay, I'll give the floor to Congressman András Schiffer in two minutes.
u2015-06-12-23	Thank you, Mr. President. Looks like Gergely Bárándy broke the fuse. Then I would like to make it clear once again that it is a 20-year failure for the state to wash its hands because of the enforcement system. This law is a major step forward compared to what has taken place in the last 20 years, as there will be a state control over the enforcement market, which can at least be more effective in preventing maladministration that has caused the press to be loud and loud, suffering from this enforcement system in recent years. We are voting for this by saying that the government will have no choice but to bring a completely new enforcement law to the House in this term. In the short term, this system will also work, but in the long term there will be serious problems with this mixed solution, which I continue to hold. And I continue to believe that the limits of competence are unclear. But the fact that a party is responsible for the fact that this brothel has been created, even supported and created, and then calls for the fact that when it finally takes place in the direction of having a stronger state role, then why should we vote for it, since it does not cause perfect and serious problems of competence, is a very strange and cynical attitude. I would like to continue to see the position of the judicial wallet as to whether a whole new law on judicial enforcement is being put forward in this cycle. Thank you. [[9.50]]
u2015-06-12-24	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Gábor Staudt in two minutes.
u2015-06-12-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe that actions are more important than words. The fact that the socialists now say, at the level of words, yes, that we need to move away from the current situation, because the current situation is not good, of course, something compared to the previous one, but if their vote does not support proposals in the otherwise good direction, then this will be rather uncredited, especially in the light of what I have said about the rumors that have spread in the media over the past period. But I don't want to deal with this too long. The only reason I brought this up is because my colleague Gergely Bárándy had a problem with why I talked about this for seven minutes. I didn't talk about it for seven minutes, he brought it up. I understand that the problems and complexes are there because the MSZP is shrinking and Jobbik is growing, but let's not do this here. But there's one thing I have to respond to. So now Zoltán Kész has suddenly become left-wing, and tomorrow he may be MSZP? It's easy to get behind an independent candidate, of course, to support him, not to give him the logo. If he had lost, it was none of our business, if he had won, then he was our candidate after all. I think citizens and voters have had enough of this. But I would like to end this debate. The point is that we need to focus on implementation, reform the implementation system, and our current vote in favour is also a demand in the direction that the proposal enters into an even more effective system in the autumn, and that proposal will also be able to express our improved criticisms and comments. We hope that they will also be integrated, and that we can take a step in the right direction from the current system. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-12-26	If there is no further intention of comment - I do not see it - then I will give the floor to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State, to respond to what has been said.
u2015-06-12-27	Thank you for the floor. The Minister of Justice has basically answered most of the questions that have been raised. I have enjoyed watching the debate between opposition parties, but I do not wish to comment on it in particular. I can only confirm the two aspects that the Minister of Justice has said in the closing words, which govern a judicial government in the case of judicial enforcement. These two aspects are efficiency and empathy. It must be guaranteed at the same time that judicial enforcement is effective, since the court enforces the decisions of the judiciary and the decisions of the judiciary in cases based on final judgments and partly based on enforceable documents, which are no longer open to further dispute. So the enforcer does nothing but implement the decisions of the rule of law as the last instrument of the rule of law. At the same time, the executive must, of course, have a legitimate empathy for those who are subject to enforcement, so that the rights of persons subject to enforcement are fully respected and must do so in a disciplined and ethical manner. Any minister of justice, any government, finds itself confronted with the dilemma that whatever enforcement organization we set up, against the executive organization - whether the state or the independent judicial enforcement body - in any case, efficiency can be sought in the first place, but of course empathy can also be claimed. These two aspects are to be reconciled with the fact that the independent judicial enforcer remains an effective tool for implementing decisions. We have an effective judicial enforcement organisation in our hands, but in addition to efficiency, public supervision needs to be strengthened and this new bill is intended to strengthen public supervision. Of course, this House will also meet with our further proposals for judicial enforcement, because we also believe that the organizational part is only one, and perhaps not even the most important, part of the judicial implementation that the government wants to change. If political groups demand and wish to participate in this process, we will continue to inform them and involve them in this legislation. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We do not need information, we need consultation, Mr. Secretary of State.]] From now on, of course, we will put the invitations in such a way that no one feels that they cannot interfere with the legislative process. This initiative shows the openness of the Ministry of Justice and its opening up to legislation. I trust you do not misunderstand, but understand this intention well. Thank you very much on behalf of the Government for your support, and I ask the Members of Parliament to support the bill. Thank you for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-06-12-28	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by 16:00 yesterday. Now I'm ordering a 10-minute break, about 10 minutes until the monitor and the techs are back on track. Then we'll get back to work. [[It's a short break.]] [[10.00]] Dear Parliament, Looks like we can continue our work. A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Emerging and Sexual Harassment and, in this context, amending certain laws will follow. The submission is T/5034. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Répássy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-06-12-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government's priority is to protect children and young people. The government's policy of children and youth is based on the fact that all children are equally important. The future of society is built in the present, so it is important for children's and youth policies to ensure healthy physical and psychological development of children, to organise effectively the protection of their children and to prevent their risk. One of the tools for this could be criminal law. The need to strengthen the protection of children is a growing need today, and the government has taken a number of steps to promote it in recent years. In December 2011, the Ministry of Public Administration and Justice set up a task force for child-friendly justice with the involvement of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Human Resources. The task of the Task Force was to consult the civil society organisations concerned in order to achieve child-friendly justice and to prepare the necessary legislative amendments as a result of the discussions. The government announced the year of child-friendly justice in 2012, but the related activity continued in 2013. As a result of the working group's operation, two child-friendly justice laws have been drawn up. LXII of 2012 amending certain laws relating to the implementation of child-friendly justice. The law contained amendments in the field of civil and criminal substantive and procedural law that promoted the development of a child-friendly justice system, i.e. a system of justice that ensures respect and effective enforcement of children's rights at the highest possible level. The second package of laws is the 2013 CCXLV on the amendment of individual laws to protect children. Law. The focus of the package was on the 1997 XXXI on child protection and child care management. the introduction of preventive protection as a new legal institution by amending law. The legislative package also aimed at defining legal instruments for combating the dangers facing children on the Internet. The publication of the international convention under the bill can also be assessed as a continuation of this multi-annual process. On 13 July 2007, the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers adopted the Lanzarote Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Emerging and Sexual Abuse, signed by 47 Member States and ratified by 36 Member States. Hungary joined the list of signatory states on 29 November 2010. However, the transposition of the provisions of the Convention into domestic law required long legislative work, including the creation of a new criminal code. The results of this legislative work have led our country's legal system to meet the international requirements of the Convention following the minor amendments contained in the bill. Thus, there is no longer any legal obstacle to the publication of the Convention, and it should therefore be published and introduced by law in the domestic legal system in the light of its provisions which directly affect the rights and obligations of citizens. In order to prevent and combat the sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children and to protect the rights of child victims, the Convention sets out in detail the different types of abuse that States Parties should pursue by means of criminal law. It also provides for the provision of services by States in order to prevent such acts from being committed, to detect the danger of children in a timely manner and to assist children who have become victims. Under the Convention, States Parties should include preventive mechanisms to detect potential abusers from the child professions in the training and application requirements of child workers. The Convention also settles rules for the collection and transfer of data between States on perpetrators of criminal offences in order to ensure the effective protection of children across borders. Each State Party shall designate the central body which stores the data and DNA samples of the perpetrators of the offences covered by the Convention and shall transmit them to other States in the framework of international cooperation. In Hungary, these tasks will be carried out by the Central Office for Administrative and Electronic Public Services, as well as by the Criminal Experts and Research Institute. [[10.10]] The adoption of the new Criminal Code was the real breakthrough in complying with the provisions of the Convention. The provisions of Law C of 2012 on the Criminal Code on crimes against gender freedom and gender morality and crimes against children and against families have already been established in accordance with the Lanzarote Convention and EU legislation on this subject. In accordance with the provisions of the Convention, the new Criminal Code has allowed perpetrators of crimes against sex leave to be banned from exercising an occupation in which they would be in charge of the education, supervision, care, treatment of a child or other power or influence of a child. A whole package of amendments to the child protection law has been developed to better enforce the provisions of the new Criminal Code. As a result, the Act CCXLV of 2013 on the amendment of certain laws to protect children, as already referred to above, was adopted. In this context, the rules of the Labour Code, the Law on the Status of Civil Servants, the Public Service Officers Act and the Law on the System of Criminal Records have been amended. Employment conditions have been tightened in the legislation governing legal status, excluding the establishment of a relationship with employers who are under 18 years of age, who are not in charge of education, supervision, care and treatment for offenders of the offences listed in the law. The Convention imposes an obligation on States Parties to punish offences determined in accordance with the Convention with effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties, such as, under the Convention, in particular, imprisonment. In Hungary, the threat of imprisonment of criminal offences falling within the scope of the Convention begins at 3 years and, given the seriousness of the crime, the relationship between the perpetrator and the victim and the age of the child, the criminal code allows for imprisonment of up to 5 to 15 years. In the light of Article 30 (2) of the Convention and in the light of Article 35 ( 1) (b) and ( 2) thereof, it is important to mention the establishment of child listening rooms at the police investigating authorities of 32/2011. The KIM regulation of 18 November 2006 made the establishment of children's study rooms in criminal proceedings mandatory in Hungary. There are currently 26 children's study rooms nationwide. The development of children's study rooms is clearly a positive step, which contributes to the awareness-forming of the police and the whole justice system in a good sense, thus serving the children's interests indirectly. As a further effect of the regulation, the National Court Office has initiated the establishment of a child hearing room in a court building of more than seven people last year. It is also important to have the requirement of the Convention, the requirement of the procedure to be followed out of turn, to which the 19th of 1998 on the Hungarian Criminal Procedure is subject. At the end of 2014, a provision of outstanding importance went beyond the provisions of the Convention, which qualified the criminal code as a criminal offence, which, among the crimes against the freedom of sex and against sexual morality, was more criminal than five years of imprisonment if the victim of the offence was not 18 years of age at the time of the offence. This is complemented by the provision in the Criminal Code that, if the victim of a crime against a violent crime of passion, intentional assault more serious than three years of imprisonment, kidnapping, trafficking in human beings, violations of personal liberty, and the rape of sex and sexual morality at the time of the crime has not yet reached the age of 18, the period of limitation shall not be counted until the victim is 18 years of age. With these special limitation rules, the legislator has defined as strict as possible the time required after the age required by the Convention has been fulfilled, in order to increase the deterrent of potential offenders from criminal offences. Compliance with the Convention concerns not only criminal law but also a number of issues other than criminal law, especially child protection. In order to comply with the provisions of the Convention in the child protection sector, the 1997 XXXI on the protection of children and the management of guardians CCV 2013 on the amendment of Laws and certain related laws in relation to the transformation of foster family status and special care. the relevant requirements have been transposed into the Child Protection Act by law. In the framework of this, an institution indicating child abuse, neglect, closed handling of the person's data was introduced to help improve the effectiveness of the child protection signalling system in order to identify child abuse cases in a timely manner and to take immediate action. In order to identify and eliminate child abuse, uniform principles and methodology have been developed for professionals in the sector. With the entry into force of the new Criminal Code and its related legislative amendments, the main foundations for the transposition of the Convention into domestic law have therefore been established. As a result, the publication of the Convention requires only minor amendments contained in the proposal in order to ensure full consistency with international requirements. In this context, the bill also extends the rules of the Criminal Code on disenfranchisation of minors to criminal offences, which can be applied in cases where, under the Convention, a child is forced to observe sexual activities and is applicable in all cases where the perpetrator endangers the physical, mental, moral or emotional development of the child. The bill also amends the provisions of the Law on Criminal Records, providing for the registration of the DNA profile of the person subject to criminal proceedings in the event of sexual violence, the promotion of prostitution and indecent offences, the punishment of which only reaches three years of imprisonment, but by their nature it is necessary to be subject to this obligation. On the basis of what has been said, the legislative results of recent years, accompanied by the amendments contained in the bill, fully ensure consistency with international requirements, so that the Convention can be declared as a further important step in order to better enforce the protection of children. I ask this House to accept the bill. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-12-30	Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. In this context, I give the floor first to Attila Petneházy, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-12-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As a Christian conservative, it may not be appropriate to begin with a wording, although I agree with myself that this is an act that is unforgivable. I think that society does not think that any tightening up is excessive in this regard, and I do not think that any strong action will prove excessive for the public. [[10.20]] In any case, in the interests of the physical and spiritual development of children, as Mr. Secretary of State has said, one of the fundamental things is that in the place where his nest is, where he should be at home, he is safe; and here I have reached the most serious type of pedophilia, as the common language calls it, when a relative commits the crime against his own offspring or against his own offspring. As parents, of course, they are terrified of this, and one of the great difficulties of this - and perhaps everyone is affected by such a thing, and not only by the parent, but also by everyone - is that this kind of defencelessness is perhaps the most terrible thing in this matter; and how helpless a parent should be. But at the same time, the eternal dilemma arises about the limit when a parent, let's say, raises a child to sound alertness, and what triggers unnecessary fears in him. So it is very difficult for the parent to do so, and I therefore think that society should bear as much responsibility as possible, in my sense: zero tolerance is what this kind of action means to me. As has been said, the convention adopted by the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers in July 2007 was adopted and joined by Hungary on 27 November 2010, and the provisions of Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code, in accordance with the Convention, on the prohibition of employment, on crimes against the freedom of sex and against sexual morality, and on crimes against children, comply with the provisions of the Convention and impose penalties on all acts referred to in the Convention. This amendment prohibits not only a person in the future from dealing with children who commit a crime against sexual freedom to harm a child, but also a child who is forcing a child to watch sexual activity. And here I would stress once again what Mr Secretary of State has already said about the danger that the Internet is for our children, how difficult it is for us adults and how we protect them from this. This shows how diverse this is and how we need to become vigilant for adults around our children, and this also shows that we may not really be alert enough. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I think we all agree - and I do not think that I know for sure - that the protection of our children is the most important; perhaps they believe that the Fidesz-KDNP Party Alliance, who has set the protection of families as one of its main tasks, puts even more emphasis on the importance of such and similar things, as the family is also hurt, is an eternal psychological burden on the victims. A family cannot develop - because a family is developing together, not only a child is developing together, but a family is developing together - it can no longer develop unharmed, it cannot develop in such a way that it serves the interests of both the individual and society. So the law is strictly justified in this case, and I ask you to support the government's submission. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-12-32	I now give the floor to Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-06-12-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, On 13 July 2007, the Council of Europe Ministerial Committee adopted the Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Emerging and Sexual Abuse, which entered into force on 1 July 2010. Hungary joined the list of signatory states on 29 November 2010. The aim of the Convention is to prevent and combat the sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children, to protect the rights of child victims and to establish a monitoring mechanism to monitor the fulfilment of the obligations in this field. I think we can say in this House that the child is the greatest national treasure. If we can't protect them, we can't protect anyone. I would like to quote from the Council of Europe Convention on the sexual exploitation and protection of children against sexual abuse, from the preamble:. Member States of the Council of Europe and the other signatory States, having regard to the fact that the Council of Europe aims to achieve greater unity between its Member States; having regard to the right of all children to protection measures on the part of their families, society and the State required by their status as minors; taking into account that the sexual exploitation of children, in particular child pornography and prostitution, and all forms of sexual abuse of children, including acts committed abroad, are detrimental to children's health and psychosocial development; taking into account that sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children have become more worrying at national and international level, in particular as regards the increased use of information and communication technologies, children and perpetrators, and that prevention and control of sexual abuse of children requires international cooperation; having regard to the welfare and best interests of children as fundamental values recognised by all Member States, which should be supported without discrimination. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. By reading this, we should not go along with saying several times about sexual harassment - whether it affects children or adults - that it is the basis for everything if the signalling system is working well in Hungary. In the signalling system we talk about educational institutions, kindergartens, schools, educational professionals, the protective women's network, the paediatric or medical care system, the police, the court and the cooperation of the professionals of these institutions. Here it is hard to say that Hungary has a job and has very, very much to do in this area. I would like to give an example of the gravity of the situation. The 2014 ombudsman's report deals specifically with the case in Szentmiklós. László Székely has launched an investigation and writes the following in his report; it is very instructive, I think it tells us everything about the mistakes we are dealing with in Hungary today. In the case of children who have been abused by their parents for years in Szigetszentmiklós, the report concluded that, following the adoption of the protection of children in May 2005, the risks arising from their parental neglect could not be eliminated by social work. The Commissioner, the Minister of Human Resources, is proposing to take steps to increase the cooperation efficiency of the members of the child protection signalling system, to ensure that methodological materials, guidelines for the prevention, detection and treatment of child sexual abuse are distributed as widely as possible to child protection professionals and child protection signalling members, and to organise training and further training in this field. Following consultation with the Commissioner, the Ministry prepared by the end of May 2014 and presented to the heads of social and guardian's offices a guide on the operation of the child protection detection and signalling system, entitled Sector-neutral uniform principles and methodology to identify and eliminate child abuse. [[10.30]] The wallet asked the Registrars to ensure that methodological guides were made available to the members of the signalling system. In the next case, I will read that this is precisely the case that the warning system professionals will refer to, that they have made this known to their colleagues, that they have made this methodology known, and that they are not to blame for anything from now on. This is precisely the methodology they refer to, and it is terrible to say that experts in Hungary today spread their hands on the grounds that they have learned a methodology, made them familiar with their colleagues, and since then they are not at fault that they have not noticed the problem. In the same case, the Commissioner continues to examine the enforcement of child rights in criminal proceedings. In the report, children were interviewed by an investigative judge in a closed session in February 2013 with the participation of the seconded ad hoc caretaker. According to the case-by-case janitor's report to the social services office sent to their representation, after hearing minors, he received no notice of the state of the proceedings and was informed by the press of the submission of the indictment. According to the case-by-case janitor, they appeared in the press, given the fact that children can be identified by them, they are contrary to the interests of children. After the press reports specifically referred to police sources, the head of the Social and Social Services Department asked the investigating police to know whether an investigation had been initiated to find out how the information was provided at the media conference and why the press had been informed of the indictment of parents before the case-by-case caretaker. The Attorney General has issued guidance to the prosecutor's organisation on the aspects governing the disclosure of criminal proceedings data and on the findings of criminal liability in this regard. The psychics feature the first letter of the children's last name, their first names, their year of birth, their place of residence, their name, their house, their school. Thus, children have become identifiable not only in their homes but throughout the country. The Commissioner shared the view of the head of the social services office that the news that identifies them has a serious, negative impact on children, making the treatment of the severe trauma they have suffered very difficult and even impossible. In the absence of any powers, the Commissioner did not have the opportunity to examine the press's activities on a fundamental point of view, and therefore asked the President of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information to examine the press activities in relation to the management of the data of the children concerned. He also drew the head of the social services office's attention to the possibility of suing children for violation of their personal rights. Finally, the Ombudsman considered it essential to draw attention to the responsibility of the press. In another case, the Ombudsman raises another problem with the sexual exploitation of children. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights learned from the press that children living in small settlements were tortured by their parents and viewed as sexual objects. Children were highlighted from the family and placed with foster parents in May 2013 on a proposal from the Child Welfare Service. The children told the foster parents what had happened to them, the parents were reported by the social services, and they were arrested in advance. The Commissioner initiated an ex officio inquiry into the matter and the head of the Social and Social Services Office of the Government Office requested an examination of the activities of the child welfare services caring for the family as well as the procedure of the Child Services Office. The Social and Social Services Office has convened a coordination meeting on this matter. According to what was said there, the neglect of children and the inadequate circumstances of the family were known to teachers, which was constantly reported in the Child Welfare Service, but there were no signs of abuse. The head of the guardian's office did not find any omission in respect of the members of the signalling system. According to the head of the Social and Social Services Office, the methodology guide mentioned earlier at the management meeting held on 26 July 2014 - here I refer to the methodology - was presented to the heads of the district guardianship offices, and the material was transmitted electronically to the managers of first-degree guardianships and child welfare services. According to the Commissioner, special attention should be paid to prevention and to the early detection of signs of abuse in order to ensure that children's rights to protection against abuse, as set out in the Child Protection Act, are respected. Here the experts referred to the fact that they presented this methodology, and from then on they did not fail. The Ombudsman makes a recommendation, which I will read to the government: in his reports every time he tried to draw attention to the international human rights requirements in addition to the importance of Hungarian constitutional and legal guarantees. From the issues of the operation of the child protection warning system to the introduction of the legal institution of child protection guardians, to the system of child-friendly justice and victim support, he wanted to take steps towards a constructive solution to the problems. The vulnerable situation of children magnifies all omissions, violations, errors and errors, and the consequences are very serious. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I believe that on behalf of the Hungarian Socialist Party, I can say that we will support the law in any way, but that is still not enough. There's a lot more to be done. This is the subject, joining my previous fellow Member, in which it cannot be said that there is not enough work to be done. We must do everything possible to deal with this problem as much as possible. About two months ago, I was invited to the Central Theatre for a lecture by a civil society organization, where Hungarian theatre performers held a reading evening on sexual crimes involving children. I haven't met many fellow politicians this evening. Honestly, I couldn't spend more than two hours there. All night long, it was about children who had sexually assaulted children who eventually became adults, writing their stories and reading these stories there a few years later. They didn't leave out one word of these letters. I think the man was sitting in the chair, struggling constantly to cry, rage, rage, or whatever to do to draw the public's attention to the fact that this can't go on. When we keep sweeping these problems under the rug in Hungary, I think we can say that we cannot only move forward with legislation. One of the most important tasks in any way is to strengthen the signalling system, involve civil society organisations in this work, and a very broad public call to this problem, to read as few times as possible in the press, to abuse a child again in the village X, or how many years it hasn't been found out in its own environment, or how much worse it is that they knew about it, only everyone in the village X had their head buried in the sand. I believe that much more needs to be done on the part of the government on this issue, but I can only say that we will support the draft law before us, but we will ask the Government to deal with this matter much more widely and much more. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-12-34	Now I ask you if anyone from the KDNP Group would like to comment on the debate now as a keynote speaker or later. [[Péter Harrach: Later.]] All right. Then I will give the floor to István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, who will give his speech on the pulpit. [[10.40]]
u2015-06-12-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On 13 July 2007, the Council of Europe Ministerial Committee adopted the Convention on protection against the sexual exploitation and abuse of children, which entered into force on 1 July 2010. Hungary joined on 29 November 2010, but the transposition of the provisions into different codes was somewhat later. Moreover, this Convention, which was also signed by our country on 29 November 2010, contains virtually three relevant conventions: the European Convention on the exercise of the rights of the child, the European Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse, and the European Convention on the Adoption of Children. The three main objectives of this proposal are to protect against sexual abuse and exploitation of children, to combat, prevent and prevent this; secondly, to protect the rights of victims, children's victims, children's victims; and last but not least, national and international cooperation in order to prevent crime, to provide adequate information, in fact, to detect crimes, to apprehend and punish offenders. The Convention also defines the different types of abuse, the scope of certain preventive and victim-help services. It is a significant provision of this Convention to consider those under 18 years of age and under 18 years of age as children, while it is the competence of the Member States to determine during which age sexual relations are prohibited. Articles 6 and 9 of the Convention should be highlighted. Article 6 deals with prevention, which should be started in cooperation with parents in the primary and secondary schools, and which, of course, should be continued in high school, in accordance with age characteristics, in order to avoid children becoming victims and victims of exploitation, harassment or sexual abuse. Article 9 deals with, among other things, the promotion of the private sector, which mainly calls for the launch of programmes and actions in the field of infocommunications, with a broad range of information to serve the purposes of prevention, protection and defence. This should also include the adoption of the so-called optional protocol, which deals not only with the protection against exploitation and harassment in general, but also specifically with the sale, coercion or coercion of children in certain cases of trafficking in human beings. The consistency of the provisions of the Convention with the Hungarian legislation was achieved by the adoption of Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code. This was also a particularly welcome initiative in the previous cycle, so that certain crimes in this field would never lapse. It's Btk. CHAPTER XIX In this case, these acts will never lapse, provided that the offence is punishable by imprisonment of more than five years. This is otherwise justified, since, due to the nature of the acts, it is often not until many years later, but after a decade of time, it is revealed that a one-off or often continuous unit has been committed. This is why it is justified to introduce or maintain a non-exaggeration in such a circle, in such cases and in cases of such a crime. We are also pleased, of course, to support and support the fact that anyone who has previously been involved in such acts in a final decision or judgment can be established, should be prohibited from certain occupations - of course, we are talking about occupations related to the care and supervision of children - or from any occupation or job where the person who is banned from the occupation exercises some influence over those under the age of 18 or there is some kind of power relationship between those under the age of 18 and that person. That's why it has to be said that it's not just the Btk. Some of its provisions, not only against the freedom of sex and sexual morality already mentioned, but also deal with this issue in the criminal code chapter on children's interests and family-related matters, but also in other areas of law and other laws. These include the Labour Code, the Law on the Status of Civil Servants, the Public Service Officers Act, and the Law on Children's Protection and Social Services, Electronic Communications, Criminal Records and Criminal and Police Biometric Records. It can therefore be seen that we are talking about quite a wide range of issues, not just and exclusively a matter of public security, public order or criminal code. At the same time, due to the very nature of the acts, the vision is quite high. According to the most modest estimates, at least 20 times. So if we find out in five cases, it means that in reality there have been at least a hundred such cases, although in my humble opinion the number of crimes that remain hidden and may never be revealed is greater than 20 times the number of crimes that remain hidden. On a national average, 100-200 cases of investigation or court-martials in Hungary each year will be revealed at least 20 times or ten times more than before. Attention should be drawn and the Internet, the dangers posed by the Internet, should be dealt with separately. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to share with you, without the need for completeness, some terrifying data. At least 12 percent of the websites are pornographic. Globally, world average, there are at least 300 new porn sites a day, and at least 34 percent of Internet users, so on average, every third person is contacted outside of their own will and decision by some pornographic recording, which, unfortunately, as a form of unsearched content, can be found on the Internet, if you don't want it. In addition, it is very common, and one recent case in Heves County proves that it is a common method for pedophile criminals, who are not simply hardened criminals, but sick people who can hardly be cured of this disease, which is why the rate or number of relapses or multiple relapses in this category of crimes is very high, this is a September 2014 case, not unique, but just one of many. Here a 12-year-old girl became offended when a 19-year-old victim who was actually 52 years old met her on the Internet, and then just a few days after she met her, a man who was close to the retirement age asked her to take half-naked or naked photos of herself. Of course, the little girl tried to apologize, protest, try to avoid this danger, but somehow she got him to do it. Then, from the moment the images were released to one of the social media sites, the little girl became blackmailable, coerced to the point where the unsub tried to get the girl to act sexually. Lucky for her, she turned to her parents and shared this extremely humiliating and difficult situation with her parents. The parents informed the police, and when the little girl met with the criminal, the police captured this cursed beast, and thank God, she is now in a good place, and for a while there is probably no need to fear that other children will be corrupted. Although I note that the problem in this case is not only a small number of cases, but, in many cases, in my opinion, the judgments are not sufficiently deterrent and not serious enough. Even though there are the frameworks in the Btk., the punishments that would allow for the imposition of really serious, high-level punishments for the general and special prevention, if the courts do not wish to live for some mysterious reason, this unfortunately does not deter, but rather encourages, criminals. But it's not just this type of crime, it's not just the Btk. in this chapter, it is common, but also in the case of a number of other offences not covered by this agenda. It is worth considering the multi-annual decades of experience of a judicial expert, when he says not only that there are tens of them and that only a small proportion of cases are revealed, but also that he considers it to be a fundamental error when the method of investigation is usually used in criminal proceedings, or perhaps not even in criminal proceedings, but also in other types of proceedings, that the suspect is trying to prove his innocence through his own personality. In many cases, we see that they think that the child was just acting out in a fantasy, the child was making this up, and nothing really happened. [[10.50]] That is why many people are able to get away with it, and because it is also very common that they do not do so by the so-called "sugar uncles," although it is obviously not uncommon, but often by the narrower or wider family circles, it is necessary to seek out the sinner among the narrowest relatives. And this is also very serious because a child who undergoes this kind of abuse bears the clues of this for practically a lifetime, the consequences both spiritually and elsewhere, and it is also a fact, according to this expert opinion, that prostitution is a common consequence. Often, a person who has been exploited, harassed, sexually assaulted, is later headed for child prostitution or adult prostitution. This is precisely because every person in his childhood is in an impressionable, easy-to-manage, manipulatable, vulnerable position with the adult, most obviously against his own family members, his close family, and so it is often the case that a victim of such a crime goes astray, his whole life goes wrong, his whole life is ruined, and, where appropriate, he can be forced into prostitution more easily, or he himself can be argued as an adult by his own decision to enter the world of prostitution in the interests of criminals through his own free will or coercion. It is, of course, important to say that all parliamentary parties, in my view, will support this, which is, exceptionally, an issue where it should not be, or even explicitly ugly, repulsive, to open up a party political debate, which we obviously do not want to politicise. We simply want to draw attention to the fact that it is very beautiful when the treaty was signed by our country on 29 November 2010, it is a very nice ratification process, and it is very right that in the criminal code, in the various sectoral laws listed above, we have carried this through, but how incredibly much work will be done either for legislators or for law enforcement, especially for the police, once again, without the need for completeness, some cases in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County will prove it. On 16 January this year, the Turkish police station in Szentmiklós launched proceedings for prostitution against a local and two Tiszabő residents - 14, 16, 17 years of age. Then, on 22 January 2015, a 15-year-old, a 20-year-old and a 37-year-old, who also offered sexual services in public areas, were certified. On April 29th, the Karcag precinct filed a case against a 17-year-old Gyalian when she was selling herself for money outside Kunhegyes. On 21 May 2015, a 17-year-old resident in Tiszabő was also found to have offered sexual services on the outside of the Armed Forces, and a few days ago, on 1 June, on the outskirts of Törökszentmiklós, a girl under 18 years of age was found to have been forced into prostitution by certain criminal groups, and the procedure is still ongoing here. I would like to tell you that not all six months of this year have passed, but I have classified only cases in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, which does not mean that only this county is infected with the problem, in virtually every county, especially in the poorer regions of the country, in the northern and eastern counties, with similar or perhaps even more alarming numbers. So I warn you to avoid thinking that if we vote in favour of this bill, then we have already checked the whole thing out, in fact, for the sake of the desk and in the spirit of the legislative obligation, we have settled this issue, and there is nothing more to do. This problem needs to be given serious emphasis. I would like to draw your attention to an earlier, much-attacked, much-criticized, better proposal, but let it be said here, too, because we have always considered the rights of the victims, the interests of the victims, and we do not really want to deal with the feelings, spirituality and interests of the criminals, and certainly not with such disgusting criminals. The possibility of chemical castration has been raised in the case of proven paedophile offenders, with other European examples joining other European countries. I am not talking about physical but chemical castration, when, by putting a chemical, a compound into the body - to put it mildly - we are knocking out the central unit of these perpetrators that allows them or makes them fit to be corrupted by children. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] This is something to be fooled about, it is possible to protest to the liberals, but one who commits such a crime does not deserve to live freely, and another should not be given the chance to escape prison after a few years, to abuse more and more children, to destroy more and more lives, to break up new family ties. [[István Tukacs: Try it on yourself! Gergely Farkas: Why should I try it on you?]] So I think that at the introduction of this - and there is also an EU Member State in which this possibility exists - it is worth thinking that we should not just tear our mouths here, not just check this bill with a button, but actually act against criminals. Let us not cover their faces, let us cover their names, let the world see who they are, and let the world see that whoever harms our children will be punished for the actions of the misdeed. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-12-36	Ladies and gentlemen, I now give the floor to Mr Bernadett the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-06-12-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, If I wish to summarise briefly and succinctly the opinion of the May Other Politics, then it is time for Hungary to ratify this Council of Europe Convention. Since 2010, the LMP has been urging the ratification of the Convention on Protection against the Sexual Emerging and Sexual Abuse of Children. From time to time, the public is informed of certain cases through the press, and they cause the deepest indignation in the well-hungarian population, but they should know that every tenth child in Hungary is subjected to some form of sexual abuse. They should also know that the average age of entering prostitution in Hungary is 14 years. This is especially a message to those who believe that prostitutes are responsible for the situation they face. At the age of 14, on average, a prostitute enters into the conditions of which he can't or can't really break out. It is well known to me and to many of us, for example, that there was a little girl who was buried in the ground, who had to spend nights there, with only her head showing up and doing this to this little girl until she agreed to work as a prostitute in the next period. I could tell you a series of shocking stories, but let it be enough now that I really think it was time for you to ratify this, and I think that there is no and no need to seek a derogation from the parties and not to make it a party political issue that our children should be protected from sexual violence in all possible ways, from all forms of exploitation. Moreover, contrary to popular belief, people who do this to children tend to come out of the child's narrowest environment. They are people who enjoy the child's support, so to speak, children, family members, educators, caregivers, people who can get very close to the child. Most of these people are the ones who become corrupters. Moreover, child abuse, as such, is an event that is revealed only in very few cases. Moreover, when these cases are discovered, there is typically no reassuring solution, in many cases the abuser is not removed from the family, from the child's environment, and there are many reasons for this, and this is the point where I think that the Members of Parliament and the government must also be very thoroughly examined why the system is working so badly. It is a very important step to finally ratify this agreement, but it is at least as important to stop here for a moment and to think about why there are such bad conditions and why they have not changed for a long time. What we see is that there are teachers, home doctors, nurses and family care professionals who simply don't know, because they are not prepared to recognise child abuse in many cases, they are uncertain about what they have to do, they do not take the intervention, people working at different institutions cannot cooperate with each other. I think that here, the people working in the legislation, we have the task of improving this situation. I would like to draw your attention to an international project that perhaps many of us who sit here in this room or know more of us, this is the Box of Pandora. In a study in Hungary in 2011, he showed that if we think of high-school primary school students, then a third of these children, almost a third of these young people, 30.1 percent of them know a child who has been the victim of sexual violence, and these children know about these events, so they told us in the research. In addition, 17 percent of the children surveyed suffered some form of sexual abuse, and this analysis also states that only 64 percent of the cases go to prosecution. Sixty-four percent, that's how far it's gonna go to be an indictment at all. I think, before we draw very far-reaching conclusions here, this is a point to think about, why only 64 percent get to the point of making an indictment at all. [[11.00]] Here comes a solution that we have repeatedly proposed: the private initiative, as such, which blocks a lot of charges from happening. The report describes exactly what the LMP has been saying for a long time that children's victims have almost more difficult things to do if they want to press charges than adult victims, instead of children, it is the legal representative who can benefit from this procedure. And there are families - in fact, this is the typical one - where the abuse of the child is associated with the abuse of the mother, so the mother's options are extremely limited. Moreover, if we are talking about children's rights, we can also see that the child protection signalling system is not working properly, and this is now a recurring issue for the public through the press, which is constantly appearing. There are cases that have been discussed by the media for a longer period of time, which are cases of public uproar, and in this context has been raised in the past period and has been focused on the need to operate the signalling system effectively. And here comes my criticism of the government, which, despite the fact that this is not a party policy issue, I have to do, because I see it and many of us see that the government is not taking a strong enough step in this area, even though, according to the experiences of organisations dealing with the subject, child protection rarely deals in depth with child sexual abuse. In many cases, it is simply not possible for professionals who can recognize the problem they need to be able to intervene effectively. Moreover, in the most difficult situation, there are children who are either victims of sexual violence, exploitation or prostitution in their families or in some institution, and they are not protected from new victims, and therapy is not guaranteed in many cases. And here's the thing: if that happens in childhood, it's a long time, practically a lifetime could go on. So, with great respect, I ask the government to do what it can, and I think that you in the government now have every opportunity to act, because you also know that this practical inability to function now brings about in a series of places that are too late to take children out of the family. I would also like to recall here in Parliament, let us talk about the brutal child torture in island Miklós. The whole country was shocked by what happened there. In the case of szentmiklós, parents neglected, severely assaulted and regularly raped three of their children for many years without having been detected by members of the child protection system for a long time. An ombudsman's inquiry was also launched, which found that the victims simply did not receive assistance - professionals did not recognize in time that they had to be removed from the family. That's what I'm talking about, not getting out of the family in time. In addition, the report revealed that there was no cooperation between members of the child protection signalling system and that the process of highlighting it lasted as such for years. In addition, sexual abuse remained hidden from the various members of the signalling system, and the children were eventually protected because of serious neglect, not because of serial rape and brutal torture, but because of neglect. This case also had to be recalled here because it is practically an example that bears all the problems of the child protection signalling system as a veterinary horse. I would like to reiterate that these are all the problems that can be helped, and you have every means of providing this assistance. Who are the members of this signalling system? Obviously, the GP, the guardian, the kindergarten teacher, the teacher, the child welfare service, or, where appropriate, the police, these bodies should be able to cooperate with each other, they should be able to recognise child abuse, but they need methodological guidance and continuous training. And here I must also mention what we expect or what we can expect from a system that is so heavily underfunded. At the time, the Ombudsman turned to the Minister of Human Resources, and the Ministry provided a methodological guide to help identify child abuse, but there was no real progress in this matter, I do not think. Because in order to avoid these cases, immediate reinforcement of the child protection signalling system is required, and appropriate resources must be provided. Unfortunately, since the Child Protection Act came into force, there have never actually been any personal, material, material conditions necessary for the law to not only remain a written word, but also be able to implement the people who are out in the field. Child protection, as such, is struggling with a very serious lack of expertise, and you know that there is a very high turnover, a high workload of workers. What is particularly sad and particularly painful is that the smaller settlements we go to, the more the signalling system is dying, there are no suitable trainings, and, as I have said many times, this story often gets stuck at the level of recognition, and the children do not get the help. I therefore believe that social and child protection care should increase the number of professionals, reduce their burden and ensure the conditions for persons and property. And that's where we came to a problem that we talked about a lot, and if it's up to me, we're going to do a lot of it: that's that, technically, for seven years now, workers' wages in this sector have remained the same. In Hungary, the average wage for social workers is below the minimum wage, it is practically the worst-paid sector in the national economy - this is the social and child protection sector. But, of course, in addition to financial recognition - which I think is a fund, and should happen immediately - professional training and further training are also essential, so this is another important step that you should take, precisely so that children are recognised as at risk, so before anything happens, they realize that there is a very serious risk factor here. And here's another moment that has to happen, and that's cooperation. As I said, in this situation, there are a lot of bodies that need to cooperate with each other, and there are no mistakes. If either one of them makes a mistake, either one of them doesn't act in time, doesn't recognize it, it's basically a child, so to speak, it could cost him his life. Responsibility should be clarified, and if there is a delay in this signalling system, the rules on liability should be tightened up, I think. I do not know what the government thinks of what I have said, but I think that if we say - and I say, and the May Other is Politics believes - that the interests of children are above all, then in these areas, training, recognition, cooperation, sanctioning failure, wage increases must all happen within a closed deadline. One more thing I ask of you: there are civil society organisations in this country that work specifically to ensure that these cases do not happen. These people are working under very difficult conditions, and they're doing a job that if I wanted to put it short, I would say it's priceless. Because if we are talking about domestic violence or child abuse, we also need programs to prevent it. These prevention programmes, which need to be organised, educational and information campaigns, need to strengthen awareness of the rights of people, who have the right, where they can ask for help, and education programmes that do not go wrong, as has been the case in the past, but which help prevent these situations. I very much ask you to support professional civil society organisations that deal with such activities, and to recognise that a strong Hungary needs civil society organisations that are committed and are working to help us with our work, with the work of lawmaking in such a way that we can be more effective in the laws that we are creating here. So I can tell you briefly and succinctly that the ratification of this convention cannot keep you waiting, it is important and good that it happens, but this is the tip of the iceberg, there is a lot to do, and I am asking for the cooperation of the government and all the parties to do so, because what we are talking about is one of the most serious problems in the world. Thank you.
u2015-06-12-38	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have the opportunity to speak to independent representatives. I give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsa Szelényi.
u2015-06-12-39	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Violence, whether physical, spiritual, or sexual, is the most terrible thing that can happen to man; it is the most brutal act against human dignity and human rights. Suffering violence causes lasting psychological damage, making it impossible to learn, work, a balanced and harmonious human life. For some time now, violence has been considered unacceptable in public space. [[11.10]] But behind the walls, in homes, in schools, in dorms, in nightclubs, just where people and especially children should be most protected, violence continues today. For ten years, the Council of Europe has addressed the issue of violence against children, and during that time there has been a great deal of experience in what exactly needs to be done in order to prevent this very depressing global phenomenon, which is still very typical in today's world, even in the middle of Europe. How do you stop it, and how do you sanction it? This Council of Europe Convention is an extremely important proposal for civilization. The UN Convention on the Protection of Children's Rights of Universal Importance, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which has been in operation in Hungary for decades, is developing this proposal in a very important way. It defines how states responsible for protecting the safety of children prevent violence, children exposed to violence, and how to punish perpetrators. Today children are constantly exposed to violence on the Internet, in reality, in virtual space. My fellow Members have talked a lot about how widespread this is. It is certainly a very happy news that the Government has brought this convention to Parliament, and this Council of Europe Convention can be proclaimed by Parliament. The treaty will now be accountable to the Hungarian state, which is responsible for ensuring that children's human rights are not violated through sexual harassment. It's very, very important and good. Sadly, we cannot be fully satisfied either by us, or by the children at risk, or by the adults working for them and loving them. The legislative amendments, which Mr Secretary of State has long classified, are the technical minimum in terms of whether or not this international agreement can be implemented. A lot of progress has been made, this is indisputable, and I think this is very important. But there is no progress on matters that are really important, which need to be developed, with this announcement, compared to what is now the case in Hungary. In many respects, the Convention will not be implemented or implemented. I will give you a few examples of the areas where I think further action is needed. On the one hand, the collection of data, statistics and information is not appropriate. Until we know very much about this complex area, it is very difficult to determine where to intervene in the process. There is a lack of preventive information. What do we mean by that? I'd like to discuss that for a minute. Preventive information is always a broad public campaign in the case of violence. It means that children who are at risk meet on the road and on the road with information and calls about what they need to know, what to look after, in schools, pediatric clinics, nightclubs, buses, metros, everywhere should be a continuous, permanent campaign: don't let yourself, don't believe him, come here for help. This is what we call preventive information. There is nothing of this in Hungary today, because the state has never taken this matter into its hands, and civil society organisations that deal with sexual violence against children and other violence cannot conduct such a huge campaign. There is not enough training for professionals in the laws behind the Convention, and the others have already talked about it a lot. Even though there is a written protocol, if there is no continuous and permanent training of professionals, everyone, everyone involved, all professionals. The ability to recognise violence must be included in teacher training, kindergarten training and training of various child protection professionals, in principle and continuously, as this is a developing area. There are no services to assist and support victims. Let's say a sexually violent act turns out, and the unsub gets busted. But what happens to the kids? Where's the system that's been supporting them in their incredibly difficult psychological state, helping them? Who Helps Their Parents? If the parents are the perpetrators, then what happens to the children? So we don't have enough support systems. It is not enough to have institutions, there must also be mechanisms. There is no treatment and follow-up of potential offenders. Even though we are introducing a statute of limitations for many decades, if nothing happens to them in the meantime, it is unfortunately not a good enough solution. Perhaps the biggest problem is the lack of therapeutic treatment for the victims. And, unfortunately, the generalization of the techniques of victim-friendly and child-friendly procedures is still few, and the 26 child-friendly hearing places are very excellent, but obviously they cannot cover Hungary as a whole. So what I really want to know from the Secretary of State is what the next steps will be. I think we're halfway to a good solution. I would like to hear your opinion in more detail on how you will continue this work. I find it very problematic that, prior to the publication of this Convention, public bodies were not informed, negotiated, consulted with the actors who dealt most with children who suffered violence in Hungary today. I am not aware that the government would negotiate with the management and educators of the SOS children's village, UNICEF, the Eszter Foundation, the Baptist Love Service or other similar organisations representing children who have suffered violence. If there had been such a situation, and these professionals could have looked at today's presentation, they could certainly have found the mistakes that unfortunately remained in the proposal. There are terms that are not known in the Hungarian legal order, such as a specialized authority. Today, we don't say that he's a child care professional, we say that he's a child protection professional. The term corruption is included in the proposal, for which organizations have struggled for years to get out of Btk. and fortunately got out, so now we simply do not use such oldtimer terms and basically blame victims. There are completely incomprehensible paragraphs, such as Article 7, it is worth reading, it does not make any sense, and there are a lot of spelling errors in the presentation. I think it's worth a little research. There is one other thing, when preparing the draft, the government did not take into account the partitioning principle contained in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. This is a very difficult thing for the Hungarian government, I'm sure it is. When there is generally no consultation with civil society, it is particularly difficult to imagine that children should be consulted. Well, that can be arranged. International organisations are also able to organise a conversation with the children, the most affected in such a case. You just have to go to a school or two, go to some foster homes, have kids in state care, talk to them about whether they have these kinds of problems, and you can see them more clearly. You can talk to kids about important things. These are all things which, unfortunately, do not make this proposal complete, and contrary to what the Secretary of State has said, that this announcement will allow the Convention to operate in Hungary to a large extent, unfortunately it cannot be done in full. Nevertheless, I think that this is an important initiative and, of course, I will definitely support it, but I would also like to say to Mr State Secretary - I would say to Mr State Secretary [[Dr. Robert Répássy: I hear my ears are over there.]] I'd like you to answer me how the next steps will continue. [[11.20]] This proposal can be accepted when we do not regard it as the final state of a process, but as an intermediate state, as I think this proposal is appropriate, and we listen to the Secretary of State how he will proceed. I agree that this is a cross-party, collective, civilisational step, and I am pleased that the Hungarian Parliament will adopt this proposal. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-12-40	I now give the floor to Mr Sebestyén Csító as a pre-notified speaker.
u2015-06-12-41	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State said in his exposé that there have been legislative changes in the past period, which have actually checked certain thesis in this agreement. I would say that what solutions have been found at the legislative level in the past, most of them have been pretense measures, some are only partial solutions to the problem, and there are problems that have not been dealt with by the government at all. It was counter-proposals to negotiate with Parliament, but since these were not on the agenda, unfortunately the Parliament could not discuss these important steps either. Let us go in line to see what measures have been taken on this issue. A lot of people have mentioned the child protection warning system. We have received quite exhaustive information from fellow opposition Members, but I would like to add one or two more things. I think that the legislation should have included either the training system already mentioned or the tightened sanction system against those who do not exercise their obligation to signal as members of the signalling system. However, not only must we pay attention to sanctions and training, but we must also pay attention to the protection of these people, because those who are part of the signalling system do not receive adequate legal protection, we can talk about a family care provider, we can talk about a protective woman, because in many cases failure to signal is not an indiscretion, or the fact that they do not recognize the fact of abuse, whether it is sexual or other abuse of the child, in many cases this is not the problem, and in many cases it is not the problem of irresponsibleness, but in many cases the problem is fear. Because if we buy a family care provider or a protective woman, that family care provider or that protective woman has to go out in very many cases, where these cases may happen and do not make the signal, does not make the motion, does not take the first step in raising the child, because she is afraid of possible consequences, afraid of what will happen to her, if she has to go back to that area and perform her duties, or even afraid that her child will not be harmed as a result of her otherwise taking the steps in accordance with her professional obligation, and set off in the direction of protecting the abused child in that family. With regard to partial solutions: good, all right, I say it is legitimate to tighten the sanction system against such offenders as much as possible. Part of this is that, in addition to professional reasons, such crimes in Hungary have become inexorable. But we can talk about what my fellow Member, István Apáti, has already said, because we must be honest about the fact that the possibility of chemical castration has not only a preventive nature, it has not only a preventive nature to remove sexual motivation from the mental world of these sick people, but also the other nature of the deterrent, because a person with a pedophile tendency may think three times that he should go on this journey if he knows what kind of sanction he can expect. And if we are talking about a system of sanctions, whether in terms of this kind of prevention or other prevention, which I have brought before this House several times, whether in the form of a question or in the form of a proposal for a decision, I think that if there is a system that operates in a country that is regarded as the citadel of democracy, and I think that it works very well in many states, then I think that a country which has been calling itself a democratic state, whose leaders over the last 25 years have always considered the United States of America as an irresponsible and, in my view, unfairly, as an example, as an example to be followed, we have followed them on a great number of issues in which we should not have to follow them, and that is to be the disclosure of the data of individuals who have committed a pedophile crime in relation to certain personal rights. By the way, I think that what is in certain states of the United States may be an exaggeration, but if it is possible to do so in a country calling itself democratic, that if I go up to a certain site on the Internet, then in my neighborhood, I see by name, address, special marks, tattoos, photos, which apartment, which neighborhood, which street, where the perpetrators who have committed such crimes live. And if I see that, then I know which neighborhood I shouldn't take my child to, if a suspicious figure shows up around the playground, for example, then I realize that he's the one who might be hunting prey again, with an ugly word alive. I say that this system can be incorporated into the European legal order. It may not be as extreme as we have seen in the United States, but I believe that the Ministry of Justice has co-difficators and legal experts or even European Union legal experts in order to make the right codification, and in some way, on some level in the Hungarian legal order, this pedophile monitoring system can be created, in everyday or kitchen language. I would also be pleased to take the first step in such a way as not to see his photo, not to know his special features, not to know his name, but at least to know that he is living in the locality or in my place of residence, or at the place where he has children, which are more infected neighborhoods, or those neighborhoods, whether on the street level or on the housing site, on the level of a residential house or block, where there is a man who has committed such a crime, and then at least in the neighborhoods where I can pay more attention to my child. But in order to be able to pay more attention to my child, I also need suitable professionals to surround my child everywhere. Because the problem is not only with the child protection system, it's not just with that, it's with a lot of other things. The Convention includes the need to place particular emphasis on education and information for children in public education institutions, so that they themselves can avoid these possible attacks and these possible advances. The reason I'm saying this is that pretend solutions have been created is because one of the most important stages of this would be school social work, which is true, that it is now in the law and not mandatory. Family services can perform this task in public education institutions, but that is not enough. We know very well that support for family support services, if not falling year after year - even though it is a year when it is falling - but its support is not increasing. We know very well that there are multiple cases even family care providers of family support services. How do we expect them to be conditional on the law to ensure social work at school? That's part of it. The other part, from a professional point of view, is that if we want effective and normal school social work, we need a full-time school social worker in each school, who knows the children who go there, who can monitor their lives, their events, their possible signals, whether they are pronounced or unspoken, to prevent child abuse, to establish a relationship of confidence with these children in a verbal way, but by building and using this trust relationship, he can launch a more effective and acceptable information program, and not only in terms of child abuse or sexual crimes against children, but also in terms of drug prevention, including criminal prevention, and even more. It would therefore be justified not only to allow family support services to provide social work at school, but also to have a social worker at each school. What I would like to point out is who has the skills and who can do what. [[11.30]] In many cases, we see that, for example, a uniformed policeman should recognize whether there has just been a sexual crime or no sexual crime. What has already been mentioned before is that very often workers in the sphere or in the social field are not trained to recognize these situations, so how can we expect a uniformed policeman in a given situation to recognize these situations? So there's a huge problem, and there's a lot we need to do to make that change. And what I have already said is that we need to further refine the elements that we already have, I think, and we need to fulfil them and actually make them effective. What isn't in the law, we have to put them in, whether it's about tightening up, whether it's about more protection, because it can't go on. And since many people have mentioned that we have not only to deal with legal retaliation, but also to deal with the fact that we are trying to move these offenders from this career with professional and medical help, we also need to think - and many have already mentioned this - about what will happen to children who become victims of such a crime. And it doesn't matter the degree here, it doesn't matter if the parent is the perpetrator, he forced the child to watch something, starting with whatever he did sexually, there's definitely an injury. These children should be treated and not only should they be managed by the social services system. The shortcomings in health care are also evident here. It is not difficult to imagine, and it does not take a professional to know that if a child becomes a victim of such a crime, he is psychologically seriously injured. How are we today in Hungary? How many specialized children's psychiatric institutions are there in Hungary? There is a need for the establishment of county psychiatric centres; and not only because of this problem, but because we see the growing generation, our children in a large number of mental and mental states. There is a need for psychiatric centres in the county. We don't see that anywhere in the budget either. Just as we do not see a lot of things in the budget, which is also stated in the Convention, and to which even Mr Secretary of State referred in his expozee that it has found a solution, and whether the laws in force now or the following year will guarantee that. We may be guaranteed by the law, but until we see the cover of this in the budget, we do not see what these professional programs will be made of, until - as I have already said - these are just pretend solutions, they do not provide a real solution, balloons without air, if I have to live with such a nasty analogy. I'm asking you to consider what I've told you. We started on the road, even if we were uncertain, and we may have taken half a step, but I think that half of the remaining hundred steps are just half a step, so let's move forward and take the remaining ninety-nine and a half steps. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-12-42	I will now give the floor to Congressman Péter Harrach for the first time in a normal time frame.
u2015-06-12-43	Mr President, Dear House, First of all, allow me to make a comment. The current and the next item on the agenda is linked, and perhaps this could have been discussed together, if it had not required a separate discussion, both proposals. On the other hand, I am pleased that the political debate between the opposition and the ruling parties has not been the subject of this present proposal, but that professional issues, even if sometimes in the form of criticism, have marked the negotiations so far. We condemn all violence because it is an attack on human dignity, especially at an age when violence has become common. But I think I'd rather talk about this at the next item on the agenda. Violence against children must be highlighted, as violence against the most vulnerable, whether physical abuse, sexual abuse, or psychological burden on children. However, the analysis of the reasons - because we have actually expressed our views on the phenomenon and we cannot say otherwise in any of the parties we are in - may be left out of this discussion today and allow me to say a few words about it. On the one hand, we see social causes, because, as I said, the number of acts of violence has generally increased. I see many people trying to bring acceptance and apology into this debate, not in Parliament, but outside. I don't want to go into details, but it happened on one of the radio stations, a caller mentioned that in a Scandinavian country, there have been more than a thousand acts of violence recently, which was rare in that country: rape of women. The caller noted that this was usually, and not usually, exclusively done by immigrants. This was obviously part of the debate on immigration, but what the reporter replied was shocking, because he had excused and almost accepted this phenomenon. This is particularly scary when a journalist who claims to be liberal does this. [[Intercom from Jobbik: That's who they are.]] But first of all, I would like to draw attention to personal reasons. There has been talk of a sick personality, its conduct is clear, and its isolation from society and the protection of children is also important. But I would rather warn or draw attention to reasons that are partly related to a morally unbalanced personality. And let me mention here that moral relativism is spreading as a phenomenon, and obviously education also has an important role to play here, because awakening responsibility in a person may prevent such phenomena, if not in the perpetrator, but in those who are responsible for the protection of children. And I have to mention something else, which is once again on the next agenda, but it should be said that the protective role of stable parents is extremely important. Then I would like to explain in a little more detail the next item on the agenda that was carried out in 2012 for the U.S. Ministry of Justice, which shows the extent to which physical, sexual and emotional abuse of children in different types of relationships is affected. Here I would highlight the protective role of married biological parents, as in the case of a thousand children, only 2.5 percent of children who are physically abused, 0.7 percent of sexual abuse and 1.8. To what do we compare this? An unstable, disorderly parent, so when a parent is living in a casual partnership, physical abuse occurs in 26 cases, i.e. ten times as high as those in the marriage of biological parents. The same rate is even higher than sexual abuse and emotional abuse. Quote a sentence from the study:. The presence of the biological father in the child's life reduces the chance of any type of abuse. These are interesting things. So it is worth considering how the identity of the perpetrators, which appears not only in the crime, but also in relationships and all other human relationships, affects this very serious crime, the crime against children. Thank you very much. If you'll allow me, I'll continue on the next agenda. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[11.40]]
u2015-06-12-44	I now give the floor to Congressman László Teleki in a normal time frame.
u2015-06-12-45	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I really think it is very important what Bernadett Szél talks about more than once to have the ratification of the Istanbul Treaty, because that would solve the issue that we are discussing, because I think that the suppression of violence and the protection of children are definitely included in the material that we want the government to take seriously as soon as possible and start pre-fishing it and even signing it, because it would certainly provide protection. For which I asked for the floor: I do not agree with much of Sebestyén Cutter, because he is trying to stigmatize, narrow down the nature of the problem to social groups. I am thinking of the tattoo, that there should be more attention and a better look at the groups of people who may be more vulnerable. That is what I meant, if not, then I apologize, but I think that we should not be talking about social groups, but we are talking about a whole problem when we are discussing this agenda. It is a problem that, I think, definitely affects a large part of the country. Because you can see that with the reasons that Mr.Péter Harrach was talking about, I think it is possible to agree and to agree, but there are many more reasons why domestic violence or sexual abuse against children can happen. Most of the time, because it is necessary to realise that the displacement from society of the various ethnic groups - and this is not only about ethnic groups, but also about social disadvantages - is a phenomenon that we must face very often, and something must be done about it. So this reason, the underlying cause, most of all, I say that unemployment can be traced back to a very large extent, because you can see that if you are excluded from society, you are looking within the family for the support that you have, and many times you cannot find the way back to society. Therefore, I would consider it very important that we do not avoid the issue of employment in this law, because I think that the reason, too, could be the root cause. The other is very important that we often say that public engagement cannot be avoided. Yet, what I see is that in many cases, there is a lack of protection for children and families who are in such a situation, or they may at some point be able to slip into such a situation. As a result, I think it is very important to confirm public engagement, that it is very important, for example, to try to strengthen family support networks and child welfare services even more, because their work, I think, is very important in this circle, because they can really focus on prevention, and they can also focus on how much more preventive prevention could possibly be introduced in those families that could definitely reduce violence. Therefore, it is very important for the State to be there and to try to strengthen the fact that they have a role to play and that strengthening the level between parents and the institution would certainly improve the situation. The other - which I think very few of us have said, but I think it is important - is social engagement, because it is important to have the signalling systems that we may see not yet. Social engagement has an important role to play in this area, because when we think about the fact that people are very often immune to discovering or dealing with events around us, I think that we should go to the social need, so that sensitivity is definitely present in this matter. I trust and see that society has the capacity to receive, but there is still a great deal to be done by the family support centre, by the policy, by the public authorities, in order to move society into a more sensitive way, because then it can be said that the protection of children is much better and stronger in society than we are seeing now. Therefore, I consider sensitivity to be important in this area as well. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-12-46	Now it is possible to make two-minute comments. I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind.
u2015-06-12-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I listened to the KDNP speech with a little strange feelings, because I think you should know what is absolutely clear: this is not about a stable relationship or a stable relationship, and how likely there will be child abuse, but there is an underlying reason behind it. And I think, my fellow Member, Harrach, that in your speech you have failed to reveal the underlying reason for all violence, whether it be towards women or towards children or towards anyone, if we are talking about domestic violence. It's a phenomenon we see in the absence of gender equality. So, that there is a female-male hierarchy within families, this is a very important trigger for that phenomenon. And until it is achieved that equal opportunities for women and men can be fully and fully fulfilled in this country, there is very little chance that we will be fighting domestic violence, violence against children and violence against women. So it is possible to think about stable relationships, or even about who has a job or who doesn't have a job, or what relationships are like at home, but I think that this will lead my fellow Members' thinking the wrong way. Rather, we should examine the oppression that people are being held behind closed doors, the oppression that the weaker ones, who are less capable of defending themselves, whether they are women or children. I think that your policy should aim to make the situation of women so that they do not suffer any disadvantage for a man and can protect themselves and their children. Thank you.
u2015-06-12-48	Mr Sebestyén Csító has indicated his intention to speak in a two-minute and normal time frame. Which one would the congressman like to live with? [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] Then I'll give you the floor in a normal time frame. (To be indicated:) Excuse me, while Congressman Péter Harrach applied for two minutes, I now give the floor to Congressman Péter Harrach first.
u2015-06-12-49	I speak only on the right to be addressed, not for the sake of debate. No wonder the LMP doesn't like the KDNP comment, it fits in the hat. But you're not arguing with me, Congresswoman, with an American survey. I have not ranked among the reasons whether a kind of mentality, say, a mindset against women contributes or not. I was just trying to run a specific survey. This is about facts that are hard to argue with. So if I'm looking for the underlying reasons, like you said, then I'm going to have to look at the reasons inherent in the personality. As I said, sick behavior is one person, and the other one is a personality, perhaps lacking responsibility during upbringing, which appears in all relationships and in all our actions. I think it is as difficult to argue with this as it was with the aforementioned survey. But thank you for your comment, I'll put it in my mind. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-12-50	And now in a normal time frame, Congressman Sebestyén Craftsman has the floor.
u2015-06-12-51	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. First, I would also like to respond to some of the things that have been said in the debate. First of all, I would like to say to my fellow Member, Teleki, that they should quit in the MSZP faction, that if we say rabbit, then we are racist because we must be thinking of the white rabbit. I've set an example of a special character. I think anyone can have a tattoo, regardless of gender, religious affiliation, but ethnicity. I didn't refer to anyone, but I mentioned the tattoo as a special feature, which I don't have a negative opinion of; anyone who wants to wear it should wear it. So this was in this area. [[11.50]] The other is what Bernadett Szél said; I think that if someone sees the traditional family model as an example and wants the traditional family model to be the ruler, otherwise said, in a Christian country, it does not mean that there is no pre-law and social equality between men and women. I think that in a traditional family model there is full equality between men and women from both a social and a legal point of view, and it does not always have to be pointed out, because this is where we finally get to the liberal wrong roads that have raised their heads in Europe, that we cannot raise children in kindergartens according to gender identity, or that teachers cannot raise children according to gender identity, because they will decide at the age of 18. I don't see any contradiction here. In fact, there are a lot of laws that discriminate more towards women - and rightly taking into account certain aspects - against men. And why I asked for the normal word is another important issue, which includes the category of pedophile crimes committed towards children, which is a very serious phenomenon in Hungary today, and that is trafficking in human beings and trafficking in girls. In a girl trade, accepting what the tabloid press says many times, we accept that this is nothing more than taking girls to Switzerland, Italy, the Netherlands - wherever they are, in fact, as slaves, and forcing them to do sex work there. Speaking of professionals and people working in the profession, unfortunately, we can see in Hungary today that it is a far more serious phenomenon than that which is that women and very often girls under 18 are being held captive, in fact as sexual slaves, mainly in remote villages, and very often with the consent of the parent, with the knowledge of the parent, many times because of intimidation, and many times, unfortunately, we have to say it - ugly phenomenon, but it happens - as a result of financial gain. This is similar, but much more serious, than what my colleague, Tamás Gergő Samu, was very concerned about keeping a bitch in the previous cycle. In fact, it is a bitch-keeping, but it is a very serious hustle against which both the authorities and the civilians and the members of the social care system must act together and very hard so that this cannot happen in a small village, hidden away, because I consider what is happening in these cases to be one of the most serious crimes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-12-52	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Szél for a two-minute comment.
u2015-06-12-53	Thank you, Mr. President. If you do not believe the politician, then I ask you to consider - I say this in the direction of Jobbik and KDNP - I will quote this from a series of communications from professionals, so I will quote a few lines from a longer communication. It would actually be appropriate to say this for the next debate, but that our fellow Member Peter Harrach treated these two a little bit together, and I will say this instead, because I think he will show you how I think about this issue and how many others think about it, and it will help you to look at it from a different perspective, which, in my view, is more forward-looking, not in your opinion at the moment, but I think that this matter is so important that we are willing to look at it from the point of view of each other. I quote: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In essence, the proposal ignores the nature of violence against women and violence against couples, and the fact that it is due to inequality of power. This is why it takes the initiative that relationships lead to violence and therefore advocates the introduction of psychological resilience, the strengthening of fighting methods, and the introduction of services aimed at the acquisition of life skills instead of the introduction of professional solutions. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I wanted to add to this because I would like to protect you from qualifying a relationship and drawing conclusions from it, rather than examining how the nature of violence, as the experts wrote, is composed, because I think that we here in the legislation must do the most thorough work in order to cope with this phenomenon. That's why you have to look at the phenomenon from each other's perspective. Thank you.
u2015-06-12-54	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi in two minutes.
u2015-06-12-55	It's a very interesting conversation that we're having right now, and we're clearing up important things. For about 25 years, violence has been seriously addressed by many people, and it is very clear that violence is always about power. Always! Even when violence takes place in war, even when someone kills or beats someone, even when someone yells at someone, even if they don't listen when someone talks, because they don't hold it... they're all techniques of humiliation from power. It's an extremely violent form of sexual violence, but it's all about power: you're mine, I can do whatever I want with you. That's what sexual assault is all about. It's no coincidence that his victims are the most vulnerable people, children. More of the children who are in the care of the state than those who are in the family, but also in the family, especially where the mother is being abused, there is no protection for the child. Kids can't protect themselves. Therefore, children's right is a fundamental human right, and it is therefore up to the state and the state institution to protect them from the type of power interventions that can reach them anywhere. It's the nature of power and violence. That's why it may be, but it's not worth talking about what temperament, illness, or bad adjustment the unsub has. These are unacceptable things in our culture, and this is how they should be seen. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-12-56	I will give the floor to Congressman Sebestyén Cutter in two minutes.
u2015-06-12-57	Thank you very much. Then I will conclude this debate on my part, but I would just say to Bernadett Wind that by reading what he has read, he has not supported what he has said, because in one or two sentences by experts there is no gender. I believe that domestic or inter-relationship violence or a tyrannical and oppressed system is independent of gender. In all cases, he did not support what he said to the woman, either in the direction of the man or in the direction of a male or a female child. I agree with the structure and dynamics of domestic violence, I agree with what you said in the relationship, I just say that you didn't define gender, so that doesn't support what you said before. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-12-58	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to the author, Mr Répássy Róbert, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-12-59	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, I am in the fortunate position that all speakers supported the adoption of the bill, so this is obviously an international convention that we all agree to announce. The debate that has emerged, I think, partly goes beyond the publication of the Convention, partly clearly raises further steps, partly legislative and partly implementing measures, but we are now sitting in the legislative process in the first place, and we need to approach it on the legislative side. Therefore, I really do not want to argue with anyone, because basically everyone was supportive of the proposal. I would like to talk about one thing that struck my ears, and I am forced to take the opposite position, namely that Congresswoman Zsuzsa Szelényi used the expression that all of this is just what we are doing here - so legislation - is a technical minimum. That's the expression he used. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I would like to say that I can give a long list of criminal law measures, criminal law changes, and that part of this bill is also subject to a criminal law tightening, which is not usually considered to be a technical minimum. Criminal law, as they say, is an ultima ratio, so, after all, it acts in the toughest way against child abuse by lawmaking, using the hardest means, the means that it can and should only be applied to a state, so any criminal remedy resulting from the Lanzerote Convention, or even in recent years, is a tough, decisive action against child abuse. Because, of course, you, you are absolutely right that it would be best to prevent child abuse and violence in general. [[12.00]] You are absolutely right about that, but we all know that one of the ways to prevent it is by strict punishment, one way to prevent it is to deter offenders from committing such crimes. Because I share the opinion of those who regard this type of crime, child abuse, especially sexual abuse, as a disgusting crime, as a cruel crime, but in contrast, there is a need for deterrent tools. So I'm not saying it's the only one, but it's supposed to be an ultimatum in the toolbox of the rule of law. So I do not think that we are just discussing a technical bill, and I think that what we are doing now is a very substantial step against child abuse and sexual exploitation. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-12-60	Thank you, too. Welcome. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it was possible to submit the amendments by 4 p.m. yesterday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal for a decision setting national strategic objectives to promote effective action against contact violence will follow up until closure. The submission is H/5048. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Katalin Veresné Novák, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Madam Secretary, please.
u2015-06-12-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Dear House, I think this is also a good time, because it was really interesting to hear the previous debate or conversation, in which a number of points have emerged that might be interesting for the present proposal. Then again, we stress that we are talking again about violence, and we are talking about relationship violence. This is an existing phenomenon in Hungary, in the same way as in other countries of the world, and the fact that we have put this on the agenda today is that today we are talking about this issue, as was the previous item on the agenda, and this is just a sign that we are facing this phenomenon, dealing with it, dealing with it in particular, and paying attention to it. I would also like to emphasise our commitment to show that violence is not acceptable to us. Relationship violence is not acceptable either. There are women and men, and we are talking about young and old alike, and even more serious is the fact that there are children who regularly suffer physical or psychological abuse of those around them. And there are people who are severely, regularly abused, these vulnerable victims who need more attention, who need support. I would stress that their situation, their problems, cannot be considered as a private matter even if they happen behind closed doors, but they can be regarded as a common cause for all of us, which is why I consider it important to talk about this issue in this circle today in Parliament. Once again, I stress that the Hungarian Government rejects all forms of relationship violence and we are committed to taking action against it. Nor can we stress enough that when we talk about relationship violence, we are on the side of the victims, and we are above all concerned with the interests of the victims. And I would also like to have a substantive, substantive, professional debate here, which is not about a party political battle, but is really about the point, and we are talking about this phenomenon, and in this connection we can share the same or different opinions. Here I would say that, in our approach, we have a threefold objective in this regard. On the one hand, it is very important that victims who are in such a situation, who have fallen victim to the violence of relationships, should be helped, given support, understood that there is some help, that it is worth hearing their voices, that they should not have greater visibility, that they can expect to receive assistance and protect these victims. This is a very important objective for us. At the same time, and I would like to relate here to Mr Harrach, and perhaps there is a difference of perspective between us, I believe that we cannot talk about this issue without talking about prevention; we do not talk about prevention, we do not talk about the initial period of thinking. One of the things we have to do is to give the victims priority support, to give them this help, to have a supply system to which they can turn, and who is already in this situation will get help there. But I think it is at least as important to talk about these issues in a long-term perspective at a small age. Let this be a part of formal and informal education, help potential victims to prevent their becoming victims and strengthen families, strengthen relationships, and create stable communities that are less likely to become victims of relationship violence, let us say, family members. I firmly believe that we have a responsibility in this regard, and that we must pay attention to this issue in the same way, and that if we speak openly about this problem, that if young children and young people see that they are able to talk about this problem, we can do much to prevent it. And, of course, we also have a third task, and it is a liability that if such a violence has occurred, then how can we hold the perpetrators accountable and retortion. This is a long-term task, it is a long-term task that has not been created today, but we have been faced with it for a long time, and it has defined tasks for the past years and for the period ahead. I would just like to highlight some of the elements that I think it is worth fixing for ourselves. Sometimes we talk about victims here like they don't have anywhere else to turn. It is currently in operation, and now there has been a national crisis intervention telephone centre available to victims 24 hours a day. And here I would also point out that just now, in 2015 - on our initiative - the National Media and Infocommunications Authority issued a recommendation to the media that, if they report on cases where victims of contact violence are involved, they should always indicate the availability of this crisis phone, in order not only to put the deterrent on the agenda, but also to put assistance next to it. So there is such a crisis telephone centre, and there is a complete crisis supply system that was created by governments prior to us, and I think it was a very good thing, it was a very good initiative to start, but we had to significantly expand the capacity and number of this network. So in recent years, we have created four new crisis centres, so there are now 14 crisis centres in Hungary where we can receive these victims. And I can say that if a person is in a crisis where he is seeking help, then a person in a truly vulnerable crisis cannot remain without support and assistance, he will receive the right support, he will get into such crisis centres. Crisis centres provide a solution for a transitional period by nature, which is why it is important that we also have a system of half-way exit houses, and we have created this legal background in 2011, which is why these half-way exit houses can now operate with an adequate legal background. It has also been an important change in the area of crisis care that the supply area has been broadened. This means that if you are affected by such abuse, if you become a victim of contact violence, you can not only be placed in a crisis centre in a given settlement but also have a national supply obligation for crisis centres, so you can get help elsewhere. And we also have a secret safe house, where we also provide that anonymity, full protection, to the victims in real trouble, in a very serious situation, to highlight them from their residential environment, where they are exposed to danger, in such a secret safe house with complete anonymity and complete secrecy. By the way, this supply system was fully monitored in 2014, we looked at its operation and accordingly issued a new professional protocol that these centres should operate in accordance with. What I was just talking about, the prevention, I wouldn't go there in very, very much detail, I think that all of you here know what the steps we have taken and do every day to strengthen families are. And here I would like to point out that we have launched a prevention programme specifically for relationship violence to inform young people, children aged 14 to 18 years. [[12.10]] Otherwise, in cooperation with a prominent representative of civil society, we continue to do this preventive work and go to schools, and civilians go to schools and talk about this phenomenon. You all know that, as of 1 July 2013, relationship violence became a stand-alone criminal case. I think this was once again a very important step that our government has taken in order to make contact violence an issue that has its own criminal record and which can be duly sanctioned accordingly. I think it is important, as the Member mentioned, that there be awareness-raising campaigns. I don't think it's fortunate, by the way, if we keep reminding the children that he may be affected by any kind of relationship violence, but that this phenomenon needs to be talked about from time to time, I think it's important. By the way, we have been supporting a campaign initiated by civilians - I don't know if you know it, this is the, notice! The campaign - which was specifically about not keeping quiet if you become a victim and ask for help. This type of campaign has been supported in the past, and we are currently running a campaign of this type, and we will continue to support it in the future. Here I would like to say a few thoughts about the Istanbul Convention, because this comes up from time to time, and I think there is no order in the head in this regard. It is also contradictory what the congresswoman here has already said in this matter. When we ratify an international agreement, they say that this is just a technical matter, and it will not change anything or much, and when it is just that ratification is in progress, they say that if we ratify it now, then suddenly everything will be resolved. I don't think that's true. These are serious things, and I think we should take ourselves seriously. The signing and ratification of an international convention is a process; it is a process in Hungary, and it is a process in every Council of Europe - we are talking about Council conventions here in Europe - in each Member State. It was just us, our government, that signed the Istanbul Convention in 2014. If we sign an international agreement, and this is also included in the Government resolution confirming this, then we will also have a task of ratifying it. So this ratification is a task for ourselves. We will perform this task nicely, at a normal pace. A working committee has been set up to deal specifically with this issue. I ask you what the right solution is. If we ratify an international agreement in such a way that we can undertake to implement it, and if you know the content of the Istanbul Convention, I am sure you know that it also provides for a number of obligations that are not, by the way, a question of money, but we must be prepared to provide data services to the Council of Europe, for example, that are based on their system, which we do not currently collect in this form in Hungary. We still have a number of tasks that all the wallets need to be properly prepared for. We carry out this work all the time. I would be happy if you would allow us to work calmly on this matter, and there wouldn't be any hysteria, I must say, that sometimes it's a hack campaign, which I think is bad for the case. What are we talking about here? We're talking about violence here. We're talking about victims. If we make this look like a party political battle, then I'm afraid that this will deter the victims, which will harm them. The Istanbul Convention has been signed and will be ratified. Like all the other Member States of the Council of Europe, we are doing this at our normal pace. You must know the numbers, 37 of the 47 Member States of Europe have signed and 18 of them have ratified them. So I would not say that Hungary would be lagging behind in an international comparison that could be blamed on this matter, or already known, I have repeatedly described the periods for ratification and entry into force in the various Member States of the Council of Europe; if we look at these, we are also not, to say the least, behind. I say that the Istanbul Convention is an important document, but at the same time the time for ratification must be provided for us. I would also say here that next year's budget will increase the funding of crisis centres by one and a half times. This is currently included in the draft budget for 2016 and in the House right now is the amendment of the Child Protection Act where the secret safe house is defined as a specialized form of service. So these are the small elements that I would like to highlight from the events of the last few years in this respect, and I would stress that since the next EU development cycle is about to start, this is the 2014-20 Human Resources Operational Programme, and here we will allocate a total of HUF 2.3 billion to the specific purpose of preventing contact violence and the institutional system receiving victims. I think it's about as much as it's ever been. In this context, we will also increase crisis centres and the number of halfway exits and this network system. In the same way, we continue the preventive work, the continuation of awareness-raising campaigns, and what has already been discussed, and I also consider it very important to train the professionals working in the system on a continuous basis. This source will continue to provide additional funding for this. Then briefly, what is the context of submitting this parliamentary resolution, beyond that. We have a 2003 parliamentary resolution. The 2003 parliamentary decision defined tasks for the government at the time, mostly until 31 March 2004. We have now looked at this Parliamentary resolution of 2003, we have reviewed it, we have looked at the points that have been fulfilled, which are not. I can give you an idea of what the extraordinarily fast track was, what has already been achieved, the priority protection of abused family members in criminal proceedings, the establishment of uniform protocols, which appeared in various recommendations, how to expand and modernise the secure asylum network, which I have been talking about so far, the national crisis intervention telephone centre, how to provide additional assistance to victims. I would not like to make these points... - I would be happy to ask any of them, I would be happy to tell you which points we have taken a good look at, that most of these points of the resolution have been met in recent years. We looked at what was achieved, what was not. What has been achieved, we believe that it is not worth once again being defined as a task for us at present, and what has not been achieved, we have once again included it in the new Parliamentary resolution proposal. So they appear again. However, the current Parliamentary resolution is not like the 2003 Parliamentary resolution in that it does not define tasks for us for a year, but we have summarised the principles on which we intend to work in the future and on which we keep our future work important. I would like to point out this, and I am not going to go into the detailed discussion of the 2003 resolution, and I would like to move on to a few points of the current parliamentary resolution. The current Parliamentary resolution proposal states, inter alia, the following: The Parliament rejects all forms of relationship violence and commits itself to the cause of the elimination of abuse. It states that relationship violence cannot be considered as a private matter. He says that relationship violence is a crime, a serious threat to the harm of marriage, family and children. It also states that relationship violence affects women and children disproportionately, but men can also become victims of relationship violence, and - and I think this is also a very important new aspect - children are also victims of relationship violence as witnesses. asks the government to take certain measures on this basis, and, yes, here we emphasise the importance of prevention, which has not previously appeared so strongly. We also stress that the interests of children should be taken into account more closely, which was also not a priority in the past. We say that the number of crisis centres and halfway exits should be increased, so we also define a task for ourselves to increase the supply system. The aim should be to provide services to prevent contact problems from leading to violence. This also emphasises the importance of prevention and prevention. Here we mention how important it is to ensure continuous training of professionals, so we also define a task and awareness raising. We also define for ourselves that relationship violence should also be an issue that we have in mind as a whole of governance, and that is why we look at how we can enforce it as much as possible in the whole of government work. Overall, I see that the fact that we are able to talk about this issue is another reason to put this issue on the agenda and to express our joint commitment to act against the violence of relationships, and this is a phenomenon that we have to face and fight against, I think it is something in which, I trust, we can count on your support as well. Of course, I count on the support of our own fellow Members as a priority. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] [[12.20]]
u2015-06-12-62	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, and the speakers will be held in the first round. First, I give the floor to Mrs Mónika Dunai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-63	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group supports the parliamentary resolution proposal tabled by Minister Zoltán Balog, as we support everything else, and we have supported all other proposals, a proposal for a resolution and a bill aimed at combating any form of violence. We believe that we believe that violence can only be effectively fought with the help of reason and heart, with the help of the soul, with the help of the pure, rational mind and the attentive soul, sensitive to all problems. It is important that when we see something, we do not turn our heads; it is very important that when we hear something, we interpret what we hear, and more importantly, that when we see something, and when we hear something, we always say, not just us in Parliament, but everyone in this country. And I ask my fellow Members to recognise the problems together in today's debate, to identify the problems and to try to find solutions together. The proposal for a resolution, which lies before us now, serves this purpose, fighting with clarity and attention, with an attentive soul, and taking action against all forms of violence. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz Group strongly rejects all forms of violence, including contact violence, and is committed to eliminating abuse. Relationship violence severely destroys our society and our nation's future, the family. The new Criminal Code, which entered into force on 1 July 2013, has made relationship violence a separate criminal case. The new facts have been created in the light of social and social relationships where the crime poses a real threat to marriage, family and children. The phenomenon of relationship violence is treated by the current policy of the profession much, but much more complexly than previously, defining more areas of intervention and ensuring synergy between individual measures. In addition to the protection and assistance of victims and the accountability of perpetrators, priority should be given to prevention, prevention of victimisation and offender, the provision of continuous training of professionals as soon as possible to identify signs of contact violence, the resolution of phenomenon-related vision and the social approach. The present proposal aims to set national strategic objectives to promote effective action against violence against relationships and to guide all sectors involved in the fight against violence on the ground in designing and implementing strategic documents and measures based on them. The proposal for a resolution, as the secretary of state has already said about it, is a rethink of a parliamentary decision that was now drawn up 12 years ago in 2003, and a further reflection of the main lines laid down there. The present proposal for a decision is therefore based on the proposal for a decision dated 12 years ago. The Parliamentary resolution proposal relates to the national fight against contact violence, which is the basis for setting national strategic objectives. It is worth mentioning here the most important principles which are contained in the proposal itself and which our group fully agrees with. One of the most important elements and principles in the proposal is that the proposal for a decision recognises the importance of protecting human rights for all. He says that relationship violence can't be considered a private matter, that is, a public matter. The proposal for a decision strongly rejects all forms of relationship violence and commits itself to combating abuse. It acknowledges that forms of contact violence are wider than mere physical violence. It states that relationship violence affects women and children disproportionately, but at the same time - and this is a new element compared to the previous proposal for a resolution - it mentions that men can also become victims of relationship violence. The resolution proposal confirms that relationship violence is a crime, a serious threat to marriage, family and children. The proposal for a decision raises a new element, namely the fact that children may become victims of sexual violence as witnesses, not necessarily only when they are validated or used as victims. It's a new element. I recommend it to all of you. The proposal for a decision states that it is necessary to continue mutual and forward-looking cooperation between individual government bodies and government and non-governmental organisations. It is also highlighted in the proposal that mental health should also be of prime importance to families at all levels of society. The development of mental health and prevention of mental disorders are important, not only in the social interest, but also in the social interest. Compared to the previous one, the new Parliamentary resolution will include him in the victim circle of relationship violence, as I have said, and he considers men and children to be victims - I cannot stress that more than once - if violence is not direct to them. The new parliamentary resolution confirms that relationship violence is a felony and declares psychological health as an important social interest. The Parliamentary resolution proposal highlights as one of the basic principles the need to continue the cooperation of the organisations concerned, recognising, of course, the process that has been due to the activities of the previous governments since the previous decision in 2003. In addition to the conventions that have been taken into account in the creation of a new parliamentary resolution, the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Elimination of Violence against Women and Relationships, commonly known as the Istanbul Convention, aims to combat serious violations of human rights in this way and to impose zero tolerance against violence. The Convention is the first legally binding document in this area, and we do not have much to wait for it to be ratified, as Mrs State Secretary mentioned. It sets international standards and action obligations, but it is important to emphasise that it is not a substitute for national legislation based on local circumstances and local experience. [[12.30]] The ratification of the Convention is under preparation. However, the adoption of the new parliamentary decision is necessary, nonetheless, to supplement it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to highlight some of the points from the proposal for a resolution, from the one that has now been tabled and from the 2003 one that has already been implemented and is therefore not included in the present Parliamentary Decision. There is another group of cross-checks between the two decisions, which continue to exist, which define continuous, permanent action, which is also proposed to be included in the present 2015 proposal. And there is a group of completely new provisions that, in the last 12 years, have not seen or thought about tasks. I would like to refer to the first of these, which have been achieved, and the third, which contain new moments. The 2003 Decision provided for the introduction of a distant provision in Hungarian law. It should be introduced and ensured that the procedures of the courts and the authorities in cases of domestic violence are fast-tracked. These have been fulfilled since then. The request to strengthen witness protection rules has also been fulfilled, and additional witness protection rules have been laid down by the Parliament. In 2003, this Parliament asked the Government to establish, with the involvement of the relevant social organisations, the protocols that police, child protection bodies, social institutions and health institutions are obliged to apply in the event of domestic violence. These protocols have also been established, and their continuous maintenance has been ongoing ever since. It is also ensured that legal representation is established. Within the framework of the State Legal Assistance System, victims of domestic violence should receive legal advice, legal representation before the authorities and courts - this has also been ensured by the Parliament. Let's look at what new provisions are included in this proposal for a decision - some of which I am forced to miss as time goes on. The present proposal for a Decision provides for the provision of financial and human capacity for effective action against contact violence. This is a very important element, which has not been included in the 2003 Decision. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: It is not in it now!]] This proposal for a resolution provides, and I would like to stress once again that Parliament must provide the means to do so in its current budget. Another new element is the need to ensure the protection, support and effective and sustainable exit of victims from crisis and violence situations according to the specific situation of the victims, with particular attention to children's interests and rights. Another important element, which I quote, is that the government will need to review, by the end of next year, until 31 December 2016, strategies at the current level of government, which aim or task to combat and, if necessary, modify the above objectives. This wasn't part of it either, so we can decide it as a new element. The Parliamentary resolution proposal mentions among the newly introduced strategic objectives the provision of financial and human capacity for effective action against the violence of relationships, as I mentioned, as a summary. After all, the proper availability of resources is a prerequisite for the effective fight against contact violence. Compared to what has been done before, it is a step forward that the proposal is not directly victim-oriented, but also takes into account the fact that the child present during the violence is injured even if it is not directly affected by violence. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you all to participate in this debate, including today, in the detailed debate and then in the decision, with our clear, rational thoughts, minds and souls who pay attention to the problems. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And in our decisions, let us show that there is a purpose that everyone can fight for. In our opinion, combating violence is such a case. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-12-64	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, On the basis of this justification, the Government's proposal sets out national strategic targets for effective action against violence against relationships, which form the basis for the national strategy for promoting social equality between women and men, which is currently in force but which requires revision, and which sets out the guidelines and targets 2010-2021. It will also guide all sectors involved in the fight against contact violence to design and implement strategic documents and measures based on them. The proposal highlights, among other things, the importance of prevention, the development of the victim support system, the need for continuous training of professionals dealing with victims, offenders or potentially in contact with them, and the need for social approach. - It was just a quote, I might add. I could say that we should be glad to finally be able to talk about this subject here, within the walls of Parliament, but I must say that I am not happy with what the speakers before me have said and what we have heard here. The decision also refers in the preamble to the Istanbul Convention, the ratification of which has not yet been supported on the government side. We have tabled our proposal for a resolution several times, it has been voted out in a rather harsh manner either at the committee meeting or here in Parliament - I would say violently. It is also rather cynical that among the measures listed, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Member, Mónika Duna, to the need to provide financial and human capacity in order to combat contact violence effectively, taking into account the current budgetary options. So before the government or its representatives say anything important, they're going to point out with this one sentence that there won't be any more money here. I stress that if this were important to the government and to the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP, we would see in the budget that funds will be allocated to this. It is also interesting that, according to the government decision referred to earlier, the government should have had it by the end of last year - by the end of last year! - propose a government concept for the prevention and effective treatment of domestic violence. Compared to this, the government will now, in the summer of 2015, submit a proposal to the Parliament asking itself to carry out certain tasks. Point 2 of the Decision should be highlighted: . Review the existing government-level strategies aimed at combating or defining a purpose or task in relation to the violence in the relationship and, if necessary, amend them in accordance with the objectives set out in point 1. So basically, the government will give another year and a half to its unfinished tasks by the end of last year, with the intervention of Parliament; what it has not been able to do so far, we will give it another year and a half. Point 3 of the decision repeals the 2003 parliamentary decision. It arises whether it is not an essential element of the proposal that a decision adopted during a socialist government period should not be in force in the future, in addition to the term domestic violence, rather than the wording of the relationship violence preferred by the government. [[12.40]] It must be made clear that it is highly questionable whether the 2003 Decision has been fully complied with. Just one example: 2 (e) develop a complex, country-wide action programme to combat domestic violence in addition to sanctioning protective factors co-administered. The first paragraph of the Decision sets out the national strategic objectives needed in order to effectively combat the violence against relationships. These include a number of points in which, similarly to the wording of the Fundamental Law on social rights, only the endeavour is formulated. (g) efforts should be made to ensure the provision of services aimed at the acquisition of life skills and skills; (h) efforts should be made to ensure the continuous training of professionals dealing with victims, offenders or potential contacts, in particular with regard to the training of professionals in the child protection signalling system; (l) efforts should be made to base measures to eliminate contact violence on research, surveys and data collection; professional control of measures should be regular. In fact, I could say that it should be made mandatory. In point (j), it is stated that it is necessary to encourage all members of society to participate in the fight against violence against relationships, the strategic objective is to raise awareness and also point (b) that effective action against violence is possible through effective cooperation between governmental and non-governmental actors. However, it is not about the role of the media in shaping society or the exemplary behaviour of Parliament and Members of Parliament. The opinions of professional organisations should be monitored in order to identify other changes that may be necessary from a professional point of view. Here we can say that the news has already shown that civil society organisations dealing with this issue are rejecting this proposal for a decision. The Hungarian Socialist Party supports effective action against domestic violence. At the same time, we do not understand why such false decisions should be made, which are merely to fill the void created by the inertia of the government in relation to unrealised measures. The adoption of the Istanbul Convention, the strengthening of the child protection warning system, or even the clear and clear separation of pro-government politicians from the actions or statements made or made by their fellow party. With the amendment of the parallel child protection law, we do not see effective measures to help victims, those affected, but to strengthen the signalling system, reduce the burden on workers and improve professional standards. We could talk about raises here. The government has in the proposal a number of places only to make efforts on measures, including for important purposes such as continuing training of professionals or providing services that prevent relationships from leading to violence. We would like to draw the government's attention to the fact that it is time not only to create goals and design concepts, but also to take action. Ratify the Istanbul Convention and provide resources to it. Do not feel sorry for money, for example, to strengthen the child protection signalling system, which can be a direct and indirect instrument in the act of domestic violence. Unfortunately, I took note of the fact that only the Hungarian Socialist Party has tabled amendments until the deadline expires, and I would like to highlight one of them. H/5048 establishing national strategic objectives to promote effective action against violence against relationships. The following amendment has been submitted to Parliamentary resolution proposal No. Point 3 of the proposal should be amended as follows:. Parliament 45/2003 on the establishment of national strategies for the prevention and effective management of domestic violence. He's rescinding a decision. It calls on the Government to present a bill recognising and publishing the mandatory scope of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Elimination of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'd like to give you a reason. We find it outrageous that the government has submitted this proposal for a resolution without drawing up a bill for ratification of the Istanbul Convention. For these reasons, we believe that this proposal should be part of the call for the government to do so. The Istanbul Convention entered into force on 1 August 2014 with the aim of eliminating all forms of violence within the family and, in particular, against women. Here I have to stop and highlight, it is very important for us not only to talk about women, but also about children, elderly people and people with disabilities. [[István Szávay: Doesn't that apply to men?]] - and men, too. The entry into force of the Convention was subject to ratification by at least 10 signatory countries, including at least 8 Member States of the Council of Europe with 47 Member States. I will press for another 15 minutes, and then I will list some data for my better fellow Members to calm them down. The Convention has already been signed by Hungary, but has not yet been ratified. The provisions adopted under the Convention will, according to the Council of Europe, increase the protection of women and contribute to reducing violence against them, lead to more rapists being investigated, prosecuted and more of the perpetrators eventually put behind bars. Everyone must act to improve the lives of many women and children, elderly and injured, who are victims of violence simply because they are women or children or injured people or men or pensioners, said the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe on the entry into force. The Istanbul Convention sets out in particular what specific provisions should be made by the countries Parties to prevent and eliminate violence against women, from sexual harassment, domestic violence, forced marriages and female genital mutilation. The implementation of the Convention shall be monitored by an international expert group. In Hungary, one fifth of women over 15 years of age, or nearly 1 million women, become victims of any form of physical or sexual violence against women. In Hungary, domestic violence causes at least one woman to die every week and at least one child every month. In Hungary, women suffer an average of 35 beatings before turning to help. Most people, however, never turn for help. There are 25 undiscovered cases in Hungary. There are still millions of children living in violent families in Hungary today. We know that children are also the victims of domestic violence. Children raised in violent environments suffer not only lifelong psychological injuries, but also a disadvantage in their studies, thus damaging their chances of life. Domestic violence is therefore a fundamental public issue, which the government must do everything it can to curb. The Istanbul Convention contains effective solutions to reduce domestic violence irrespective of cultures. The Council of Europe's Committee on Gender Equality has also prepared an overview of how the Member States of the organisation are dealing with the eradication of violence against women. The study shows that Hungary is one of the 9 Member States of the Council of Europe where law does not yet guarantee that the prosecutor can prosecute all forms of domestic violence. [[12.50]] In Hungary, the law does not yet require the prosecution to prosecute all forms of sexual violence. According to the study, as a single EU Member State, there is no professional expert intervention programme in Hungary dealing with men who commit violence. The Committee also found that Hungary is one of the two EU Member States where police officers do not receive specific regular vocational training, how to act in the event of violence against women, how to intervene in such cases or how to prevent violence. In several cases, even in connection with the crime in Debrecen last year, the police themselves blamed the woman and not the perpetrator. This happens in many cases in Hungary. It is time for Hungary to submit to international standards, especially when domestic rules, procedures and bodies are unable to stop violence. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-12-66	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sebestyén, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here.
u2015-06-12-67	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I, too, would like to begin with technical information at the beginning of my speech, complementing what Mr Péter Harrach said at the previous item on the agenda. I am saying that there are three items on the agenda during today's sitting, which are closely linked, and the third is about amending social and child protection laws, in which certain elements deal with halfway houses, crisis hostels. So I could say that, technically, there are three items on the agenda that are close to each other. I see this proposal for a resolution, and unfortunately, I remember that I have been a Member of Parliament for five years, but so far I have been convinced that such proposals have been made by writing down beautiful words, writing down beautiful objectives that we will not achieve or half accomplish. I could say this about a number of areas of expertise that we have discussed, and we have always had to face the fact that we have not reached even a quarter of what we have set as a goal. Of course, we can agree with the objectives set out in this proposal for a decision. I am particularly pleased that it is a separate point that when we talk about violence in a relationship, we should not talk about violence only against women, because it does not matter who the person who is a member of this relationship is, if he is being raped, we must act with the same vehemency and force. Let us not forget that if we started to take into account the specific - of course, the data that we have just heard - that is shocking - if we consider the different calculations, the proportions might change slightly if we talked about the distribution of gender in the victims of domestic violence, because we do not forget that very often the elderly man becomes the victim of violence in the relationship, or in many cases it is the son, the brother, who becomes the victim of violence in the relationship. So it is very good that this sentence is included in the proposal for a resolution, because this problem must also be dealt with in a complex way. But let us look at the situation in Hungary today. It is pathetic and disappointing to see how many crisis shelters or shelters there are where victims of violence can be directed. And since there are so few, and we know very well that abusers are resourceful many times and very often cheat the system, they can easily find out from the very few that the family member fleeing from them is in which part of the country he is at. I believe that the development of this, the expansion of this to many times, is essential. By the way, it is possible that on the next agenda, the passage from the amendment of certain social legislation, that crisis hostels will be operated by the temporary homes of families, will lead the story to this track, only here we must pay attention to the fact that there is a national coverage of the temporary homes of families, but not the special institutions to which this task could be burdened. In one case, it could be burdened with similar costs, in my opinion, as setting up new institutions, namely the need to professionalise workers in this area, to provide them with special training that will enable them to be fit for this task in all respects, both psychologically and with appropriate expertise and background information. Here, even law enforcement training is essential for those working there, because we know very well what life situations and situations can arise at one of these hostels or at one of these accommodations. So it is essential to develop this. We have heard examples of what happened compared to 2003, what needs to be included or what might be left out of the decision proposal. Just because of what's done, there are things that don't really work in real life. At the previous item on the agenda, I have already mentioned the police, which have a very important role to play in this system, starting with the fact that when a policeman goes out on an alert where there is a report of inter-relationship violence, many times even a social professional has not been prepared to determine or decide whether violence actually took place in a given life situation, and in many cases it is not even possible to determine who the actual victim was and who the perpetrator of the violence within the relationship was. If, in many cases, no professional can give a realistic consideration, how can we expect a police officer arriving at the scene to take the appropriate next steps? And what are the appropriate next steps? Of course, one part of this is to separate the abused relative from the abuser as soon as possible and to eliminate the life situation as soon as possible on the basis of which - although this is also stated in the resolution, and this is positive in it, just to say something positive sometimes - in many cases not only the abused victim is the victim of this story, but also the child is the victim of this story, then he may also be injured, not physical injuries that can affect his whole life. So how to take those steps to separate the relatives from each other. One part of it is, I say, that it is essential to increase the number of crisis areas. The other, the institution now in force in Hungary, the institution of distance keeping, in which the police are not really able to participate effectively, is not very effective. Otherwise, the EMMI, or together with the Ministry of the Interior, should consider the reasons for this. The reasons for this are, as we have said in many cases, that proper training, proper preparation for this will not be given to police personnel, or the other option is that the other legal background, other legal provisions, do not exist in the institution of distance. It is possible that regulation may need to be a little more specific, a little more practical, so that it can actually be implemented, because the fact is that if the institution of distance is functioning properly, we can save lives, as with any other action on the subject. We should look at ways to make this more effective. I could also say here, as I said on the previous agenda, that without a well-functioning child protection warning system, we cannot be much better at combating violence in the relationship. Another aspect that I wanted to say, which cannot be included in legislation, is that it has nothing to do with legislation or executive power, and that is the attitude of citizens to this issue. As long as we are in the situation in Hungary today that the neighbor, although he hears that family members are subject to daily aggression and abuse by a family member, but does not answer the phone, does not call the authorities, does not call the competent staff of the social care system or the child protection care system, or even on the crisis phone, tell them that he or she has experienced this in his/her neighbor, he/she has sensed this, but he/she swipes one and says that this is the private affair of the family next door and I cannot interfere, well, until we cross this line, this change of attitude, we do not step forward, unfortunately many cases remain undetected, and that due to the lack of undetection and repression, in many cases he/she turns into tragedy. [[13.00]] Therefore, it is also possible from a communication or other point of view that the government has a responsibility to take the appropriate steps. Although I consider it a very important virtue to respect the other's private life, but the change of perspective must be done, it is important to know what is the case when it is not the respect of the other's private life that I intervene but rather the saving of life, the saving of relatives and, by the way, my duty as a citizen. I don't want to bring this up too much, but I think I'm gonna have to make a parallel. If the amount that the government has now spent on national anti-immigration consultation and a giant poster campaign instead of a giant poster campaign to prevent, prevent or detect such intra-relationship violence, or national consultation, these terrible figures, which we have already heard in other people's speeches, could have been reduced. We may be able to achieve from then on that these points described in the proposal for a decision would not only be horse-zung, but we could also move towards implementation and implementation. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-12-68	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Szél, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-69	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to briefly and succinctly join the opinion of the civilians published yesterday that I would like the government to take decisive action instead of a resolution. Instead of discussing this resolution in the Hungarian Parliament, I would prefer that we be able to negotiate the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. All the more, I do not understand what is going on in the government's house, because it was the Ministry of Justice itself that recently published a statement in which he wrote that, depending on the government's decision, the draft law could be before the Parliament in spring 2015. It was also learned from the Minister of Justice that the task force responsible for preparing violence against women did practically all the necessary work, measured the legal, institutional and financial aspects and presented the report to the government in April. So the fact that we are talking about a resolution and not about the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, I can only admit that the government does not support the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. However, whether you like it or not, there is nothing better than a more effective defense, prevention to tackle the problem, and there is no better solution. So I appreciate, as a step back, that instead of raising the issue of ratification of the Istanbul Convention to the level of government, you have practically presented a resolution to the Parliament. In addition, your commitment is also strongly questioned by the fact that the opposition proposal for ratification of the Convention has already been rejected once. It's got a pretty negative reaction, and I'm sure you've noticed it. But there is their own MEP, Mrs Pelczné Gáll Ildikó, who also did not understand why the Government did not support the proposal if it agrees with the objectives and intends to ratify the convention. Following the vote - just to take into account the timing - opposition representatives re-submitted the proposal, and then the government decision that entrusted the Minister of Human Resources in 2012 came out of the branch to review the strategy of domestic violence at the time of socialist governments. There was a deadline for that, too. In 2012, the Minister of Justice received the mandate and should have done so by 31 October 2013. He didn't do it. Now in June 2015 we are still discussing the fact that the Istanbul Convention is not ratified, but there is a resolution that you stand for with a full chest width, but what I see as quite problematic. Let's see what exactly is the problem here. Let's talk about problems in particular, because instead of pathetic words, heart, and soul, I want to talk about what belongs to the law. I honestly don't understand why the government is doing what they're doing. I really do not understand that if you are constantly committed to combating domestic violence and violence against women at the level of words, then why is it that we have to discuss such a decision in the Hungarian Parliament? There was this Parliamentary resolution of 45/2003, which you are now replacing with this resolution we have just discussed. It is also strange because this is a bit of an apple and pear case, because the earlier strategy was built on the massive involvement of those involved. The current national strategic objectives have not been agreed with anyone. He has a point, he does have a point, which he does, but all the others don't. In this way, you do have a small handhold to say that there is some sort of negotiation, but I'm sorry if something 99 percent is not settled and 1 percent is, then this reference is a slip. In addition, the whole resolution itself was made under conditions that were not agreed, but it expects cooperation from everyone. If I'm going to ask someone for cooperation, I'm going to try to involve you in the process. Fidesz-KDNP apparently doesn't do that. Here I have come to a point that is critical and truly critical. We signed the Istanbul Convention, which happened last March. The signature is different from ratification. This is very important, for the sake of those who may not have gone deep in this story. In March 2014, Hungary signed it. In doing so, he vowed not to make laws that would go against any of the provisions of the Istanbul Convention. This resolution goes against the Istanbul Convention on two points, and I would like to tell you which are the two points. On the one hand, the Istanbul Convention states cooperation with social and civil society organisations in Article 9 - of which, of course, I know the text, because I asked for it in a public interest request for data. You have not discussed this decision with social and civil society organisations. In addition, there is another point, which, in my opinion, is very, very problematic. Our fellow Member said that all financial, human and financial resources would be provided. But that's not what's going on in this resolution. In this decision, it is said that the budget options are taken into account. This loophole for the government, that at the moment, if you feel that you want to spend the budget differently, you will tell those who want to ask for money for victim protection and prevention that the budget does not allow that. I know, so I'm playing this game with you guys for real. I have tabled a HUF 8 billion amendment to the budget to finally ratify the Istanbul Convention. It's been voted off, and I always get that the socialists have indebted the country, and you have to fix it, so there's practically no money for anything. Meanwhile, I see the budget for 2016: well, there's money for highways, stadiums, there's money for Eximbank, there's money for Paks II. So, there's money here for everything you're thinking, and in this resolution, I see it here, in the context of the budget options. This goes against Article 8 of the Istanbul Convention, as it states in black in white that the Parties must provide sufficient financial and human resources for the proper implementation of the programmes. So I think we need to think a little bit more about this resolution text, because I'm sure by signing the Istanbul agreement, we've already vowed that we're not doing anything contrary to it. I see this as a concern on two points. Now, let's get back to a conversation we had earlier. Not so long ago, on Monday, the Secretary of State told me that she did not understand why I was crying, as she said, about the 2003 strategy, and that everything had been achieved. Well, I've been looking at what came out of it, Madam Secretary, and what didn't. I'll keep the stakes on the table. You guys were able to put very little of the 13 points on the table, like a half-sided one-sided one. Once again, it's a field where you can say you've been working on it, but the practice doesn't justify it. Then let's see it through. That's where the detention facility is. It has been introduced with great difficulty, but it is not effective and it is not accompanied by training, so it is not possible for law enforcement to use it properly. So we can't keep our distance if we don't use it! Here, in the event of legislative problems, or enforcement problems, it is up to us to see why the law enforcement authorities do not use it and to help them to use it properly. There's confirmation of witness protection rules. This was also referred to by the Secretary of State. Basically, women can't get into witness protection. This is the big situation in Hungary at the moment. Actually, what hurts is that they can't even get their address to remain secret. I don't want to bring up tragedies recently, but we know that the system doesn't work in practice. There's the preparation of the professional protocols. You claim that this has been achieved. There's a professional protocol for one profession, the police don't, the rest don't. There should be. There's this crisis center network set up. Let's really talk about what's real. [[13.10]] You say that between 2010 and 15, the number of seats increased by one and a half times, and you say that there was also a secret safe house. That's true. It's just that it's still been done by socialist governments. You basically started the government by eliminating half the seats, and then, when you took it back, you communicated it as a development. Where it would have been your job to ten times the number of seats, because that is the minimum European requirement. We don't have any exact numbers. Not because I'm not thorough enough, but because there are no adequate statistics, or at least, to say the least, they can't get to the commoner, but the numbers I've seen are about having a total of 14 crisis centres in this country today, and the number of seats is 122 or 130. I can't find any more recent data on this, but I'll thank you if you create one of those databases, or I don't know, send me these data. But there's also a problem with the secret safe house, because it's itself that there's a secret address for something, so the address itself is classified, not a guarantee of security, as we know from the recent tragedy. What do you need? Zhillipes access system, 24-hour security, alarms connected to the police, cameras, trained professionals, well-trained social workers. We need all these. So there's a lot of work to be done here, I guess. Let's continue to see what's going on with the training. Whether it is prevention or treatment, training has practically ceased in recent years, and has simply been eliminated. The police should be trained, the courts should be trained. The practice seems, my honourable pro-government colleagues, that in many cases abused women do not turn to the police because they have no confidence in the police, because they feel that the police are only going to intervene when blood flows, there are no effective restraining measures and that the victim is often blamed. I think that this is why it is very important - and you must also acknowledge that - to provide training and help to the police and the courts. You know, I talked to the police, and he told me that he would be so grateful to get this, because he himself is struggling with this problem, he doesn't know when to help, when to hurt, he can't exactly assess it. Well, it's none of his business. He's got to be taught that. As I mentioned, targeted statistical data collection is also needed. You may remember, in the early 2000s, there were these annual reports. You can't see these for years now. And what they're saying is that it's important to strive for data collections to base the action here, I don't have much. So I would like to see how, in particular, they can assess this very sensitive area, which is very important to be researched. Moreover, there is a need for major changes in legislation here. I have been a Member since 2012, and in recent years I have tried to move forward, and my party has also tried to convince you that because it is an opposition, do not vote down or take over, write that Fidesz-KDNP and take it through Parliament. For example, there is the question of mediation. Law currently allows mediation in cases of domestic violence. This is not in line with international standards, and it is not by accident. So this is the international professional standard that there is no mediation. He's in Hungary. Don't be. Be nice, help me. The other is that in many cases victims are required to participate actively in criminal proceedings. They also do so in cases where there is no guarantee of public prosecution, so that they do not give it the opportunity. That's a problem. Victims can't be put in this position. But there is also the regulation of parents' custody of children, which basically provides opportunities for the abuser. That should be changed, too. So these are three things, mediation, the active involvement of victims in inappropriate cases, and the creation of the abuser, so a kind of custody of the child that doesn't give the abuser any rights, these are prompt measures that you need to be able to take. Let me say that I understand that you are communicating with progress here, but you should know that the statistics have not changed that a woman dies every week as a result of abuse in this country. So the victims and the civilians who deal with these people didn't feel any improvement. This is not a political attack on you, but it is a reality, and I want you to understand that, because I have always said and I confess that this is a matter above parties, and it would be very important for you to feel the country and feel the women, children, men, everyone in this country that you are not only speaking out against this phenomenon, but you are actually doing it. I am very sorry, but I must say to you that this resolution is not about that. I really think it is possible to argue that the Istanbul Convention is being ratified by other countries, I do not know how slowly it has been ratified, and that even we have time. No, we don't have time. On the one hand, I have said several times, and I will tell you that Hungary is not at the beginning, so when the Istanbul Convention was opened for signature, we did not immediately stand there to sign it, but we waited for years. It was opened in 2011, and we signed it in 2014. On the other hand, the countries to which you refer were signed at the beginning. I think that the fact that we signed it later puts even more responsibility on us so that we can ratify this agreement as soon as possible. I am very sorry, but I cannot accept from you that there is no money or financial resources for this. I think if the taxpayers were asked if they wanted to spend money on this, I'm sure everyone would say yes, that's what I'd be happy to do with my tax dollars, prevention, protection. And on top of that, it's not really that hard for you to look at the fact that the Istanbul Convention is really a good treaty. It's being transposed into national law by the Ministry of Justice. They've been communicating that they've done everything. From here on out, I really don't understand who or who in the government is resisting that. I think that that man or those people have a huge responsibility. Thank you. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély applauds.]]
u2015-06-12-70	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-71	Thank you very much. We will continue this very important and very interesting debate this morning. It is a complex matter of ratifying the Istanbul Convention, and everyone who knows this issue knows it very well. In itself, the fact that the government has come up with a strategic proposal for a parliamentary resolution does not seem problematic to me. The question is whether this will take things in the direction that wants to go beyond the status quo where we are now and where we are going. For a few words, I will also address the 2003 strategy, which this resolution, which has been tabled, is trying to overcome. I don't see what Mónika Dunai said so vividly that what didn't happen would be followed here. So for me, this is a serious deficiency in this. It's okay that one strategy is replaced by another, but I think that some serious things have not been fulfilled. For example, a restraining order was introduced in Hungarian law in 2006. Unfortunately, however, the institutional system has not built up for this. The system is extremely slow and cannot fulfil its function. The thing is, there are hardly any cases like this, and the national court itself has suggested tightening the preventive distance, so what we have doesn't work. So I think that the experience of the past few years should be more carefully monitored and that the steps that are needed should be taken. If the court says so, then you can obviously believe it. Therefore, the current situation in Hungary is that although there is a restraining order, victims have to live with their abusers on a permanent basis. Extraneousity is again not fulfilled in public authorities and courts at all, there are no accelerated procedures in such violent cases. In particular, there are many lives involved, that is the case. Instead, as Attila Stummer, once again, the head of the department of the national judicial office says:. The procedure should result as quickly as possible, so that at least in an impossible life situation the temporary solution can be delivered quickly, but the current court process is not suitable for this. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So these are judicial official records from which it is clear that today's system of distance in Hungary simply does not fulfil its function. At least these two things are something that, unfortunately, is not properly guided by the given strategy. My biggest problem with this proposal is, what has been said several times, that when we have before us such a broad and high-quality consensus-based protocol as the Istanbul Convention, then why should the government create a strategy based on another logic. [[13.20]] Mónika Duna is wrong when she says that the strategy goes beyond the Istanbul Convention, it does not go beyond it. The fact is that the Istanbul Convention records far wider processes than those included in this current proposal for a decision. So a reverse logic should be applied. I think that this should be considered. So if you want to do good with the commitment you're talking about, then let's do really good. I think that if we have a tool in our hands that works and is good, then we should follow it, there is no need to try third passenger proposals. It is a very important thing that is completely lacking in this proposal, and it is included in the Istanbul Convention that it defines everything. I would definitely like to discuss that for a minute. What is violence against women, what is domestic violence, what is discrimination, they're all in it. We don't have to discover the Spanish wax from scratch. I would like to mention this particular use of the word, which has recently spread in the Fidesz circles, and you have also used it today, this particular relationship violence. It doesn't mean anything to me. It reminds me of T-Mobile's ads. I honestly don't understand why this is introduced. I have to add, there's a world-wide discussion of violence against women and domestic violence, and there's a dictionary here today, and everyone understands the same terms. The Istanbul Convention is not called "relationship violence," so I very much hope that this will not be the official Hungarian translation, because then it does not correspond to reality. It says violence against women and domestic violence. Why? And more people have been arguing about it today. Yes, there is also violence against men, but violence against women is characteristic of the world. This is the characteristic of Hungary, and this is systematic, and it is simply impossible to compare the two things. There is no need to reject the fact that men are sometimes victims of violence, but that is not generally the case. That's why this convention is about violence against women and that's why it's about domestic violence, because it's the typical thing. And these are very precisely defined in this agreement. People who speak language, I think they will be able to make sure that this convention has the same title in Hungarian as in those foreign languages as it was born. However, the Istanbul Convention is also a very practical instrument - and I would have liked to have seen this through a strategy - so clearly what the task is: to prevent violence, if it does happen, to protect victims of violence, to punish and sanction perpetrators, and to organise coordinated, multi-territorial policies. That's the job. It's not easy, I think, but its logic is very clear. It is incomprehensible to me why the strategy does not contain this division, which, for all of us, is a clear line for civilians, for the people, for the people, for the women, for the abusers. So I would very much like it to appear in a strategy on violence against women and domestic violence. I would like to mention a few things that the speakers mentioned earlier. About safe houses: all safe houses must be secret. It's such a fundamental requirement. I have been to many safe houses in Hungary, including those that are secret and those that are not. The Ecumenical Charity Service, Baptist Charity Service, Red Cross is the main provider of these institutions. There's an amazing difference in the safety of all the children and women in there, and it's just not like you can compare them to the fact that you can call someone right away and find her husband, and they're out front of your window at night, or they don't know where she is. So if a few of these are secret, unfortunately, they're not good enough, they just have to be secret, it's a very, very important thing. Katalin Novak talked about education. I very much agree with that, of course. I am very happy to see with someone the newly introduced textbooks from Fidesz, which have been introduced in the last few years in Hungarian public education, where there is any such thing in it. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Nowhere!]] If you can show it to me, it's gonna be a huge reward for the Fidesz, obviously. But there's no such thing in the etikatan books, there's just no such thing. These are some serious problems, I think. Several times today, it has occurred to me how much children should be intimidated by violence in raising children. It was a dilemma for me, too, because I'm a parent too, I have more children of all ages, the truth is, it can be done pretty well. So if I were you, I wouldn't be afraid of information. One thing you have to teach children is that what is comfortable for them, what is uncomfortable for them, cannot be accepted, and then you have to speak to a safe adult. And I'm telling you this in such detail because that's the logic of preventive campaigns. The way you talk to your kid about important things, you put it on the poster. It's not that complicated, the point is that you shouldn't accept what's not right for you, and violence is never good for you. And by the way, we typically know - I worked with children who suffered violence - that they all think it's normal and he's responsible. This dilemma must be eliminated, and, of course, you have to tell them what to do and turn to a safe adult. If your parents hurt you, you have to go to the teacher, if the teacher hurts you, then the parent, if the schoolmaster, is the principal. So it's not that complicated, it's great to organize campaigns like this, there's a lot of good examples in the world from all over, it's a matter of political will whether we do it or not. And that's when Katalin Novak finally said something about letting you work. I don't fully understand what that means. So I think this case is very important to me, and I've invested a lot of years in it, and I don't want to stop the government from making progress. That's why I don't understand what the big secret is. So over the past six months, I've been trying to find out what's going on in the form of the most varied questions, not to bother you, but to help you make my own commitment available to the government, my knowledge and my commitment. If the preparation weren't so infinitely secret, then, I guess they shouldn't feel like we're bothering you about this case when we're trying to help you. I can offer this right now, and as Mr Petneházy has already said a few days ago, it is said that some subcommittee will be set up in Parliament to monitor this matter, and I am very happy to participate in it, not to tease you, but to help you, and I think that if we want to, we can understand each other in this matter, it is a matter of political will. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-12-72	Thank you very much. Well, please, it's a two-minute lap. First, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz, in two minutes. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a very short riddle. What do the following countries have in common? Hungary, United Kingdom, Switzerland, Norway, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Germany, Belgium. Now I have been given the floor, so obviously no one can answer because they do not have the option; these countries are all, together with us, at the same stage as we have signed the Istanbul Convention, but have not yet ratified it. I know this is not the subject of our presentation, but I felt the need to note it here in a two-minute comment, but the picture, I think, is much more nuanced. If these countries, which we have now come into this group, have been working for so long to properly incorporate into their own legislation what is set out in the Istanbul Convention and to ratify it before their own legislation, then I think that anyone who says that we have a cause for shame has very strong thoughts and sentences. We have nothing to be ashamed of. One more very important thing. We were talking about financial collateral. [[13.30]] I would like to say that next year, we would like to spend more than two billion HUF of EU funds on the development of crisis centres, education training, cooperation with civil society organisations, awareness-raising campaign and much more on this subject. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] I'll continue with my regular comment. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-12-74	Thank you very much. Congressman Sebestyén, Jobbik, two minutes!
u2015-06-12-75	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. First, in a sentence, it is always a great pleasure to catch the liberals by doing so, that if they were to talk about their comma horse, they are the most discriminating and the most striking, by the way, and in many areas of life an example could be set. The other is the question of the budget. On the one hand, it was an EU resource, on the other hand, how to throw numbers here, and for a private person, a civilian, it may be a very big thing that two billion forints, but if you look at the budget of a country and look at the size of the problem, it is minimal, and a fraction of what is in this strategy cannot be achieved from this extra resource. The second is that the Hungarian language and the Hungarian legal order also have specialties, and I also don't understand that I don't think this term is a problem, because if we consider either the Hungarian language or the aforementioned Hungarian legal order, it opens the door wider than if we call it domestic violence. So I think that this should be more than welcome to address larger and wider layers, even in this proposal for a resolution. The other thing that I asked for the first time is a comment by Bernadett Szél, which is that he thinks we should remove the possibility of mediation on the issue of domestic violence or domestic violence, and I say that it should be kept in it instead, and there are situations where it should be more pronounced. Mediation must be known to start with the agreement of the parties. Okay, we know, of course, that there is a subordination relationship, blackmail relationship, intimidation, and other, but if we have properly trained mediators, and these mediation procedures are carried out as they should, and at the end of the summary, they only say that, yes, it's solved, if it's actually solved with the right expertise, then domestic violence can be suppressed in the bud, initially this process can be stopped, in a nasty way, I could say that we can stop a abusive career with normal mediation. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-12-76	Thank you, too. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, LMP!
u2015-06-12-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear colleague from the Danube, I feel very unworthy that they are reaching out to international examples in order to justify why there is no need to take action. I think that's very revealing of your attitude. I would very much like to finally understand that Fidesz is using international examples to inspire them. I listen to you in every field of expertise, international examples always come up when you want to prove that you're doing something the way we say it's not right or, for example, right now. Why are you listing countries that have not ratified them? List those who have ratified it. Hungary wants to belong there, we want to go there! I think that was a tell, fellow Member. The other: I say to my better fellow Member that I have done nothing but put forward professional arguments. I'm not an expert in legal matters, it's not a coincidence that there is an international protocol that mediation in such a situation is not a viable protocol. But let us debate about it, let us talk about it, we must submit the proposal then, we must take it on a committee, we must listen to experts, but we need to know that there is currently legislation in Hungary that does not conform to or does not follow international recommendations. I have one more question for my fellow Member from the Danube, and he said in his previous speech that it is necessary to adopt this decision independently of the Istanbul Convention. I want to understand why. If you could explain to me exactly why these terms are needed, or, in my view, very general and unaccountable proposals, in order to come sooner or later to ratify the Istanbul Convention. Thank you.
u2015-06-12-78	Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi, independent!
u2015-06-12-79	Thank you very much. Two little things, once again, to rank the countries. We do not have to compete with other countries, how quickly we are putting the Istanbul Convention into effect, we have more work to do than others. The countries listed by Mónika Dunai, a significant part of them, Norway, the United Kingdom, Switzerland, already have more effective defence mechanisms than we do. Fewer women die. We have more work to do, and we urge this because in Hungary there are simply many more women dying. This means that domestic violent murders are an important indicator because they need to be projected. It's never a one-time thing, we know it's always a result of systematic violence. So if there are many murders against women, within the family, it means that more women suffer domestic violence by magnitude than others, because simply prevention mechanisms and protection do not work. I know it takes time, but unfortunately, in this sense, examples from other countries are not interesting enough for us. I would like to say once again that this convention is an ideology-free convention. This was accepted and signed by all governments of 48 countries. I will say this specifically to Mr Harrach, Congressman Sebestyén. You don't have to hide what you have. It's okay to talk about reality. Violence typically happens against women and typically within the family, so that's his name. And I can still be or you can be the protector of the family's institution, and it won't hurt to admit that, unfortunately, violence is working in the family, as elsewhere, as in other relationships. Thank you.
u2015-06-12-80	Thank you very much. We must now return to the contributions of the speakers who have been announced. Congressman Attila Petneházy will be the first among these, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-81	With all due respect, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for the use of words right from the beginning. Like Mónika Dunai, I'd like to start with the word "soul." Yes, in this area, as on the previous item, it is very important to see with the soul, Congresswoman perhaps said so. After all, this is a very traumatic and very difficult topic repeatedly and indeed very connected to the previous one. I think, however, that it is very necessary, first of all, to state, of course, in the context of the discussion with the opposition, that every member of the Fidesz-KDNP is repudiated, rejected, rejected by all forms and manifestations of domestic and interpersonal violence. I think it was important to state this because this kind of accusation, as I said the other day, I would like to push it down because we like to move around sometimes, as if we weren't sensitive. Well, we're about to become sensitive - so it's a soul or not a soul. I myself have considered this day to be very great, because I think that even if there is no benefit to today's debate, there has already been a great thing about it that we talked about it at all. So exactly what many of my opposition fellow Members have said is that talking about it is a very important thing; it is that we call again and again. It was said that Members should set an example, perhaps Congresswoman Bango said that. I think we have a different understanding of this, by the way, from a different perspective, but we agree that what is being said here in this House is indeed a strong example, so we are a little bit, in fact, to put it this way, in fact. But if you like, I, as Attila Petneházy, reject this kind of vile, sly and very lurky offense, and in fact, I would say that in the name of all my fellow men - perhaps it doesn't fit in, in the name of every man who has done this in his life - I am ashamed, because I think it really is a terrible thing. [[13.40]] But let's face it. This particular Istanbul convention has been said several times, with its greatness and importance, and everyone has voted; that is not even a question. But I would have been able to envelop it the other day, when a series of subjects took place in this case, that the Istanbul Convention would be the main blow. Now, I would like to say and make it clear that I do not think that this Parliamentary resolution proposal is at all intended to replace the Istanbul Convention. Everyone started to circle around as a substitute, even though I think that the two documents will decide and define domestic violence - I do not fail to say - and the framework, directions and objectives of the fight against sexual violence. Several people have said that, but I think they will say it, both Madam State Secretary and those who have spoken after me, but this has been said, Madam State Secretary, that the road to ratification of the Istanbul Convention is under way. The adoption of this proposal is completely independent of it. Now I don't know why it's wrong to wear something... We can say that these objectives, which are set out in this proposal for a decision, are clear, clear good goals - to be so simple again. They're good. Then why is it wrong, why should we only attack it, I feel that a little - I hope I will not hurt anyone - out of some kind of insult, because the proposal for the Istanbul Convention has not been properly heard? The only reason you don't have to reject this is because mine's been discarded. It has been said that the justifications, the list of countries, and the list of certain data are not appropriate, she said. It is so strange that, when the pro-government lists data and statistics of all kinds, it is unworthy, but at the same time it should be used as a counterargument to list data and statistical data. So now it's not unworthy? 'Cause I've been a little confused about this debate or this debate, and I'm going to stress it again, and I think it's very useful to talk about it, because it's really serious data, and it's really terrible. As Minister Balog once said in connection with another case, this case can also be said: if only one woman or child - I add quickly - is abused, it is already one thing more than it should be; if only one case gets to the point of death, it is more than necessary. I was in a secret safe house myself. In my opinion, there might be a lot of people jumping at me... I visited one of these myself. It's been said that the encryption isn't good enough. Well, that's a pretty lifeless statement. How long can any great secret place stay secret? I'm telling you, the kind of shelter I visited couldn't stay secret either, because there are people living next to it, and it's spreading. I agree that this needs to be carefully monitored and very careful, but I would not hold that against the system's fault. And how much adjustment and all kinds of corrections are in the system and how much more and more has been inserted has been said from the point of view of the rapporteur, also from the speakers before me, which is why we have this decision, which is why we are taking such a decision. It was also stated as a justification that we signed it well later, and the countries that were listed with us were signed much earlier. Well, then I'd like to continue this logic by saying that they've been sitting in the state of signature for a much longer time, waiting for the moment after the signing status, when they'll be ratified. Now I'm going to give you a statistical data, and I'm going to add it quickly, which I've already said is that one case is one more than necessary, but if you look at the statistical data - and I'm going to take it out - 28 Member States have been examined, 42,000 women have been interviewed, 33 percent of women have answered that they were victims of physical or sexual violence. This is a terrible figure in Hungary, but - 5 percent lower. And I could add another piece of data, but I can see that I can't bring up statistical data. This, too, is terrible, terrible - I once again stress that it is not a matter of pride to be misunderstood, and it is not a matter of pride to be on the average - but it seems that something is working in this system, because we can be somewhat where that developed West is. One word, as a hundred, I think that what we should be looking at here is that with your difficulties and your stumbles - looking at the opposition representatives - you are taking a path forward, and we all want to work on it as one man without debate. I am asking you to take this decision into consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-12-82	Thank you very much. The next pre-notified speaker was Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, on behalf of KDNP. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-83	[[No microphones.]] Mr President, Dear House, This proposal is also about violence, so I would like to talk not so much about the technical details of the resolution or even the Istanbul Convention, but about the substance. And since cooperation and compromise are more important to me than the struggle, let me agree...
u2015-06-12-84	Congressman, please put your microphone on. [[It's happening.]]
u2015-06-12-85	Then, if you'll excuse me, I'll give you the whole point one more time. So this is about violence, not primarily the technical details of the two proposals or the Istanbul Convention. I was just brave to mention that cooperation and compromise are more important to me than the fight and the debate, so what Zsuzsa Szelényi outlined on the nature of violence at the previous item can be fully agreed. [[Dezső the gullible will be replaced by Nándor Gúr in the notary seat.]] What we cannot agree with is the designation, which is not an ideological debate on my part, but the following comment on the data. Why do we hold on to domestic violence instead of domestic violence? Regardless of what we think of the family, I think this is common: it is not a place for violence, but a community of love, respect, support, and we experience - and that is the main argument - that the majority of violence is not in working families, but in reefs or casual relationships. A lasting relationship and family work as a protective factor for women and children. And to support it with the data I referred to earlier in the American survey: 5 percent of men living within the family commit sexual violence, 21 percent of ex-husbands and partners, but 56 percent are accounted for by acquaintances, friends and relatives. So it doesn't necessarily happen in the family - in fact, least - but in different relationships that can hardly be called family. [[13.50]] So much for the terminological differences. And this is primarily about violence against women, children, people with disabilities, the elderly. I can accept that violence against men, especially psychological pressure, can cause injuries, but I think it's so small that we stick to the most vulnerable. If I'm searching my memory, I can't find anything that would have happened to me. Maybe it's because of my gentle wife. But I think that violence against children and women is indeed a crime that cannot be left without a word or without measures. And if we look for the reasons why we live at a time when the culture of violence has flourished - not only terrorism, but also these everyday acts - then it is obvious that we need to make changes in social consciousness. It may also be worth noting that in many cases the public is also at the service of accepting such acts, not only for news programmes, but in many cases also for children's programmes, the extent to which violence appears there. Even if we accept the opinion of professionals that this does not always lead children to acts of violence. There are a lot of links between the Istanbul Convention and the material before us, and essentially the three points that are referred to above all overlap. The importance of prevention is evident, the system of care for victims is also, and the task of justice is punishment. If we look at how the Hungarian laws show up, then we must look primarily at the Fundamental Law. It is about equality between women and men; it is about Hungary's protection of families, children, women, elderly people and people with disabilities by special measures, and it emphasizes that the child has the right to adequate physical, mental, moral development, the protection and care required for this; and everyone generally has the right to physical and mental health. If we are talking about the relationship between protection and care, then I think we should just say one important point again here. It is obviously the responsibility of parents, the family, but protection is also the responsibility of society as a whole, the state, civil society organisations and schools, and here again I mention the importance of shaping social consciousness and the role of the media. But when it comes to prevention, I would mention first of all responsibility education, respect for standards and unacceptable moral relativism, which has already been mentioned. The other large area is the victim support system. There has been a lot of talk about crisis centres, asylum houses, and I think there is no difference between us that these should be taken into account in terms of increasing, developing and qualifying for the task. Believe me, I was part of the owner of this area, and not only did I see it, but I tried to change it. The importance of this area cannot be exaggerated enough. Thus, opposition speeches, which were about to be improved, should be increased by these institutions, can also be fully agreed. I think it is safe to say that we are all looking forward to the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, and we should all be able to accept, even if this is in the form of a parliamentary resolution proposal, the material before us and its adoption. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-12-86	Thank you very much. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-87	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First, I'd like to respond to a few things. Mónika Dunai said in his first speech that we should always talk about violent acts. I would very much like this to happen within the walls of this House as a fidesz representative and a female representative. If this happens, they will not even applaud their own fellow factions smiling, but they will speak out, as he said in his speech, that action must be taken against it. Attila Petnehazy apologized on behalf of all his fellow men. I don't think that's right. He apologizes for the man who did it, and it's not enough to apologize. If you don't do it, don't apologize if you're your fellow men. I could now list a lot of your Fidesz fellow Members, which, let's say, has happened here in the last term, even in connection with the comments made by women's representatives. The problem is, I have to say again that those surveys... - Attila Petneházy said to a Western survey that we can present a little better data in Hungary than in other states, 5 percent less women said that he was abused during his life. That's because in one case, 25 unexplored ones are now being said. One of the main features of domestic violence is that it stays there. They're not gonna say it's a waste of time asking if he's been through this. It's a shame! He's ashamed, it stays inside. This is very typical of Hungarian society, that it will remain within the gate, they do not like to talk about it. Plus, anyone who even sees it puts their head in the sand and pretends they really have to stay there, doesn't have to do anything about it. This is very typical of us Hungarians. So I'd like to handle this data a little bit. There is a civil society organisation in Hungary that has also publicly published the general misconceptions in Hungary and in general about domestic violence. Allow me to use that word, even when you changed your name, that I don't think it's right. You can tell families apart here, you can argue about what family is, what family isn't. I use this to see what is the worst thing about domestic violence and abuse that we have now in Hungary. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Women beat their husbands, too. In 95 percent of the cases related to physical violence in partner relationships, the aggressive party and the abuse of women are male. Nearly five percent of us can talk about a reverse case. I'm not saying that it's admirable, because all forms of violence are reprehensible, but I've just begun to feel like that's the most important thing, that we're arguing about how many men get beaten up, and we're embezzling over the fact that in most cases we're talking about women, we're talking about children, we're talking about retirees and people with disabilities, and at least we're talking about men. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The abuse affects only a small proportion of the population. Each fifth woman is regularly abused by her partner. Every fifth one! And here again you can bring up the statistics, the number hasn't changed: one woman dies every week and at least one child abuse per month. It is easy to abuse police intervention in family matters, many women only accuse their partners of revenge. According to Western statistics, the rate of false arrests due to domestic violence - this is general - is approximately 2 percent, and in all other cases it is possible to abuse the rules. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The abuse is mostly common among uneducated, modest groups. It's a very common misconception in Hungary, whether it's the poor or the people who don't have a school. That's not true! [[14.00]] Domestic violence is present in all social groups, in all ethnic groups, regardless of educational attainment. He's nervous, that's why he hits. He's got all the family's financial problems on his shoulders, and that's a good reason for a slap in the face every once in a while, whether it's the woman or the child. That's another terrible misconception. There is no reason for anyone to commit violence against anyone else! If it was really bad for her to get beaten up, she wouldn't stay. This is also a very general misconception in Hungary. Many times, women hope that this was the only slap, we apologize, we bring flowers, and then we think that it will be resolved from here on out. That's not true. Once someone has committed it, the second will also occur in most cases, and in most cases women or their children will not leave their husbands or because of economic reasons, because they fear that they will be vulnerable from then on, and they will not be able to leave their husbands, or perhaps even the shame that this may happen to them, in many cases it will serve as a reason. I told you before, one more reason: women sometimes provoke them to beat them up. Domestic violence is caused by alcohol. That's another big misconception. Alcohol itself does not make a person violent, nor is that the most serious reason to commit violence and abuse. The other very serious reason I have just mentioned is that most people condemn domestic violence. That's one of the biggest misconceptions. No. Most people close their eyes and don't want to know. And here we can talk again about the lack of a signal system and why the signalling system is not working in Hungary. People don't want to interfere in other people's lives, and when they see it, they don't interfere, regardless of whether the woman is being beaten, the child is being beaten, the elderly person is being beaten or the disabled person is being beaten. They don't like interfering with other people's private affairs, so to speak, and in most cases they don't. In fact, there is an opinion that, from exactly what I have just mentioned, it may even deserve to be the person against whom it was committed. What happens between the walls of the home has nothing to do with the outside world. You can't interfere with privacy. In Hungary, 60 percent of the women who were murdered are married to or killed by their partners. It's not an individual, it's a social problem. The law protects the victims. The law doesn't protect victims. Madam Secretary of State said how important it is to be able to call emergency lines, whether children or abused. I think it's the rarest time they can turn to someone on a hotline. I would like to highlight the lack of child protection professionals at school. It could be one of the most important tools. Even in kindergarten. Reinforcing the system and not breaking it down. The police are arresting the abuser. In very few cases. You can still hear that when blood flows, then when that happens, we will intervene, and even in my speech I mentioned the example of Debrecen when the victim himself was blamed, and in many cases women are blamed for it. There was also a video of them constantly suggesting that the victim himself provoked him or that the victim himself committed a crime against him. We talked a lot about safe houses, and the papal example at the end of May is one of the best examples when the woman who fled to the safe house with her child was killed by her ex-wife in broad daylight by tens of knives, because in some ways it was very soon revealed where this safe house was and where the victim hid with his child. Once an abuser, always a abuser. That's not true either. We could also help the abusers by various therapeutic means. They should also be given more attention, for Western examples do show that they are concerned with these people, that they can be helped, and that they do not need to remain abusers for the rest of their lives. It's the same thing with women, that the one who's been abused once will be. No, if you rip him out of the environment, get the right help, then you can live a normal life for him. If a woman doesn't give you a reason, they don't hurt her, they just need to be able to control her. [[Laughing:]] This is also a good Hungarian specialty, that if a woman can control her partner, she will not be harmed. That's not true. Another very important misconception: having a baby can save the relationship. When the first child is born, the abuse stops. Even rough men are chivalrous when a woman is vulnerable, such as when she is sick or pregnant. Here is a terrible figure: more than 25 percent of victims of domestic violence are beaten even when they are pregnant. The abuse won't stop. 10 percent of such cases end with the child's death or miscarriage. Often, beatings start just during pregnancy or become more severe or general. There are also a number of findings about restraining women that will be used to abuse them, keeping them away will only increase the number of homeless men. Keeping away doesn't solve anything because it doesn't change the personality of violent people. I think that there is still room for more misconceptions, because there are a lot of them, and then there are separate misconceptions about rape and rape against women and children. I think that this is where we have a serious responsibility to change these misconceptions, one: it is very important to change them in public awareness, and I would point out once again what I said in my first speech that it applies here, as in the previous debate: if the government does not spend enough on the signalling system, if the government does not spend enough on training professionals, then we will not be able to move forward. Yes, I said at the beginning of my speech that it was very good that we finally got to the point where we could talk about this within the walls of Parliament. But why wait so long? Regardless of whether the government now has a will for the Istanbul Convention, let's talk about it. There is no need to be ashamed of it or hide it, as we hide all forms of domestic violence! No! It must be discussed openly, because it is present in our everyday life, and it is very, very serious. And I really want this to keep us going, and we're gonna say that this one's been checked out, and we're done here. I would very much like for us to be able to continue this, and we can talk about this in this House in a normal way. I ask Mónika Dunai once again that if he finds that any form of violence is manifested here in this House by his fellow Members, then really speak up against it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-12-88	Thank you very much. We have a two-minute speech. Mónika Dunai can speak now.
u2015-06-12-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, but not because anyone in this House has been violent. I would like to start with two points that I fully agree with myself. One of the Winds was from Bernadet, and there's no debate between us. Too bad he's not in there right now, 'cause he'd hear that praising sentence. He said there's plenty more to do here. I can't argue with that. We have this proposal for a decision because we have things to do, and we want them to be resolved, and we would like as many of our fellow Members as possible to join this goal by voting in favour of the resolution proposal. The other: I also give my colleague Zsuzsa Szelényi the truth about the fact that - in many ways, but for two minutes - I can respond to this - he said which of the Istanbul Convention and the parliamentary resolution is more, which is less. I agree that in some cases there are several Istanbul conventions. [[14.10]] In other respects, however, the creation of a national strategy is more. What is more the national strategy? It involves all kinds of violence, not just violence against women. So in this scope, it is important to create a national strategy because it involves all kinds of violence. The Istanbul Convention is much more detailed, much more explicit in the section on violence against women and on equality of women. Wind Bernadett asked me - but in my next normal statement, I'll tell you what I wanted to say. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-12-90	I'd like to ask Mr. Chairman Harrach whether he wants to speak up, or simply the button... [[Péter Harrach: The previous comment was.]] That's clear, thank you very much. In that case, Congressman Nándor Gúr is next, MSZP.
u2015-06-12-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Reading the bill, and thinking about it, I actually felt a little absentee in the first place. The lack is due to the fact that I see that the internality of the legislation of the last few years is characterised by the extension, push-up of the tasks that have not been performed, or by the withdrawal of this bill. To translate the word, which has so far been set as a goal and has not been fulfilled, it is now pushed by about a year and a half so that the goals will be met by about that time and by the end of 2016. This is serious and important because we are talking about types of issues that obviously need to be accompanied by treatment, assistance and much more in everyday life. So there are virtually a lot of conflict situations, a lot of situations that are obviously extremely difficult for those affected to experience. With regard to relationship violence, there are obviously many types of forgings, many types of relationships. There is now a relationship violence between children and children, not only in the relationships between children and adults, adults and adults. So it is possible to break down into details the way they can develop and all the ways in which they can be dulled, where appropriate. In English, the system of the structure and expansion of prevention can be done or it is worth doing. I do not want to do this breakdown, I just want to draw your attention to the fact that not only in the relationship between men and women, women and men or in the relationship between father and child or mother and child, but also in relation to children and children, and obviously there is also a need to find ways of dealing with it. Obviously, within the framework of institutional network systems, whether starting in kindergarten, kindergarten, school education, not only through education, but also through education. Either to further strengthen it, or to make the system of services such that they do not help to solve these problems on paper and on a formal basis in specific cases and situations, but on content. Look, I think that the best way to do this is obviously to set an example, the way you live your life. If there are normal conditions within a family, it is likely to stick to the child as well, and then, in relation to the child, basically, these solutions apply. But with regard to domestic violence, I don't think it's a one-way street story. There are not only male abusers who commit acts which are unacceptable and unacceptable to the ladies, but also in reverse. I do not know how they have practical experience in measuring how and how, for example, the gender distribution among homeless people is to be considered outcast by fate. But unfortunately, at night, I find myself walking the streets, perhaps at night, to meet more homeless men than ladies. I'm not saying it would be good if it wasn't. No. It would be good if he weren't an outcast. But in fact, my experience of a different kind of psychic relationship violence, not physical violence, is more of a man. I've seen much more of a disemboweled man than I've ever seen a woman who's been disemboweled. One word, like a hundred, in this respect it would probably be worth looking for prevention options, because it is not good, it is not good in a social sense, not just for the individual. Not only for the man who becomes an outcast, but also for the family where appropriate, not for the micro-communist from which he was imposed, but also for society in a social sense. After all, it is much more difficult to integrate people who are forced to live on the streets again, even on a temporary basis, with their lives. Here I no longer want to talk about their possibilities to connect to the labour market, about what offers and offers the state offers to them. I do not wish to dissect these, but my personal experience shows that it is much more difficult in this sense to further shape or re-establish their destiny. So in this sense, I think that mind-forming, and I have to agree with Peter Harrach in this regard, he also says that standards are important. That's what I think. Sure. Yeah. What we convey, what we deliver, is obviously important, and in a sense it burns into the brains of people and children in our immediate environment, most of all in the most intimate sphere, in the family. The other part is if we expand the family a bit in this regard and say we look at the immediate environment. Ildikó Bangóné says that on the one hand, the immediate environment does not really have any influence, because people generally think of this issue in a way that the family is the intimate sphere in which no one has any right or right to intervene. On the other hand, I personally think that, along with all this, if we see tragedy in our immediate environment, if not in our family, but in our immediate environment, then there is obviously some meaning in order to prevent it if we have responsibilities and responsibilities in an indirect sense. How, how, and how, he dares to intervene, to intervene, or to intervene, could also provide the type of assistance that would improve the way in which the conflict is resolved. In Hungarian, there are organisations, there are organisations in the field that can provide assistance in mediation and mediation, who are susceptible to this, and who want to play a role in this in any sense. It was also mentioned here in connection with the previous speeches about the events and things of the secret shelters. I have to say that five to six years ago, before your government, we have here in Parliament Lajos Korózs, who was then State Secretary, and very strongly supported the call to life and expansion of these secret safe houses. What I'm trying to say is that any such initiative in relation to the violence of relationships, if at the time, there are no solutions, and it creates side-by-side assistance, it is worth keeping in mind, it is worth further strengthening. Unfortunately, there are situations where immediate life-threatening situations arise as a result of conflicts, and what is really needed is, in fact, to provide security and secrecy, in reality, in secret shelters. This is a priority issue, a priority requirement. And also that, in such cases, there is obviously no need for one day interviews, one week of hiding, but a longer period of time should be available. It is now practically a maximum period of six months that is in practice, which is appropriate, and should be further strengthened. [[14.20]] Simply because in these cases there is obviously a great deal of psychological burdens to be faced, there is also a multitude of mental and health problems to be faced. In Hungarian, it is necessary to ensure that any possibility that can help us deal with the problems that have already been developed subsequently is available. In Hungarian, with regard to such secret safe houses, I cannot imagine the situation that there should not always be an opportunity for empty reception facilities to deal with crisis situations. I would therefore like to say that we are in favour of measures to combat violence, but we would like to see us not always facing push-ups in time, but if this government were to do something, it would also do so, and it would take real action in that, let us say, to put money and resources together with all the things that we are talking about, whether aimed at strengthening the child protection signalling system, but also in many other aspects. In fact, between finishing thoughts, I would like to say two more things. One thought is that the kind of vulnerability that is almost inevitable with regard to life, randomities and many other things affect who becomes the victim of the events in a sense, obviously this kind of vulnerability cannot be treated only by criminal means. Personally, I do not distance myself from the fact that, in addition to prevention, the consequences have to be met. One word, like a hundred, our common task is obviously to provide the broadest possible supply of prevention, but on the other hand, I am not a fan of consistency, so if things happen that are unacceptable according to our general standards, then there must be consistency. As such, we must also make sure that as few blind comons as possible are born in the country, that they run on four legs and hit ladies, gentlemen, or children. I don't want to say a lot of picnic examples in this regard, but I think you understand what I'm talking about. We have the kind of shared responsibility in this regard that, on the one hand, if we are able to do so, we should also personally, within the walls of Parliament, take a positive social approach in this regard and ask the media for help; the media, which has a significant influence on the multitude of people, I can say, from being a child to being an adult. And I would like to put this call for help in such a way that we need to meet as much knowledge as possible through the media, which is practically this existing, undeniable, and should not be denied in the treatment of social problems, especially in its prevention, then in its treatment, follow-up and much more. I think that if the complexity of the system comes together, from one person to another, through, say, the media's role as a mediator, then it can be alleviated and reduced the emergence of a multitude of situations that can also lead to tragedies in this country. And this, once again, I consider that it is in the interests of each and every one of us individually, in general, regardless of political affiliation, on the one hand, on the other hand, and its part responsibility. To do this, I would like to ask the fellow Members of this House to think and support it, and I would ask the legislators not to engage in procrastination laws at all times, but to make decisions between the walls of this House, whether with or without us, not to push them back in time, but rather to deploy resources in line with the objectives set, in order to minimise the emergence of these problems. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-06-12-92	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz!
u2015-06-12-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of my previous speech, I stopped saying that my fellow Member Bernadett Szél asked me to tell you why this current proposal for a resolution, the establishment of a national strategy, was needed, since we can expect the Istanbul Convention to be ratified here in the walls of this House soon. Well, that's because it's different. There is more to the content of the establishment of a national strategy, as it is about combating all kinds of violence. A slice of this is when we quote the Istanbul Convention on Violence Against Women and Women's Equality. So the two, if you like, will have to complement each other in order to gain acceptance. So this, once again, is intended not only to combat women, but also to combat all forms of violence, and in this way one becomes a complement to the other, and there will obviously be overlaps with women. There was also the suggestion here in the debate that, if the Istanbul Convention is not ratified, what a world there is in Hungary or what morals prevail in those countries where it has not yet been ratified. I think that there are, there have been, and obviously there will be, and these are very important things - we have ratified one a few hours ago today - but these alone do not mean much. Let us also think of the fact that Parliament is creating laws, laws that tighten things up, for example, within the context of relationship violence, which, as a principle, are one or another convention - let us think of the amendment of the Criminal Code two years ago. At the time, the Istanbul Convention was not signed on the Hungarian side, but at the same time we created one of Europe's strictest criminal codes, which is a very important, serious and very strict piece of law, regardless of ratification or signature. If we look back now and look at the parts about relationship violence, then everyone can know that since then, not only the Members of Parliament, but I think a lot of people in the country, we can also hope that perhaps everyone is close to the fact that there are far more serious consequences of abuse in the case of relationship violence, whether verbal, psychological or physical abuse. So I think that people are protected not only by conventions, but also by specific laws, with which we do do do it every month, every year, something to it, regardless of governments, to fight violence. There was another important issue in the debate, and I would like to respond to it myself. Several people have resented or brought up the debate that has been going on for two years and ended that we are talking about domestic violence or domestic violence. Let's just say that domestic violence is more than domestic violence. Mr Péter Harrach has already talked about this. The law introduced the notion that the ex-partner, the ex-wife, would be treated in the same way if he assaulted his ex-wife, ex-child, or child, then he could expect much more serious punishment. And not only this circle, but also the janitor and caretaker, the guardian and the guardian, this kind of tightening up. [[13.30]] As a closing thought: yes, I also agree with Ildiko Bangóné Borbély that it is good that we talked today and talked a lot about the various forms of violence; it is good that many people in this House have commented on this debate, and they have had an opinion. Let us not forget, however, that the solution is not only to talk about this problem and to list the various death statistics and acts of violence and crimes, but also to tell people and to inform people widely about what they can do if they are abused. So sometimes I felt a kind of alarm from a speaker or two. I think it's not our goal, and we can't be trying to scare people, scare kids. It is important to talk about it, but what is more important is to show you where you can turn, what you can do, and what laws we will make in order to have what supply system we have, and because we are expanding the repertoire that we can help victims of all kinds of violence. Finally, I would like to thank the fellow Members who were men, yet they considered it important to follow the debate through and perhaps even contribute with their thoughts. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-12-94	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Bernadett Szél asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-95	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, What you have said is what the Istanbul Convention knows, so if you think all of this is necessary, then you have nothing but to convince the government that we will finally ratify this agreement, because that is exactly what it is about. However, I would like to remind you that it is not a good way to start reducing its importance. I feel that now, after they have found all kinds of excuses, why this should not be ratified, they are now demoting the Istanbul Convention to what it is we have, the great international treaty when we have our own national strategy. So, it's a little bit of a stretch, I think. On the one hand, the Istanbul Convention contains very specific objectives, which are very simply accountable, as opposed to the national strategy that you have put on the table, this is neither concrete nor accountable. I would like to assure you that if you are concerned about everyone who may be the victim of violence, then Fidesz and KDNP have nothing to do but to start talking about the lack of equality between the two sexes in this country, because, as we have discussed, this is a tremendously strong feature in the nature of violence, the view that you are my property, that there is a hierarchy between us and I will do to you what I want. This is a very destructive approach, and there are specific ways to achieve equality between the two sexes in this country. This is exactly what the ad hoc committee initiated by LMP would be about, it would run for a year, it would be an expert, a representative of all parties and factions, an independent representative, anyone could come along and we would finally move forward on this subject, and in a year's time we would be able to put down a report along which we could start working. I am very sorry that I hear nothing about this, how this committee stands, but there is a promise that you will set up a subcommittee. Now, how will this happen, if the Secretary of State would mention that the two committees will operate at the same time, or we will not be given a chance to do so? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] To talk about gender equality, which, as I said, is one of the cornerstones of this problem. Thank you.
u2015-06-12-96	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi, independent, in two minutes.
u2015-06-12-97	Thank you very much. For those who are concerned about all forms of violence, I recommend that they sometimes sit at the end of such an anonymous help line and listen to what comes in - they will experience that the same stories are always the same. So when the Istanbul Convention was drawn up, statistical data and amazing experiential data were available in order to develop those institutions, not just the laws, the institutions behind them, supporting and protective institutions, which are necessary to make a meaningful change in these situations, because women's stories are completely the same as patterns. Anyone who has dealt with this issue well knows that. If men are affected, they are still the same pattern; they are mostly older men who are ultimately in some sense in a minority situation. Big, strong husbands don't usually be victims of violence in the family. Believe me, it's just an experience. So when it comes to gender, just to clarify... It is no coincidence that this convention has this title, it is not a coincidence that it contains the proposals that are included in it. No one has to worry that the Istanbul Convention does not provide men with the care that they are in trouble; it provides them, because this institutional system, recommended by this Convention, is a general, and it also gives men the opportunity to be raped if it comes into force, if they know it, if the campaigns get to them, because violence always brings the weaker ones into the role of victim. It's always the same, with any glasses, any side of it. I would like to point that to Nándor Gúr. It's a complicated thing, you can't talk about the street. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] professionals must take action in this matter, and this must be organised by the government.
u2015-06-12-98	Dear Parliament, Would anyone else like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is hereby closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if she wants to react. You have the floor, please.
u2015-06-12-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear House, I am trying to sum up the events of the past more than two and a half hours here, and it was also interesting to see that they also appeared in the opposition benches after a while, a Member came and asked; I regretted the congresswoman that most of the debate was left alone by her own faction. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP. It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] I think it was regrettable, by the way, that he showed how much interest he had in this subject, and I see that they have now also been significantly reduced in the benches of the MSZP; thank the Member, by the way, for changing his programme and for staying here until the end of the debate. I think that was interesting, too, and I think it is important that we talk about this topic. There was now a debate on a draft parliamentary resolution, although sometimes it did not seem that way; it is important that this issue is on the agenda. I would like to ask you this question: if we have a parliamentary resolution in 2003, to which we say that we believe that a number of points of this has been fulfilled, which has not been achieved, we will confirm it, or we will now propose new points of decision for the Parliament, and you will say that these points have not been met, that the Parliamentary resolution of 2003 has not been met, and I will ask you whose responsibility you are debating or questioning. In 2003, tasks were defined for the then government, which should have been completed by the end of March 2004. If you claim that these have not yet been fulfilled, then I do not know whose responsibility you are talking about here - I do not think it is the responsibility of this government. I think that this whole issue of the Istanbul Convention should be resolved, because that is what the majority of the debate was about, not this parliamentary decision. I consider it very harmful - I would like to emphasise once again - that you claim that the Government is not committed to ratifying the Istanbul Convention. I would also very much ask the Congresswoman to present a statement when we said so. You mentioned a number of things when we expressed our commitment, I believe that everyone here in our ranks has said that we consider the Istanbul Convention important, and that the Istanbul Convention will be ratified by the Hungarian Government, and we have said this several times, and I will say once again that if it was not understood. I think it's very, very damaging that you're actually saying this as if we weren't committed to it, as if we'd ever said otherwise, and now there's an amount of $8 billion that I don't know where it came from anyway, but as if it were a financial question, and anyone would say that it doesn't have the cover. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] I don't know, please show us where we said we didn't have the cover for the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. (Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes. ) I do not think that this has ever been said from government circles, nor do I think that at any time, the government, as you said, would have said, 'no' to ratify the Istanbul Convention. It wasn't like that. There were times when there was an opposition proposal that was not included in a series of subjects by the Parliament, but the government never refused to ratify the Istanbul Convention. [[14.40]] In fact, once again, we signed the Istanbul Convention in 2014, it was signed by the Fidesz-KDNP administration, and it also said that it would ratify the Istanbul Convention. In this case, it is not considered justified to state, in the interests of clarity, that, in order to inform the people, this is, by the way, a convention which enjoys the signature of 37 Member States of the Council of Europe with 47 members, and 18 of these Member States have so far ratified it, I do not know what their problem is. These are facts, and I think it is important for people to know them, and it is important for them to see that the signing and ratification of an international treaty is a serious, responsible task for a government, and we are constantly carrying out this serious and responsible task. We will continue and continue to work on this in the future, and as soon as we feel prepared for the ratification and entry into force of the Istanbul Convention, it will happen; the work on this will continue in Hungary. I want you to understand that. I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said here in this debate. On the one hand, certain civil society organisations were quoted here several times in connection with the parliamentary resolution, and this was a little mixed up because sometimes they called the same civilians experts and then civil society organisations. Then we listened to one of those, and I didn't quite understand it, that we were saying the wrong things; it was also one of these NGOs on the website of one of them was a simultaneously read misconception package or bouquet, which, of course, is important to talk about, but I didn't quite understand how it relates to the parliamentary decision. But I would like to tell you that we were talking about four civil society organisations that issued a statement on the parliamentary resolution. This is NANE, MONA, Women's Interests and Patent. I don't know, I'm sure you know how a human rights task force of the government works, and the human rights task force has a sub-group on women's rights. These working groups stood up, both the large working group and the sub-groups, so that they could participate in this in 2012. One of these four NGOs did not apply, so they did not apply, they did not consider it justified to participate in this work. The other three came forward, they were invited, and they are members of the task force at present. I would like to say that, for example, when I gave you the letter of invitation to the meeting of the task force the other day, they wrote back a letter asking if I would actually invite them. I answered immediately, and I told them that they had received an invitation, and I leave it to their discretion that they would come or not come. Well, if someone doesn't come to the task force meeting after this, then I think consulting civilians is another slippery thing to do. [[Dr. István Tiba is replaced by Dr. Lajos Szűcs.]] As well as the fact that civil society is a very wide circle. I'm sure you know, because I see that some of you are familiar with this subject, which is why you know that these crisis centers, even the secret safe house, are run by civil society organisations. So, let's not just consult them, they're the ones running this system, which, by the way, we're financing. So we add resources from government sources, they run the operation. Fortunately, they have been very experienced, and we are talking about civil society organisations with very, very serious knowledge in this area. I also consider it important that we deal with this subject by listening to and listening to the victims. I myself have sat at the end of such a help line, listened to a number of such recordings, visited various members of this care system, talking to the victims every time. This is why we have revised the operation of these centres, based on the experience of the 2012-2013 operation in 2014, we have established a methodology for their operation. So I think that, indeed, the experience that we can gain from them personally is very important. I would like to refer to the use of the word here for a sentence, since it has been suggested several times, it has come up several times. Relationship violence or domestic violence. I agree with fellow Members who say that domestic violence is more than domestic violence. And by the way, I can judge in four languages whether it is the same as it is in Hungarian, and none of these are marked by the word "family" in the sense of domestic violence. So if you look at domestic and family are two different words, that actually means household. You could go into this kind of linguistics, but calling it "relationship violence," I think it's a mention of that, or, to say the insistence on that, that we talk about this issue, that we now call it "relationship violence" or domestic violence, I don't think it's that much to the point, by the way. In response to Mrs Szelényi, by the way, in Btk., when we made contact violence a separate criminal case with the entry into force of 2013, which I think was a very important and forward-looking step to protect the victims, we gave the definition of relationship violence in this exact place, and I see that it is not significantly different from the use of international words. So I feel that in this respect, too, the Hungarian legal system follows international standards. I've been listening to all your comments. I don't want to waste time going into details. I would like to emphasise, as I said in my first speech, that we will continue to increase resources in the next year, and that many elements of the Human Resources Operational Programme 2014-2020 serve precisely to ensure that women who are victims of contact violence are able to receive adequate support and placement, as well as attitudes, prevention, which I cannot stress enough. And, yeah, we're gonna start at school. And, yes, we started a program that specifically serves the school age group, and in schools, with the help of civilians, we are talking specifically about relationship violence. And, yes, with our support, the campaign of the Hungarian Eco-Comenical Relief Organization called "Please Notice" was implemented, which is specifically intended to raise awareness once again. And, yes, we suggested to the NMHH that you issue a recommendation that the telephone number of the crisis intervention telephone station be displayed in news of victims of contact violence. I believe that these actions and all the actions I have already described and I do not want to repeat them are just a sign of what we want to do, not at the level of words, but at the level of action, in order to combat the violence of relationships. Overall, I would conclude by saying that what I do not understand, although I am not a Member, so perhaps I should understand the psychology of the Parliament even more, I understand that they had the opportunity to submit amendments. The deadline for this is over. The MSZP submitted three amendments, and I did not see them from the others. I do not know why they do not do that if they have proposals for amendments, why they are not also submitted in writing. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-12-100	Dear Parliament, I would also like to inform you that it was possible to submit the amendments by 4 p.m. yesterday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill on basic health care will follow up until closure. The submission is T/4883. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I give the floor first to Mr Gábor Sombor, State Secretary of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, do the necessary lifting of technical barriers, and then you have the floor. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-101	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We are beginning to negotiate a law that will perhaps be one of the important steps in the renewal of the health system in the coming period, which will not only consist of one chapter, but will open up many, many more and more steps. The Act, the title of which is T/4883 on basic health care. Bill No.1, provides not only for basic health care, but also for an important issue which is the inclusion of public health and public health issues in the basic health care system. When we talk about how health should be renewed and we see a large set of problems, it is worth reaching back, say, to the area around the regime change, when the country started very well in a very difficult situation with regard to health: the emphasis was placed on the development of basic care, and the country started on a very good path. It was in the mid-'90s, about 92. [[14.50]] The reason why this topic is kind to me is because I was working as a general doctor at the time, or a district doctor at the time, and I lived to become a general doctor overnight. Then, with a whole new type of funding, a new type of thinking, the general practitioners became health professionals working as a separate entity. And we were very hopeful at the time that this step, this system that has evolved, will provide a long-term basis for the Hungarian health structure, which, then, had the same problems, the large number of hospital capacities, the high number of expensive benefits, and international trends have also shown that this is the way to go. For a long time, this hope was realized, while there was also a mentality in the general medical system, but I can also mention the general pediatricians... - and, of course, when we talk about a general physician, then I arrived at everyone who could be the key to the renewal of the system. However, this effort has stalled, derailed, and has come to the point that GPs and GPs have been able not to act as this independent professional entity, but as co-contractors who are already able to obtain less income from their established enterprise, their one-man business, that they have to pay the assistant and all other costs, as if they were working in a hospital. So the system's reversed. Despite the fact that a lot of steps have been taken that have tried to stop or slow down this process, I must say that this has failed. It has not been successful, since the processes have been constantly pointing in the same direction for ten years, and unfortunately we are unable to fight over time, because at present more than one third of the general medical and general pediatric staff are over 60 years old, and they cannot stop their activities because they cannot give up their practice. And this is the case, I think, that it is important not only from a public health point of view, but it is very important for society as a whole, because any problem in basic care is escalated, then it has serious consequences for all of us. So when we started to think in the basic care law, one of the very important elements was to sit down with each other, sit down with the professional participants, predominantly with general practitioners, home-care professionals, patronesses, and find solutions that are more effective than before. In addition, it is important to find a place for public health efforts to function effectively because of the negative health conditions of the population, and this is the basic supply, and the participants in the basic supply must be strengthened and placed in a position and competences that will enable them to perform this task and will be able to do so. Many elements of this have started over the past period, but perhaps it is worth a little reflection on why this issue is important. In general, when we talk about public health, even at meetings professional organisations sometimes say that this is such a miracle drug when we say that we are trying to cover up various problems with public health. It is clear that Hungarian experiences, practices from current sources of EU applications, practices that implement the so-called Swiss model are able to carry out much more effective activities if they can work with appropriate organisation and cooperation. This public health approach, which has been reflected in the legislation proposed by the government and adopted by Parliament, must be brought down to the level of basic care, involving the workers there, and creating an institutional system that already has its elements, but must be made effective in the coming period. This law seeks to provide a framework for measures that can address both the problems and the challenges mentioned above, and to put in place a new approach, since we have asked what needs to be done, who are most affected. Those who have been asked, the young doctors - who, despite many statistics and news coverage, imagine their future in Hungary - have said that as a result of the increase in funding for general medical practices, as this funding has increased by 40 percent in recent years, but still does not reach the level that would be of the magnitude when it is safe to rely on the system, if this rate continues and the funding increases every year, and the prestige of this profession increases professionally and financially, and this profession becomes more secure, would clearly be willing to participate in the Hungarian general medical system if they could obtain and receive assistance from the practice. In the present situation, we find that any good solutions are being made, and that there was the financing of the practice change program, and that there was a solution where non-refundable support was given to GPs who took up work in this system in unfulfilled districts - these were only partial solutions. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] What we're seeing is that the systemic change didn't happen. So a systemic change is needed in order to replace retired or already able to sell their practice, gynecologists, home-care professionals, but we can understand the same thing about women in charge or primary care workers in dentistry. The solution is seen by them, and this has met a solution supported by both the former government and Parliament, when a preferential loan scheme for pharmacists was launched to acquire property in the pharmacy. [[15.00]] This was the request or proposal to start thinking about such a solution, so that the state would give young people a loan with interest or a discount rate to buy the practice, and in this case it would not be necessary to take out bank loans with family assets or debt, the biggest problem of which for young people, for example, was to ask for real estate collateral, which is not available to everyone. Therefore, the following request and proposal was that the revenue that comes out of TB funding as a general practitioner and appears as a fixed income could be used as collateral and as a repayment of the preferential loan. The proposal was that, if the state could provide them, more than half of the respondents said that they would consider working in Hungarian primary care and would like to do so. In addition, maintaining professional prestige is very important, as young people and GPs also say that it would be very important for them to be able to carry out specialist activities in the field, which would be very important not only for them but also for the population. That is why we propose in the law that those with such skills and other skills should have the possibility to conclude a specialized or specialist contract with the Health Insurance Fund, unlike the current ones. The next element in which we agreed, since these consultations took place for a long and long time, is that some system, a more effective incentive system should be established, where the aim is to ensure that as many defined care as possible in the basic care is provided and that as many patients as possible are able to heal close to the place of residence and to obtain permanent healing from the general practitioner or permanent therapy, so we suggested that a system of accounting should be established for social security benefits, and that each year a settlement should be made for the general practitioners and home-care professionals in relation to their referral to professional care, the benefits in professional care, and that, if this is positive, of course, with regard to appropriate medical, patient and health and the quality of work, a solution should be found from which home doctors can benefit and the savings can be used for improvement and improvement of clinics. So that was about the four or five proposals we received from the GP system, how to improve the problem, which, once again, is a decades-long problem in different areas, the elimination of practices or the number of unfilled practices. The fact that general practitioners are getting older cannot be stopped, and in this case we must do everything possible to find solutions. Another important issue that we wanted or would like to solve in this law is how we can support prevention and public health tasks that can only be carried out on this site, how we can make it effective, how to link national bodies, government agencies and newly created health promotion offices with local governments, home doctors, home-care professionals, and women's defenders. That is why we propose that a unified system of public health institutions be established, which is linked to a methodological centre, the National Institute for the Development of Health in the National Chief Medical Office, the health development offices in the field, government offices, municipalities and participants in the basic care, and in this case we can carry out screenings more effectively, and in a larger number of patients we may be able to discover their diseases at an early stage, save their lives as before. There are very good examples of this at present. A number of programs have been launched, as a result of which we can say that this path is a good path, involving GPs, GPs, GPs and women in prevention activities, and screenings are clearly positive. A large programme has just been completed, when women in charge of cervical cancer screening have been trained, involved in this system, and thus in the most backward, disadvantaged parts of the country, in small settlements, we can reach women who have not previously participated in these screenings, and so many, more than 400 people every year, have died from this disease. In the case of breast screening, in case of breast cancer screening, we also address the assistants of the general practitioners, who will receive the letter of invitation in parallel with the patient, and we ask them to do so not only, but also financially, to participate in the persuasion, because the screening rate can then be appropriate, and we can also save lives. A large programme has been launched, and the question of prevention and screening is part of this law, in which we know more than 10,000 cases, and 27 thousand cooperative calls have been made, this is the screening of colon cancer, which is starting to become the most feared population disease in Hungary, and a pilot program has been launched in Csongrád county with the involvement of general doctors with a sufficient financial background. It seems to be extremely successful, because there is more than 50 percent cooperation rate, which is very important for a start-up programme, and we have the experience that shows and demonstrates that this year we can launch a national introduction, which will not only be health, but also, I think, a very important element in the life of society, because very few countries in Europe are able to launch such large screening programmes, and resources are available for this, and now experience and knowledge are also available. [[15.10]] So this type of approach and organisation of basic care is included in our law, in addition to the fact that it will certainly be mentioned that, in many cases, this law acts as a framework law, and on several issues, it is necessary to establish a government or ministerial decree, which I would like to mention in advance what is the reason for this. The reason for this is that we find that basic care itself is currently in about ten laws, and we were discussing a salad law just the other day, which is not a lucky thing. Therefore, only those issues that have been regulated by law so far, or are generals, important and highly influential to general operation, and which we do not want to see changed frequently, have been raised in this law, or we have included the definition of tasks in this law, and the detailed professional rules of the various areas, which are currently subject to either government regulations or ministerial regulations, will be determined in a uniform manner in a package of regulations, taking into account, of course, any proposal that may be made here, or even in previous negotiations. The important issue is that the original concept does not change, which is about the active involvement of local authorities in the organisation of basic care, the task is left to the local authorities, but it also indicates greater help and greater public involvement in the lack of trust between general doctors and municipalities in many places, some form of conciliation status, but with a legal background, is given to the state, and those different legal relationships and different procedures can be dealt with in the country. For example, there are elements in the bill. We would like a single set of contracts, which is also a very old request not only for those involved in the basic supply, but also for the municipalities. For example, the introduction of a uniform and kogens rule on the use of practice, the use of real estate, the task of which is to address, for example, a problem that existed before or even now, when the municipality, as a service provider, is sure to pay the income it receives from the State for that task with good intentions and goodwill, but in many cases we also encounter a conflict of practice, especially in the case of women, where wage supplements and wage supplements are not always adequately distributed to those affected. Here we propose a new provision in the law, which concerns the fact that the municipality has to account every month for the employees in primary care, if he is the provider, for what he has spent the money he receives from the state. From the point of view of quality work, it is important that, in addition to working and working as such self-employed professionals, GPs - and this is still good - but in training, training and organizing benefits, it is important to have a unified approach, so that the professional head of colleagues, the GP's institution, as well as the nurses, in the case of pediatricians, we want to introduce a so-called state-of-the-art head office, which can help and direct the professional work of GPs, broken down by district level. An important request, which is not part of this law, but it is symbolic that general practitioners and pediatricians have been asking for a very long time to have the opportunity to exempt from business tax, because they constantly believe and feel that it is for them a tax that is not fair. This request has been heard, and I understand that there has been a proposal for an amendment at the Legislative Committee meeting, which will allow not only general practitioners but also entrepreneurial patronesses to release the business tax. I believe that this is a good step, and that is what the municipalities are willing to do, according to our information. So, to sum it up, we've come up with a reason why we need to legislate on this. I think that what I said in the first few sentences may justify thinking at the legal level about basic care, because it is in our interest to find solutions to renew, rejuvenate, fill our basic health care with new professionals. This is where I think of the patronesses - tomorrow is the 100-year memorial day - and for them, both in competence and professional prestige, the law can be a step forward. However, as I have said, there will be a lot of work to be done on this, how we can achieve this goal, whether at regulation level or by amending other laws, to provide a strong and modern basic health care to the country, because this is not only about filling the districts, having enough professionals, but also about how, in a new perspective, the state and the participants in the basic care will serve public health goals that are important to society as a whole. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-12-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches by the Members and their first round will now be followed by speeches by keynote speakers. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Ms Ágnes Molnár. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The fact that the debate on the Basic Supply Act has begun in Parliament today is a kind of proof. Evidence that the government really considers basic health care as a priority and constitutes a separate draft law on its basic rules. This will significantly increase the prestige of the area. Basic care is the cornerstone of the publicly funded public health system. Most doctor-patient encounters take place here, and there are all three elements of prevention, care and care. It is also a fact that everything is of national significance. If we can strengthen basic care, we will reduce the burden of our clinics and hospitals, which will benefit patients, our doctors and the budget as well. On the basis of the latest OECD data - I am thinking of the country's report - healthcare has unfortunately become hospital-centred. [[15.20]] This hospital-centredness must be reduced everywhere. In Hungary, the number of days spent in the hospital is much higher than the OECD averages. A few years ago, the main problems of basic care, including general health care, were clearly visible. The growing staff of GPs, the many, persistently unfilled practices and underfunded practices have all appeared as problems faced by the government, and unfortunately, we still have to face them today. The Semmelweis plan, adopted in 2011, also considers basic care as a key element of the supply system and prioritised it. Allow me to quote the most important objectives in this regard: we will strengthen the ability and interest of the GP and GP network to increase the rate of locally completed benefits. We want to restore and restore the value of the work of the basic care workers. We will significantly increase the possibilities of basic care for future professionals. By renewing the law of practice, we want to help bring young people to practice. After the change of government in 2010, the government started to renew its basic supply and, since then, remarkable steps have been taken. In addition to general practitioners, funding has been increased in a number of areas, involving children's doctors, school doctors, nurses and dentists in the field. With a practice change program, we helped young general practitioners start their careers. In 2014, more than HUF 3 billion was added to the asset support, HUF 750 million to support the filling of the permanently unfilled practices. From 2012 we introduced additional funding based on a scoring system at GPs based on the so-called indicator system. Facility financing support strengthens the quality and efficiency of supply. For this purpose, HUF 12.7 billion was available in 2012. However, it has also become clear by 2014 that, although much has happened in this area, more is needed, we need to move on. The Healthy Hungary 2014-2020 - Health Sector Strategy also identifies as a government priority the introduction of basic health care on a new basis, in line with the priorities of the Semmelweis Plan. New programmes have been launched to improve the prevention capacity of primary care; I am thinking of the core care development model programme or the health development office building system. Since 2014, budgetary funding in the area has also been increased to a greater extent than before. Last year, HUF 10 billion was added to the basic supply, mostly to meet the development needs of the primary supply. From January 2015, every GP practice with a territorial obligation will receive a monthly allowance of HUF 130,000, which can be spent on the maintenance costs of the clinics, so this is actually a premium. It is also a pleasure that the amount available for financing the basic supply will increase by HUF 10 billion in the 2016 draft budget. Ladies and gentlemen, The fact is that in 2010 general medical and general medical care services were not spent more than HUF 77.9 billion at the time of the socialist government, thus planning the basic care budget and the budget for general medical care in 2010. This is currently 117 billion in the 2016 budget. That's more than 50 percent increase. With regard to the amount allocated to the protection service, the 2010 budget planning figure is 17.9 billion, currently 22.4 billion. That's a 25 percent increase. If we look at all the areas overall, the government spends 40 percent more money on basic care, i.e. the area of general medical, pediatric, medical and protective care than in 2010. I think this is an outstanding increase. I would also like to point out that not only from the central budget, but also from EU and international projects, there are additional sources of basic supply. I'd just like to put it on a list, because Mr. Secretary has already mentioned all of them. Within the framework of the Swiss model program, 4 practice communities were set up with 24 basic supply practices; prevention and care for chronic diseases, with a total of 3.5 billion. In the second development program, which involves 800 general practitioners, about 800 nurses and 300 health professionals, as well as thousands of patients, where the basic care model will be developed, the project supports the work of basic healthcare workers with HUF 2 billion. The third programme is the early childhood priority project, which represents a regular and modern screening of virtually 600 thousand children under seven years of age, with a grant of EUR 4 billion. In the framework of the protective cervix screening study with pilot character and the colon screening study - which extends to national significance, which was discussed in detail by the Secretary of State, and it should be said that Hungary is exemplary in this Europe, such a programme has probably not yet started anywhere, only in Hungary - a huge programme with a national dimension, can be implemented with a total of 6 billion dollars covered, which will be ensured for the implementation of the programme. In the period 2014-20, even more serious resources are coming from EU funds for the development of basic supply. Last year, steps have been taken and are still taking place to reduce the problem of persistently unfilled zones. 12 months ago, we launched applications for unfilled GP areas with settlement aid, we were able to fill 38 districts with a net grant of between 6 million and 10 million. Now, after the government adopted the basic care concept in May 2015, we have a new draft basic health care law before us. In its resolution on the review of the basic health care system and related tasks, the Government called on the Minister of Human Resources to review the basic health care system and to propose directions for the transformation. Among the objectives set were to strengthen the functioning of the basic care system, the professional and financing of its sustainability, to strengthen the role of GP gatekeeper and, of course, to improve the quality of patient care. The first step towards achieving these objectives is to propose a separate law on basic health care. It is very important to have a provision that states that it remains a mandatory task for municipalities to provide general and general care for children, basic dental care, primary care, protective care and school health care. The establishment of the primary care zones is also the responsibility of the municipalities, but the development of the districts requires the opinion of the responsible methodological institute, which has recently been established, the National Institute for the Development of Health. The draft law clarifies the contract of assignment, the keeping of records for the districts, the organisation of on-calls, the free provision of clinics and their maintenance and renovation, and it is very important to see the relationship between doctors and women in charge of their services. A clear list of the main tasks of general medical, dental, protective and school health care can be found separately in the law, and we also add as an interesting element to the regulation on the work of the occupational health services associated with it. [[15.30]] In the case of GPs, there are certainly two outstanding changes. One of them is the introduction of an institution of the Collegiate Chief GP in order to ensure consistency and efficiency of the system. I agree with Mr Secretary of State that, in addition to preserving autonomy, there is also a need for comprehensive professional supervision. Unfortunately, we have seen the negative consequences of this in recent years. Collegiate professional general practitioners would operate at the district level and at the national level. The National Collegiate Professional Chief GP would be active within the already mentioned National Institute for Health Development. In addition to general doctors, we would also introduce a similar order in the protective women's system. The national professional head of defense will start the operation. The other relevant modification is a very important increase in competence. It will be possible for the GP to exercise this profession in the possession of a contract with the OEP if they have other professional qualifications than the existing one. A positive incentive will be introduced for GPs in order to provide basic care to as many patients as possible. Therefore, if it can be shown that there is a positive difference in professional care due to the referral system of GPs, this savings can be used for specific improvements related to GPs. The law also provides that, if the municipality is a health service provider, so that it receives the funding, the relevant healthcare workers should be informed of its use on a monthly basis. It is very important that there is a public health approach not only in the health salad law, but also in this basic supply law, and I am thinking primarily of the measure to encourage participation in the screening test with discounts, Mr Secretary of State has already explained this in detail. There are provisions that facilitate the acquisition of the right to practice. These are very important, the amount received under the funding can also be used to obtain the right to practice, and it is also important to change that the government is authorised to develop an interest-rate subsidy scheme for the loan received, and another positive measure, not least, which is found in the planned tax laws for next year, is: according to the municipality's decision, it is possible to exempt family doctors, family pediatricians, dentists from business tax. Ladies and gentlemen, The new Basic Supply Act is a framework law, a framework that will strengthen the basic care system with the associated detailed rules and the concept of strengthening basic health care, and as a result we are moving towards a more respected basic care system that will serve the interests of the whole care system and patients. I therefore think that I can fully support the new Basic Supply Act and, at the same time, strengthen this basic supply system. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-12-104	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The MSZP Group has indicated that their group's position will be presented jointly by two Members, István Tukacs and László Szakács. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Tukacs, please.
u2015-06-12-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would not spend my time proving to you that it is an important element of the health system when we talk about basic care and general health care in relation to the law put before us. I would simply like to note what I lacked, that the Secretary of State only mentioned ageing as a very important factor that needs to be taken into account. I'd like to add to the case of unfilled practice. That's because... [[Dr. Gábor Zombor: I told you.]] If Mr. Secretary said that, as you're telling me, it's likely I was careless about that. At the same time, I would like to say that, let me put it this way, our position is quite unmotivated, that putting funding on a good path is essential. So I don't believe in these dripping tens of billions, because it doesn't systematically change the situation of GPs, but at the same time I think it's very important for them to set up a predictable and significantly growing funding path. We meditated a lot among ourselves on whether it is worth breaking out of the health legislation, separately, the general practitioners and the basic care and the basic care. I, in itself, do not consider the separate law to be a completely despicable thing. It's okay if we want to deal with this area as important as it is. At the same time, as the Secretary of State well suspected, we are not very comfortable with the fact that, as a framework law, they will want to upload or fill in the draft before us with various regulations. In one case, we might be at peace with this, if these draft regulations were seen by the Members of Parliament, in line with its old habit. I'd be awfully curious. If you consider the essential areas in which you intend to introduce rules as a regulation, then you will certainly understand that these should be before a minimum commission. After all, the consent of Parliament or not to the framework law in itself does not mean that we know everything about what is going to happen in this field, and I think that, for example, in a case which, for me, is a rather interesting regulation in Article 4. We believe that screening is important; we believe, and then we want to build various preferences in the system so that non-binding screening works. It's the only sentence for me that's a riddle. Well, I wouldn't be comfortable with that, because if I'm gonna jump to conclusions from the communication of the State Secretary, then it might fit - and correct me, Mr. Secretary, if it doesn't fit - in order for patients to benefit from the waiting lists and the pre-books. I can't do this. It does not fit because a patient who is physically, financially and in relation to his geographical situation will not reach optional screenings. But he still needs a hip replacement, and he's not gonna get one of these until the end of time, like in the sack villages of Szabolcs or Borsod. Therefore, the ideas about booking and waiting lists - they are not in the law, I know it will be possible to say so, but they are in communication - so these ideas are not acceptable to us. You don't have to change with these lists, so you don't have to create sneaking orbits and distinguish patients. He's sick, and the waiting lists need to be reduced, especially the list of appointments, because now they're starting to get busted. The other interesting pass to this draft is to try to get the GP to send as few patients as possible to the specialist care. The basic idea is in order, so it's totally acceptable to me. If it can be cured at entry, the patient should be cured. At the same time, I would like to see the detailed regulation in this, because there are also pitfalls. Incentivising the general physician to heal the patient who comes to him is okay, but if we encourage him not to send him to specialist care in any way, that is no longer okay, and therefore the detailed rules here will be decisive. So certainly, Mr Secretary of State, you will understand, and you, ladies and gentlemen, that these detailed rules will play a fantastic role in what will happen in this system. The financing used as collateral for the acquisition of the right to practice is an interesting construction. That's an interesting idea. I was thinking about the pharmacy in the first place, because there was a good way to buy it in the construction of the credit system. I'm just saying, in its construction, because if I were to ask Mr Secretary of State how many people have taken advantage of this opportunity, I understand that there are not too many. So it's as if this loan wasn't so handy, and yet everyone wanted to avoid him being indebted to in this system. But even so, using public funding, future public funding as collateral is an interesting idea in itself. I'd like to see how that's gonna work out. Because it would be quite new for me to read what is really in it, and what the financing bank, let's say, says. In the case of business tax, GPs had an old desire not to do so. [[15.40]] Don't get me wrong, you won't be able to redeem a GP for not paying a business tax. In fact, if they were in good relations with the municipalities and wanted to favour them, they had already found a form or a way not to do so. I would like to add one thing as an idea: if we really want to improve their sense of comfort, then parking could be added to the local government-related issues, because this is also important for them, especially in those cities where this is a problem anyway. I believe everything you say to Ágnes Molnár, but at the same time in case of on-call fees, the municipalities are constantly signalling disputes between general practitioners and municipalities. This area is not arranged, so I would particularly like to mention that there are obligations here, because they are constantly at war with each other in a number of places of local governments and general practitioners. What extends skills and skills to general practitioners, I believe, for my part, that is perfectly fine, especially if it is accompanied by funding, as Mr Secretary of State has said. That is all I wanted to say and give the floor to my fellow Member. For our part, we will, of course, submit amendments to the draft. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-12-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Szakács will continue the keynote speech of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-12-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I will not pick up where my fellow Member István Tukacs left off, I would also jump to the beginning. As Mr Secretary of State has said, this is the first step in a multi-part work, a multi-branch work, and we have heard many times today the two expressions: framework and concept. However, I would like us to be able to understand the concept that you have just outlined, Mr Secretary of State. I am saying that there are a lot of elements that we would agree with, of course, that there is one element that we would like to clarify, that there is one element that we would obviously argue with. But what the Secretary of State said, however, it was clear from the fact that there are many places where this concept does not necessarily meet the provisions of this new legislation. Obviously, I agree with my fellow Member, István Tukacs, and I am not sure that there should be a separate law on these objectives, and that is probably all I can say. I mean, it's such a wide frame that you'll somehow fill with content, where we wouldn't know the details. If it is a concept in itself, then there is no need to make a separate law about it. I'd like to highlight a few things. The first, as Mr. Secretary of State said, is one third of our general practitioners, pediatricians and our general pediatricians over 60 years of age. In addition, you introduce this system, where you walk on thin ice and tell them that you encourage them not to send patients to specialist care. Who is over 60 years old, and who has usually been cured by having a medical background behind his back, does not take away this professional background, or at least encourage it, and I am pleased that Mr. Secretary of State has listed here the interests of medical ethics, professional, patient rights and patients, so it will not be such a bonus-malus system. At least, I trust that the rules of detail will not be simplified until now. However, I think that the practice of this, even if it is properly regulated, will be very difficult to meet either the will of the general practitioners or the will of the patients. I think we can agree that if these discussions were conducted and obviously went down, if Mr Secretary of State told us about it, I think there is no discussion that young doctors would stay home if their profession were more prestigious and they got more funding. There's no argument here. We thought so, and I think that the medical community also believed that this proposal would aim at this, rather than absolving it by HUF 10 billion. This amount is not enough to start any reform, no less, to go through, even if it will appear in several budget years. A much bigger source could have been transferred here. It's not that long since we've been through the budget debate, we could still find a source there. The MLSZ will farm from 7.1 billion in the following year, and we will also give five football teams in Budapest 5.5 billion more, and that is more, and I was just talking about football than the government is using to consolidate basic supply here. I think there's a kind of a downside here. Maybe we're still on time, we haven't adopted next year's budget, we can definitely change this year. If it's modified like this, we'll support it. Then perhaps you could find the appropriate proportions you're thinking about. In connection with István Tukacs, I will also be very interested to know that if an OEP financing contract is offered as collateral to a bank, then what will be included in that loan agreement. If you admit it, and you'll give 10 billion forints more to fund the basic supply, then why do you think it'll be enough to pay a loan besides wages and rent? Between the two, I think there's a contradiction worth resolving. I'm not sure with details, I think it can be solved by numbers. Write a bigger number there, and then everyone will be very happy to support every young doctor's desire when he feels that he is doing more prestigious work with funding that he can manage. With the nature of the framework law, as I have already said, we have a problem, and we will be very curious about the detailed rules. I would like to point out one more thought that the Secretary of State has said. He said that workers should be involved, that a system of institutions, some of which have already been established, should be established in order to solve these problems. In comparison, on 1 April, the National Institute of Primary Supply became a department; a department to which the local authorities have to turn to in order to establish a practice in their settlement, but this practice will not be registered by this department, nor by the former institute, but by the ÁNTSZ.We have already talked about this several times, when there is a transformation in the administration at the lower, middle and upper levels, as well as professionally, where we hear several times about a concept that no one has ever seen before - and I have the feeling that if we add much more ambition to this law, Mr. State Secretary, and to the transformations than it has come here, and probably a lot of proposals in government and ministry meetings, and therefore a little disappointing proposal has come before us here - then you can feel that if we add these two together, the bottom, middle and top level conversions, and we miss it, that there are many proposals in government and ministry negotiations, and therefore a little disappointing suggestion that there is a little bit to the other Parliament, then, you can feel that you can feel that you can feel that if you have a lot of ambition in front of the other Parliament. After all, the general practitioners did not expect the local authorities to let go of the business tax. And the trade tax really couldn't be let go, couldn't be let go of anyone. But I still think it's a cowardly solution. Why are we putting this in the neck of mayors and councils? Why doesn't the Hungarian government say that we shouldn't impose, that we shouldn't impose this trade tax? They've moved the problem with one, so let the person who has any problem with it solve it. I think this is a bit of a lack of ambition, but I hope that our amendments will improve it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-12-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-06-12-109	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Everyone thinks that basic care is inevitable in the preservation and healing of health. Mr Secretary of State mentioned that this system was born almost a quarter of a century ago, and it is now clear that it is time to rethink the regulation and to establish a single basic supply law. Research shows that countries with strong basic care systems have a better health status, a lower proportion of unnecessary hospital admissions and less social and economic inequalities in health. [[15.50]] It is also true, of course, that maintaining a strong basic supply system is extremely costly. Let me tell you why KDNP supports this proposal. We endorse the fact that there is a law on basic health care. We welcome the emphasis on the role of the gatekeeper in the primary supply. Allow me to take some time off from this one. It is in the patient's obvious interest to receive final care from the general physician and rarely to be hospitalised. This does not just mean that you receive medication from your family doctor, thereby avoiding or delaying the onset of the disease. The goal of the gatekeeper function is not to direct only serious cases to specialist care, but to prevent them from getting to the hospital stage of the disease. It is also a fact that this system, or the transformation of this system, requires more than ever: effective prevention and early detection of the disease. But we have to tell you a fundamental truth: that the doctor can be reached beyond the mandatory time spent in the practice. Another important issue is the need to make insured people financially interested in being as healthy as possible. Effective GP work reduces the cost of health insurance, and it is therefore fair for the GP to benefit from this savings. The third important aspect, which is why we support the proposal is that the government wants to rejuvenate by helping young people to gain the right to practice and thus triggering solvent demand. This is also in the interest of those who withdraw from the practice. I think I am not alone who can say that this is my own experience in my constituency, because not only do doctors grow old, but also empty practices, unfilled practices, show that this is necessary. Several people have already mentioned that basic health care remains in the role of local authorities, and in order to better protect general practitioners and practitioners, legal protection should be provided against any intention of local authorities to change. These include standardising contracts between local authorities and doctors. It is also an experience for individual representatives, which has already been mentioned today, that there is a debate between municipalities and general practitioners on the level of on-call fees. Who needs help here, the local government or the GP, is obviously different in any case. It is very important and we consider this to be a good result, and it is a move that, in addition to the GP exam, GPs with other professional qualifications can carry out this activity and conclude contracts for this. This not only means extra income for them, but it also makes it easier for patients not to go to another city for specialist examination. Finally, we consider it to be a result that the proposal also encourages participation in mandatory retail screening. One very important aspect is what Mr Secretary of State has mentioned, and what KDNP experts suggest is that the Parliament should give the government a free hand in the way of calculating refunds, and in particular that comparisons at district level should be made. Let me say that we also see a kind of danger in the introduction of a refund, and perhaps this could encourage general practitioners not to refer patients who really need it to reduce costs. It's a danger. I am not saying that this will come from the introduction of a refund, but the virtue of the bill is that it is a certain protection against the fact that the patient can turn to another general practitioner. This is the free choice of a doctor, which is an essential element of this system and the monitoring of patients' health. Returning to refining in the Government Decree: we propose that the health insurance company, as defined in the Government Decree, may increase or decrease the refund rate in the dependence of the results of curative-preventive professional work on a particular practice. Flexible regulation may be suitable for refining. It's not a substitute for the law, it's a supplement. On the whole, I repeat, we can support the proposal, and the minimum shortcomings that it contains, can obviously be replaced later. For example, the fact that dental work is hardly affected by the proposal, but this, again, is a deficiency that can be replaced later. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-12-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr László György Lukács, who is speaking here on the platform. Congressman's on his way up. There you go. You have the floor.
u2015-06-12-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to begin with a fitting analogy. Health care is often seen as a house. The house is well-known for a strong foundation, and in this case - in line with its name - it is the basic supply. But the walls are also part of the bricks of basic care, which is also related to the other dimensions of health care. According to Jobbik, this proposal complies with the basic supply law as a basis, so the law itself is in line with the basic principle, but it must be enhanced with several bricks that increase its strength and ensure its durability. Jobbik will make proposals to create a stable and durable health facility. With the legislation, we can say that there is a crossroads to basic supply. The question is which way to go. First of all, are we moving on the path we have progressed, slowing down as we have progressed, or are we moving quickly to a different path, and we are trying to improve the situation of basic supply, so to speak, radically? In my view, this legislation is trying to stray from the old road, but it has not greatly increased the pace. In many ways, it opens up space in a positive direction, perhaps overthinking, and sometimes hurtfully slow. I will soon highlight it with the answers to critical remarks and with the opportunity to present it. Ladies and gentlemen, First, we need to examine what basic care is. If you want to clarify the state of basic healthcare in the area of health care, i.e. how and why you need to change, why you need to create a new basic care law, you need to know what the definition of basic care is, you need to know the content and the requirements for its development. What is basic supply is defined in two ways. Taxative services can be explained by their physical and personal scope. In this context, the Hungarian legal and health environment is consistent, according to which today the Health Act 152. In accordance with Article 4 of the Act, there will be no change, we will be working with the same terminology, so the scope of this will be covered by GP, GP, GP, primary dental care, primary care care, protective care and school health care. [[16.00]] By definition, however, several approaches are known, so, on the one hand, it is known that, according to its general wording, basic care should be a form of close care for the population, in which it provides basic, non-professional services. The basic care is a long-term, continuous, personal relationship, regardless of the gender, age and nature of the disease, regardless of the nature of the population, with equal chances of access by the resident to medical benefits with a limited professional competence, and a combination of prevention, rehabilitation and care benefits provided by certain healthcare professionals. But I dare to believe, and I myself believe, that the most accurate definition of basic supply, i.e. the real basic supply, is the challenges that partly cover the above definition and to which it must answer a basic supply structure and service. In this case, the international terminology denotes this with four words, which are short for English, so - don't be mad at me for speaking in English - first contact, i.e. the first encounter with the patient; whether the care is continuous, i.e. always available, and is also a starting point and end point; be so-called comprehensive care; and be coordinated, i.e. coordinated, which means that it also provides coordination with other areas and also in relation to professional care. So the exact definition is known, the expectation of the system. The question arises: does the law meet this requirement to fulfil certain elements of the definition, i.e. to fulfil the requirements of the basic supply on paper? According to my position and Jobbik's position, it's partially appropriate. Indeed, the first encounter with the patient is not changed by the system, but there is already a problem with continuity, as territorial inequalities still exist and will continue to exist, as the legislation does not provide for a solution to this, but the on-call shortcomings also undermine it, although the law is really giving us a plausible solution in this area. However, I firmly do not believe that comprehensive care is met, and the lack of coordination is also evident. There may be reasons for this - as the Secretary of State has also identified - the privatisation in primary care started from the beginning of the 1990s, which drowned, consumed its own power and opportunity, and is therefore justified, and it can be said that there may be grounds for State intervention, because if it could not create the opportunity itself, it must be created by the state. One of the important aspects of the ideal basic supply is that the terminology marked with the above mentioned four letters,..c., but above all, the basic supply, if it is to function ideally, must serve the opportunity of wide-spectrum expansion, place strong emphasis on the prevention mentioned earlier, and constantly monitor and monitor the new directions of technical and management development, and, if necessary, respond quickly and effectively to them. Question: "Does this exist in the law?" My position is that it's part of it. Ladies and gentlemen, Why do we care about basic care? We have just heard: strong care and basic care give rise to good public indicators. We referred to the above: a recent study shows that the countries of the European Union, where there is a strong basic supply, have a better health status for the population. In this respect, we have much to improve, and in European comparison, Hungarian society can boast of the most modest indicators - if we can say that it can boast. There are types of crabs in which unfortunately we take the place of a less prestigious leader in the field, which is why it is important for the public health approach, which has recently been promoted by the government in several steps and by several measures, so, in addition to the public health approach, one of the important building elements of health care, basic care, must be caught up. But we also care about the role of gatekeeper and its effectiveness. The basic supply must be strong and efficient, because this form of supply is such an important gatekeeper - and we have already heard this - that we can operate as a screening system on the one hand, but on the other hand it is important in terms of cost efficiency. If you want to say it figuratively: all the funds invested in the development of basic care will be paid in a large way, because it is well organised and operated to relieve the burden, to reduce the costs of professional care, whether it is lying or outpatient care. A cost-effective system can and can be one of the main objectives to be taken into account, so it can be cost-effective if the relationship between professional supply and basic supply becomes fast, coordinated, allows space for electronic data transfer and provides space for technological developments such as the promotion of imaging diagnostics and the provision of tendering opportunities for this. Why do we need the law? We can agree on one thing: the social and economic changes over the last 25 years are the transformation of health funding, the technical and legal development has all posed a challenge that has come to a serious transformation for this reason. It's enough to think about the private hands of state clinics, the changes in the corporate law world, the development of new, efficient telecommunications tools, information technology. Aptly put, it is certainly logical to create a new figure when, on the basis of Google, there are already dozens of treatments for diseases that were not even known in 1997. Ladies and gentlemen, The new regulation is also important because the area is facing major challenges. The serious challenge is to reduce the pressure on the basic supply, in addition to increasing its efficiency, and one of the main dilemmas: to choose a model if at all you have to choose a model. Let's get on with it. How to reduce the pressure on the basic supply and why is there pressure on the basic supply? On the one hand, it comes from an increasing area of extended social care and an increasing interface, which, due to the constant encounter, causes striking and serious friction between the two systems. Patient expectations are also increasing in relation to primary care, but new providers are constantly emerging, which should point towards development. The number of people with chronic diseases is increasing, and the number of people is also increasing. Old age is a general problem, and then we are still here to mention nothing else, both the brain-drain, so the brain-sucking effect that Western European countries have, but we can say calmly - every country is struggling with it - we can experience from any direction. It is also a problem, and further pressure is that the area is not attractive enough. This is shown by the number of unfilled practices mentioned, the number of people leaving the track and the number of immigrants. There is also no doubt that efficiency needs to be increased not only in the technical sense but also in the sense of human resources use. At a time when there is a lack of medicine in all Western societies, it is a luxury for any unused Hungarian doctor, nurse, nurse, defender, to burden their strength with inefficient problems that do not help the healing of patients, but also with administrative problems. Thus, the new Basic Supply Act and the related regulations will have to comply with efficiency gains both in terms of technology and human resources, increasing the utilisation of workers in the sector, because it would be a vain fantasy to believe that their number or proportion can be brought to the European average at all. One of the problems with effectiveness is that today dozens of patients leave primary care and start attending specialist clinics who could have been treated in primary care. Aptly said the Hospital Association when it wrote that basic care is needed to return patients who have been admitted to specialist care to the general practitioners and return the motivated physician to the patients. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill has spent an exemplary time in consultation and social debate, so the profession and parties have had enough time to develop their views and criticisms. Let me mention some of the critical points that I think are very important in relation to the basic supply law. The first concerns the available financial resources itself. From the sources available, the law may not work, and we can take it as true. If financing does not follow the change of thinking required in basic care and does not receive extra budgetary attention, then perhaps everything will fail, that is to say, if not every day they will rise to the State Secretary for Health with Mihály Varga and Péter Banai on the table of State Secretary for the Budget Benő Banai on a post-it note that we need more resources than ever, because without it, our objective in law will not work, so there will not be a single objective set out in the bill. [[16.10]] There won't be the same or a little more doctors in the profession, there won't be any more nurses to supplement the services, there won't be imaging diagnostic tools, and there won't be a sufficient number of practice communities or group practices. It is no exaggeration to say, without sufficient resources, the planned development path will certainly not be established, and then the bill will be one in a dozen dead-end health reform experiments. However, it should be mentioned that not everything is money, and not all criticisms are focused on money. We also consider it very important to say, and it was a critical remark that GP practices are too dependent on local governments. The question arises: is it really in the right place for the municipalities to do so? I think it is, because they can provide basic care, where else could it be. The state central reservation can be less effective, and the fact that any organisation, self-organization, is self-organising, has shown in the past 25 years that it is also not a good direction. So the argument is correct, the municipality is a good farmer and understands the needs of the population best, the lowest point where the population is treated in a more honest, less technocratic way. As a criticism, I would like to note that we have also noticed a number of inconsistencies in coherence that are linked to other legislation. There are technical amendments, and these have already been submitted, although we always cling to the word, which is of a legal nature. It is unreasonable, for example, to say the entire incompetent person, to write when the Ptk. does not use such terminology. The correct terminology for minors is a minor or disabled minor with limited capacity to act. But it was also a criticism or criticism of the use of exams for other tasks. In this connection, my fellow Member will tell you more. It is also a criticism that the law is open to regulation in too many places, although we ourselves know and Jobbik is aware that there is a complex legislative and -sea of health services in which this is essential, but its precise content, the important content, will nevertheless be formed by these regulations, so that society will also have to pay very close attention in this direction. The question of practices without territorial supply obligations was also critical. Here the profession was divided, whether it was needed or not needed. Perhaps it could be said to the government in this, or it could be said that it is finally time to clean up the matter of whether or not there is a need for gynaecological practices without tubs. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] On the whole, Jobbik will support the proposed bill, but it will say it in the debate, and I will also tell you my further critical and improved proposals. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-12-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr István Ikotity. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-12-113	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, We read with mixed feelings the government's submission of the Basic Supply Act. This intention is more or less good, we believe, however, that the functioning of the legal instruments used is in most cases doubtful. There are many questions raised by the new norm that do not yet appear to be answered. We consider the overall role of the gatekeeper of the basic supply to be important. It is clear that it can play an increasingly important role in preserving the health status of society and also in preventing it. However, where there are already permanently unfilled GP districts, this is already a vain fantasy. If trends persist, the large number of such areas will likely only increase further in the future. It's weird that the introduction still mentions the career model, but later, you can't find it anywhere in the proposal, it's gone. This is not surprising to us from the government, from whom we often hear great promises, but if there are concrete ones, then the enthusiasm is fading. So we continue to look forward to the government's plans to develop and introduce a career model, not only in primary care, but also in other areas of health. Anyone who has obtained a degree, who has further trained himself, who has worked for decades, will receive monetary recognition of this. Interesting and fundamentally eligible part of the proposal, which would allow GPs with specialist exams to sign up for specialist practice. This can be a good solution for both the patient and the doctor, at least in principle. Now, a general physician with an internal medicine exam should also send his patient to the physician so that he can receive the assisted medicine on the basis of another physician's recommendation. However, it is not clear what will actually be possible. For example, can a cardiologist generalist perform cardiac echoes in his practice? Can a surgeon do small surgery? How will this be limited? Or will it just be up to the GPs to decide what they're willing to do? As far as co-workers are concerned, the content of the proposal is acceptable. But here, too, there is an alarming lack of deferred detailed arrangements and precise powers. The number of adult-hospital and home-patient districts with no territorial obligation is not without problems. We clearly consider the numbers in the proposal to be high. It is no coincidence that those involved expressly protested against the proposed regulation. This would adversely affect the general medical practices in question and, indirectly, the patients involved. We believe that this is a serious flaw in the proposal, although we can see that this trend has been moving in this direction for some time now. Indeed, there is a lack of definite saying; such a desecration seems to be more so. We also consider encouraging participation in the screening study to be very good intentions, but we have a lot of doubts about its effectiveness. We are also not convinced that the incentives have been or will be chosen. We consider it important that one patient's benefit should not be at the expense of the other patient. The incentives should actually address the stakeholders. So we need tools that really make us feel that filtering makes sense and really motivates us to take part in time. Care should be taken of the disadvantages they may suffer, who may not have a prescribed screening test. The documentation of the screening should also be such that no one can be harmed by a possible database error. Interestingly, this amendment would make use of the value of a positive response from the referral system of GPs or GPs as a development. Unfortunately, GPs will not be directly interested in reducing the burden of professional care. They have no impact on the improvements to be defined in the regulation. Savings in professional care will not be returned directly to them, the individual performance results of the GP cannot be traced back to the GP. Therefore, this amendment will not provide any more sources of professional care, nor will it be possible for the general practitioners to choose the path the government has dreamed of. The proposal is acceptable to us, we think it is good provisions, but there are also parts in it that are worrying in their present form, increasing uncertainty in the system. However, overall, the direction can be supported, but it is almost certain that it will be necessary to re-enter the regulation soon if these problems are not addressed by the government side at an early stage. Finally, I would like to point out that the social debate was particularly positive that there was a good time, there was a good way, and we very much appreciate that. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-12-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As an independent Member is not present in the Chamber, no independent representatives will take part. I ask my fellow Members who would like to speak. From the Jobbik Group, it is up to Congressman Lajos Rig. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-12-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Although I do not appreciate it, the MSZP Member - although Mr Tukacs is not here - has made a few comments that are not in place; for example, the hip replacement surgery should take place first and take part in a screening test. Screening for hip replacements is not, in my opinion, part of this, or I don't know about it yet. It was a positive step by the government, and I must commend the government here for exempting tek surgeries from the total volume limit and placing great emphasis on laparoscopic colecistectomy surgery. [[16.20]] It has been said that the local government will provide the general public with parking facilities. This works for a lot of city councils. The mayor receives the request, and even a municipal decree regulates the range of people who can get such parking permits, and that is what general practitioners usually use. This is how it works in Tapolca, and in other cities that place great emphasis on the help of general practitioners, all municipalities can do so. On the other hand, I have a suggestion regarding the screening tests, which I propose, since it is part of the 21st century. This is a malignant tumor, called melanoma malignum, which causes premature death, which is almost the leading cause of death of the century; and it is not the primary disease itself that causes death, but in many cases the detection of secondary cancer, which usually transmits to bone, kidney, and is discovered so late in an imaging, diagnostic procedure, when the patient is already irretrievable. At that point, there are several cancers - whether colon or kidney cancer - that will lead to his death within short months. And this disease is also becoming more common among young people. As I mentioned, this is XXI. Sickness of the century. Sunbathing, solarium are all a trigger, and if young people, middle-aged people could be encouraged to go to such screening tests and discover these skin lesions in time to be cut out, the secondary tumor could be prevented. My fellow Member, Mr Harrach, also said, and he is right that there is a debate in the on-call system between many municipalities and general practitioners regarding on-call remuneration. It is important to know that the municipalities usually provide the central on-call in the form of a small regional association, and there they usually give HUF 58 per head of quota to each municipality. In my opinion, the increase to 65 forints would solve the system of general medical care, solve the remuneration of GPs - it could be increased - and in areas such as Tapolca and its small region, where they stopped an on-call car for funding reasons, restarting the second car in the summer period and then in the winter period, however, this increase requires state resources, because it is difficult for the municipalities to do so from their own resources. Gandhi had a very good quote about health: you sacrifice your health to earn money and then sacrifice your money in retirement to get your health back. Unfortunately, this is true of Hungarian society today. What lies ahead, including in the basic health care law, my fellow Member has already said that most of us agree with and support it, because we had to fundamentally change the system that has not worked for a long time. Based on the opinion of the GP and GP, the main problem is the current funding and the lack of number of employees. There is a need for a significant increase in practice revenues, an increase in funding, because so far, but not even the planned ones, it was enough to fill holes. We need a health care system that shifts the focus of patient care towards basic care. This is what my fellow Member has been talking about, and this is not an example rejected in countries more Western than us, whether we look at the Finns. What the Basic Supply Act contains is a group practice, a community of practice, it works there. There it works that 28 doctors can work together, or 28 professionals - including orthopedic doctors, ophthalmologists, psychiatrists, pediatricians, nurses, dietics - can work together in such a way that they can solve the tasks that an infirmary in Hungary solves at local level. It should also be added that Finland has a much lower number of hospital beds per capita, and this is linked to the fact that there are much fewer hospitals in that area. This includes the fact that their health status is better than that of the Hungarian people. We also think it is positive that doctors with extra exams can take outpatient care in addition. There is only one problem - or two - here, let's usually get an adult general physician: he has either an internal medicine or a cardiologist or a surgical exam. Pediatric physicians usually have a Neonatological, Pediatric Intensive, and pulmonary Rehabilitation and Allergological Exam. On a statistical average, they are the majority of general practitioners and pediatricians. If you want to open an outpatient clinic at local level in addition to a cardiology exam, you need minimum conditions. You need an IBPM, a holter EKG, a stressful EKG, and if you're serious about cardiology, you need a heart attack, and if you take a simple example, if you go into your specialty with atypical chest pain, you're gonna do an EKG there, you're thinking of a non-STEMI infarction, the simplest and fastest diagnostic is a troponin test, which, we all know, is a very expensive procedure, and you can't afford it by yourself. Here's the question. There will be a source in the budget that, if he wishes to participate in this system, the State will provide additional resources for the installation of such an outpatient clinic. Also, we may have a question of the fact that outpatient care facilities are subject to weekly specialization hours. How are these gonna be redeployed? Who are we taking it from? Or do we provide extra hours, whether in the district or locally? As far as I know, in the same specialty, parallelity cannot be found in the same place or can not be tied. If these questions are answered, it is safe to say that waiting lists are decreasing, at least at an outpatient level. But we may have one more question. So far, the GPs have been in a position of convenience, as they have referred patients to outpatient care, so if we say they have taken the burden off their shoulders, the burden of responsibility, because - and now I turn back to the problem where we were - they have not been able to make an accurate diagnosis in the absence of diagnostic tools. In the absence of funding, however, what I mentioned: GPs suffer from a lack of funding that they also have problems repairing and servicing their existing machines, such as an EKG machine. Many general practitioners turn to the local government to repair and service existing machines. It is also essential that practitioners, children's doctors and dentists who provide basic care, with very little mention of dentists, become free of local industrialisation tax. The municipality will allow them to do so. I don't think there are many municipalities that will say no to them. You can't abolish a decree because it's against the law, so you can't do that. We didn't talk about GPs without a supply area, did we? These are GPs with no tubs. They're a little bit against this health code itself, because they've done a pretty bad job, and their quota has doubled, so that's what they're working on. So far, there have been 300 children in practice, 600 in mixed services and 600 in mixed practice. This is all going to double. 600 for children and 1,200 for mixed practices. This is negative discrimination, so they are negatively affected. We have to do something about this, because their number is not small, they supply about 200,000 people. Nor does the bill provide a solution to the situation of dentists who provide basic care. Their activities are less funded than in the general medical practice, while their activities are significantly more material and asset-intensive. If you just take the panoramic X-ray machine, it's not cheap to get it. I think it has been said in terms of general doctors that it does this as a very large number of entrepreneurs, but it does not, because they also work as civil servants. I don't want to waste too much time with this. [[16.30]] My fellow Member has said many things that we agree with. We have tabled amendments, and I trust that the government will support those amendments, which would also be a step forward in the history of basic supply. I'm going to give you some statistics on where the lack of human resources appears. The problem is that in 10-15 years' time, this will reach a wave that we will not be able to handle normally, if the doctors, as Mr. Secretary said, do not come back from abroad or stay here in this system where they are studying. For example, the number of doctors working abroad in 2009 is 887, and in 2014 it is 948. 419 in 2009 and 493 in 2014 for caregivers. The number of unfilled GP practices, and here I would start with adult practice in 2008, 39, child 16, mixed districts 107. The same number in 2013 is 55 adults, 38 children and 120 mixed practices. This also makes me wonder that every year the number of practices that remain unfilled is increasing. We can go back to the time that doctors migrate, young doctors do not practice, and no young doctor comes to replace the elderly, retired GPs. This is confirmed by the general medical profile: between 55 and 60 years of age, there are 942 pediatricians, 745, and 65 years of age there are many pediatricians - 339, the mixed 243 and adults - a huge number - 690 doctors who work over 65 years of age. If we don't turn these numbers around, we don't change them, then that 10-15-year-old wave I was just talking about is gonna peak, and maybe not in 10-15 years, but in the next few years. Thank you for listening. That's all I wanted. The Jobbik will support the proposal, by the way. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-12-116	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr László Teleki, from the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-12-117	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I think that this law is very important, because it can deal with problems that have not been dealt with very well so far by law, and we may be able to make it possible for those who have not yet been able to receive basic medical care as widely as possible. I say this because, in many cases, we did not pay attention to the fact that not only geographical location problems, but also other social problems made it very difficult for them to use basic care. However, I am glad that right now it looks that loading the practice sites will be more flexible and easier to load, because that means that in places where these practices are currently not loaded, it may be possible to reach them. This is very important and I think that this process can be welcomed. However, I have some concerns about this issue that we have actually talked about prevention today and how important it is to address the issue of how important screenings launched in time can be, so that we can achieve even bigger diseases, but this law absolutely does not address the problem that I would like to raise. At such a level that it may not be a matter of basic medical care, but in any case of how the situation of people living in slums or in gypsy farms will change with this law. 'Cause I don't see it, even if there's an article in it that gives a discount to people who may be involved in a separate screening process and thus involve them. What I see is that there are a lot of fundamental things missing from this which do not provide basic hygiene conditions. Thus, either mental or physical access to these things will be difficult to achieve. I would like to say here, first of all, that you should think about the fact that slums that are very isolated from basic care can also occur from the person's problem, but in most cases it is a mental problem. This is a question of how you will manage, how you can get them to go into basic medical care, use basic medical care, and try to do everything possible to get them there. The other part, however, is that in many places public health problems are also present, and public health problems occur primarily in many places, and there is no need to be a gypsy colony in order not to have even the basic hygiene conditions, such as a floppy toilet in the multi-family section. And it's not necessarily just Roma. The problem is that the disease is much better. Not including the lack of basic medical care or the lack of medical care, because it is not always his fault, the government must take a step to help them prepare or put into prevention families, persons, children, adults who are not yet able to use this basic medical care to a sufficient extent, for a number of reasons. Therefore, in this way, it is absolutely necessary for the government to do something to address this issue. Because it is not only about prevention that they should go to the doctor in time, it is an important step, it is also important to draw the attention of a large part of society, but it is also very important that today in Hungary - and I said it at the previous item on the agenda, too, and I would like to say it now - I cannot deal well enough with my values that we try to deal with those who we want to save, and we want to make good laws, let us say, with such a basic health care law, in that case why we do not try to deal with this issue in a coordinated manner. Because people who may be in need of basic care or even longer treatment, the main problem is that they are socially unable to do anything with themselves, because they are socially so sublime that the last question is whether they are going to a doctor or not. He's trying to deal with his daily problems, and he's avoiding him at the last minute, otherwise in an acute situation where he can't be helped, or it costs a lot of money for medicine or for the state to save him. Therefore, I would consider prevention to be very important in this case, too, because if that does not happen, then we can make laws that are good for and can be welcomed by a broad layer, but very many will be excluded from basic medical care. I think that this needs to be changed, because we need to think as widely as possible about how to achieve greater involvement in basic medical care or health care. Once again, I think it is very important that they also receive additional shares and discounts for non-binding screening tests, and this should be very important because it should be encouraged. But once again, health care should be treated in its complexity, so that its complexity belongs from employment to the treatment of social and mental problems. Because if it doesn't belong there, it'll only touch one layer - and I'm not going to say that in a small way - and the layers I've been talking about will not be reached. It is therefore very important for both Mr Secretary of State and the Government to put their heads together with the social sector, so that this issue can be dealt with sufficiently so that the layer of healthcare I have talked about should not be excluded. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-12-118	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mrs Bene Ildikó. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-12-119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, There have been a lot of things, and I think that there has been a positive and good professional type of discussion with regard to the Basic Supply Act. I don't really want to do reruns. One thing: GP colleagues are very happy about this law, they were looking forward to it. For them, this is very important, that in this way this law is very helpful not only in the steps already taken, but also in moral appreciation. [[16.40]] I would like to say what I think is very important, and it is published in the law, but my fellow Members have already talked about the creation of group practice and practice communities, because these are the opportunities where care can really be provided near the place of residence, because the inequalities, territorial inequalities that can be found in Hungary are excellent, with one such community of practitioners, and they are able to carry out excellent public health programmes together with the other opportunities provided by the related so-called health development offices, health development agencies or with the patrons. I also think it is important, and this is also reflected in the law, that the task of plant health is being published, and precisely in the previous ones my fellow Member has said that there are people living in extreme poverty who do not get to a doctor. If you just think about taking part in a plant health inspection, say, a person involved in a public work programme, I think that this can also be an important step, or the role of plant health, because the management and examination of active workers are in their hands, so I think that this is also a very important step. I would also like to say this, and as a positive news, my fellow Member Rig said how important melanoma screening is. There's 6.5 billion forints in addition to the public health program this year. Dermatological screenings within the public health programmes offer us great progress, as we have just had a dermatological conference where they said that due to the screenings, the number of melanoma diseases discovered in time has increased to many times, so I think that we have done a lot and we have taken very serious steps forward, but we also have to say that the patient has a responsibility, that people have a responsibility to participate in these screening tests. It is our responsibility to get everywhere, to get to the smallest places, but patients have a responsibility to appear in these tests. I think that this law is a very important step, of course, that it is important for all of us to clarify the details and the various problems raised here, but I would like to say once again that this is a very important step forward for our colleagues, and I think that, together with this law, we are taking a very important step towards both the role of gatekeeper and, in fact, the provision and development of basic health care. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-12-120	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A two-minute speech will be held by Congressman Lajos Rig. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-121	Yes, thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Madam Congresswoman said here her comment on melanoma malignum, and I fully agree, and in this context the offices of the Egis will come in, i.e. the health development offices. As I understand it, now, at the end of the year, all of them have their final projects and accounting, and the next budget also has about 900 million forints available for this purpose. In the health development office there are many qualified assistants that have the significance of prevention and patient education, in self-study, how this deadly, now, very insidious cancer can be detected by young people and older people, because we also meet a lot of elderly people, who are already very late, believe that a wart and die of secondary disease. I just wanted to say that, in the near future, the gendarmerie offices have a very important role to play in this gatekeeper role, the practice communities, and the goal is to strengthen the gendarmerie offices if the government is to keep patients in basic care rather than inpatient care. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-12-122	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr Nándor Gúr, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In health care, the basic care issue is obviously a very important slice - but a slice. So, let's be clear here at the start of the bill, at the start of your trial, that we're talking about an important section, but the entire health system is worth looking into, and so, in this context, we're looking at the story. It has been governed for the sixth year, and so far, with regard to the governance of this sixth year, we can actually say that there has been only a withdrawal of resources from health care. Now they want to prove it in a partial area, as mentioned in the introduction, Congresswoman Ágnes Molnár said that they want to prove it. Yes, there is no doubt that there is evidence in a sub-area, an increase from 77 to 78 billion to 115 billion is evidence of this, i.e. in terms of basic supply. But I must add, this, you know, Congresswoman, you know, my fellow Members, is a case of positive progress in a given area, say, from the financing side, plus HUF 35 billion, but within the total, we are facing a HUF 300 billion mínus in terms of health. So then I think that a tenth of an improvement compared to the whole, compared to a 100% deterioration, is small and perhaps, I apologize, it is sad to start by saying that there is such a move in terms of basic supply, if it is what is happening in terms of the whole. And unfortunately, what happens is, I don't make it up, you have to look at the 2010 budget, you have to look at the 2009 budget, you have to look at the 2015 budget, and then it becomes clear what I'm talking about. There have been a lot of problems, and I will not go into them in detail, but I would like to recall them with a signal. The issue of unfilled practices: it is obvious that what is unfilled and which can be filled must be subject to extraordinarily binding procedures. I am sure there are ways to do this, and I have also been personally sought by representatives of the local government, so that cooperation between the government and the local authorities could also make good progress in this regard. Or just think about it when it came to retirement of general doctors, quasi-retiring, if you have reached 65 years of age, whether you are a general doctor or not, whether you are a university teacher or not, whether you are doing any kind of activity that is useful to society, there was a career in which you confirmed that nothing mattered, that everyone should retire over 65 years, and then you solved these questions with ministerial permissions and others, but in terms of basic attitude, how you touched the question, this is worth thinking about. It should also be borne in mind that the growth path that concerns basic care should bear financial resources that are predictable and increasing in the process from now on, or that my fellow Member Tukacs spoke of, in terms of appointments, in relation to waiting lists, so that the minimum of patient discrimination should not be maintained. My fellow Member, Teleki, touched on the issue of the fact that, in a sense, people with poverty are obviously unable to obtain basic care in the same sense as those who usually have greater mobility - quoted in quotes. Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg county, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, but in a sense the southern region of Dunántúl, Baranya county is also affected by these problems, and to be clear and clear, this is not a question of Gypsy, no, it is a question of poverty and poverty. And unfortunately, not now, but unfortunately, in the last five years, during the period of your governance, these problems have been deepened. More and more poor, increasingly sublime and more people are living their lives on the stage of poverty, and therefore these people cannot even access basic care, basic health care, simply encounter a multitude of barriers that paralyze them in order to benefit from these services. [[16.50]] Of course, in many other ways, the development of drug consumption patterns, the purchase of the medicine required, and many other issues. And the basic problems of health care must also be mentioned, the availability of human resources, the mass departure of doctors and residents from the country, because they do not see the minimum living available to themselves while doing responsible work. If, therefore, I have to support my introductory thinking with some figures, which was that I understand that there are positive shifts in terms of basic supply, even in terms of financing, then I would like you to know that from 2009 to 2010, the change in health expenditure in real value was plus 8 per cent, from 2009 to 2010, so that you can put this story in place in time. Then a year later, from 2010 to 2011, the change in health spending in real terms was now minus 5%. You know, one year is the year between the economic and financial crisis, the year after 2009 and the year of the change of government, and the year after the change of government. In the first, plus 8 per cent and in the other, minus 5 per cent is the change in health expenditure in real terms. You've got to keep that in mind. It means that there has been a continuous withdrawal of funds in the health care sector, while facing increasing expenditure in terms of the country, especially in terms of public luxury investments. I don't have to play stadiums, I don't have to talk about the Castle, the Liget and many other things, and you know all the things that fall into these categories. In terms of health, in the last five years, when we faced an overall inflation rate of approximately 18 per cent over the period of five years, we see that HUF 2396 billion, which was included in health care in 2010, increased to HUF 2447 billion by 2015. This increase amounts to HUF 51 billion, but in terms of inflation, this means HUF minus HUF 300 billion. In other words, in relation to 2010-15, you will take 300 billion HUF out of health care for one year, while your keynote speakers are talking about adding 35 billion HUF to the basic care over five years from 2009 and 2015. I would therefore like to say that more careful with numbers, a little more profoundly, and a little more consistent in the context of this debate, in terms of their activities and in line with them. At a time when in the care of children, when there is a reduction in expenditure in medical care, but also in many others, in public health care, when it comes to dealing with the above-mentioned medical deficiencies, the emigration of residents, the inability to hold hospital debts, is faced. I'll give you two numbers: 90 out of 60 billion can't be satisfied, but even 60 can't be seen to satisfy 90. Or when we say, in terms of wages, we see, for example, wage levels for nurses, which are, say, around the guaranteed minimum wage. You know, the minimum wage is 105 thousand forints gross, and the guaranteed minimum wage is 122 thousand forints. Nurses have to look at their average wage for what they work for. Unfortunately, the guaranteed minimum wage is not much more than their average wage for doing work. Of course, their responsibilities are incredibly high, since they work to protect our health, as each of us expects. And then I'll add one last pair of numbers to this 35-300 billion-forint pair as an analogy so that they can place it, and not just look at things in the light of health care. You know, it's like listening to the positive activity they're doing in the budget debate, because they're reducing the VAT on pork, and it's going to be a discount of 20-25 billion forints and a discount for people. Then you will look at the figures of VAT revenue on the budget line from 2014 to 2015, and you will face the fact that in 2015 VAT will collect HUF 215 billion more than in the previous year. It is similar to the previous HUF 35-300 billion comparison here too. And what are you trying to sell in front of the world? Well, they've given people 20 billion in this VAT cut, while, I'm telling you, they only take 215 billion more in VAT. Now, they're doing the same thing with regard to health care, when they talk about basic care, that they're putting more resources into basic care, that it's now 35 billion more than it's been five years; yes, only in health care, it's 300 billion less than it's been five years. Well, that's the big problem, the basic problem should be solved first. There, in the complexity of health care, the resources should be loaded, not taken anywhere else, because these money is for the people, where they take it, and those in your moonyard, in your summons, satisfy the pleasure of those in your friendly company. This philosophy should be changed, primarily for those who live in this country as a whole, for the simple people who live their everyday lives, for those who, by the way, may not be able and able to provide themselves at the same level as you or the wealthy people of your own moonyard. So I would like to ask you here, in terms of final thoughts, to change philosophy, so that people are not important at the level of words - you know, the hardworking little people - no. People should be important in what they do. In all aspects, including legislation, as regards spoken words and tangible acts. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-12-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Mr László György Lukács asked to speak again from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-125	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue from where I left off, because the lead speaker group has not given me enough time. In essence, I mentioned the main issues, but in addition to all of this, we must continue to do so. The criticism then sounded - and that was the idea - whether the dependence of general medical practices and basic care on the local government was good. Then I said that, of course, it is good to say that this decision is perhaps the closest to the population or the problem of practice, perhaps it is here that you understand it best. But the question could have been whether it was good for the municipality to set the boundaries. In this regard, it can also be said that it is certainly the best, because there seems to be a sufficient guarantee. Here is the guarantee of the methodological institute, on the one hand, in the establishment of district boundaries, who takes an opinion, and the legislation states that the opinion of the general practitioner can also be taken into account. Here Jobbik would like to make an amendment that would often suggest, in particular by talking about the fact that the municipality and the general doctor are not always the best interrelationship, we would like to include a consistency in the law, which will otherwise appear in several passages, in which it is not enough to take into account, but also to take into account, and when explaining why they have deviated from, where appropriate, from the opinion of the methodological institution or from the opinion of the general physician, then clearly and clearly justify the decision by the municipality to include a clear and visible justification within the framework of the law, i.e. by referring to which legislation, redirecting it to see, for such and such reasons, a reason, the doctor or general physician or the methodological institution, otherwise; therefore, a clear and visible justification must be included. For this, we proposed a sentence structure not only in this place, but also elsewhere. The other thing we have proposed and we want to propose is that the contractual relationship between the municipality and doctors must be strengthened. Its duality, which is a public-law duality, but also a private-law duality of this treaty - that is precisely its strength - must be exploited, and both parties must somehow reconcile their interest in public-law interests and private-law interests. I can imagine that perhaps a minimum standard contract model that can be used to avoid tricks, bypasses or missteps should be included, so that bad practice can in any case be removed from the system. [[17.00]] I believe that it is necessary to consider - and we have already heard the suggestions - how far the treaties can be defined. In any case, a consistent pattern must be established that provides sufficient security for both the municipality and the doctors. It sounds critical - we would also like this to be observed, and we have said this - and we have already talked about practices without territorial supply obligations here and there in the debate. To sum up, we know of nearly 270 such practices, there are 70 providers who may not be involved in this change, but there are 200 practices that will be affected by the increase in numbers from 600 to 1200. By the way, it is interesting that this 200 number, which is a practice with no territorial supply obligation, coincides spookily with the number of permanently unfilled practices. If the government wanted to eliminate this form, they could essentially upload the missing practice number. But what we need to do here is to find a way to break a spear in favour of what both the law and the government are voting for, so whether or not there is a need for practices without territorial supply obligations, and, as I mentioned earlier, to put clean water in this regard. We have noticed as an interesting fact - and we would like to suggest that this should be improved in any case - that the bill in its preamble mentions the general practitioners, the pediatricians, but does not talk about dentists anywhere. By the way, perhaps this was also noted by the dentists' Gremen, and he said that he had been sorely left out of the preamble, let us say, a figurative and symbolic list, so it should be supplemented, if possible, and the legislator sees this as an opportunity. In order to encourage state-organised screenings, we also propose adding that the Minister for Health in his regulation should establish a list and list of screenings - i.e. a taxative list and a list - which includes incentives, but which contain disadvantages in the case of the failed screening tests. The reason for such a well-known and predictable list would be precisely that it would contain in one place the consequences, whether rewards or disadvantages, that residents would have to face if they did not participate in the screening tests. If we determine what is otherwise positive, we can also determine in my opinion what it is that if you fail to do so, you can expect a disadvantage, because in itself it can be a disadvantage if you do not do so, then you will not get ahead of the waiting list. When organising basic healthcare, we want an uncertainty factor in the scope of Article 5. § 2 shall be deleted from paragraph 2 of this Article. This is where the legislation uses the, as far as possible, the, where possible, clause. It's another soothing clause that I don't think you need to have a seat in it. We think it is essential to add the sentence that we said earlier, that the municipality must provide detailed reasons for its decision, based on the law, on which reasons it decided differently from what was, in fact, the possibility of its opinion or decision. So let it not be that, if possible, it gives you an extra loophole, and here again we can say that the relationship between the municipalities and the general practitioners is not always good. It should not be allowed to be a loophole and a reason for escape, either for the general public or for the local authorities. At the health zone boundaries, I mentioned how to correct it, and I also mentioned Article 8 (1). In the section on how the concept of incapacity can be used, in line with the Ptk., in such a way that it is otherwise coherent with the Ptk. What was still in my mind during the speeches is that we have often talked about the importance of screening and the increase in the volume of screenings in addition to the public health approach. We'll have to put an exclamation mark next to it. It is necessary to use the method of filtering - and this is also well known - as screening can also release an extra burden on professional care that may not be able to cope with in the present structure. Therefore, public health programmes and these screenings should be implemented in a scheduled manner. I heard a reasoning about this not so long ago at a conference, and I think they considered the results of the health development offices, and they also stressed that, of course, it is not possible to start at a very high rate, because such a screening could result in serious problems in professional care. Perhaps it was still in my mind that at this moment, this basic supply law may be the last moment we can reach out to the primary care workers and drag them back from the position they are in. So I think - and that is what I propose to all the parties - that we take this opportunity now and tilt them back or pull them back from the state to which I believe, and that is also the reason I have seen, and that has already been mentioned - that they have started in the privatisation process after the 1990s, and that they have not been able to move forward or rather lived up to their potential. Now maybe they can be pulled back in a direction where we can go in the right direction. Overall, the proposal can be supported. We recommend that our proposals, our opinions, be received with a view to improving them. Of course, both in committee debates and in the Legislative Committee, we will take into account what has been transposed from this, but overall, this may not affect Jobbik's view of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-12-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Gábor Zombor, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State. It's got a 30-minute time frame.
u2015-06-12-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your approach to the bill, my fellow Members, and for your suggestions and opinions. I believe that we agree on the basic issues. On behalf of Congressman Nándor Gúr - I don't know, he's not here anymore... [[Nándor Gúr from his notary's seat: I'm here.]] I'm sorry, he's here. I think we can talk about this on Monday. I would like to draw your attention to a 2008 - minus 19 - percent reduction in real value in terms of health; I'm just saying. [[Dr. István Józsa: This has been doubled by the Orbán government.]] By the way, with regard to health - as we have discussed here - I think this is a rather bad way to go, but we will certainly show you how it happened, and you will also present it. One thing is certain: in terms of basic care, it can no longer be a political issue that steps must be taken that can lead to the ability of doctors to get back into the general medical profession, and I thank them for their positive attitude. With regard to the framework character and regulations, Mr Tukacs had a request. There are three issues in which I also prefer the Commission's opinion in any way, so how the committee will discuss these issues, and I think we can reach an agreement on this. About working as a specialist: if Parliament adopts this law in this form, then we will eventually develop the background together with professional colleges and professional departments. We design special minimum conditions and special forms of ordering, so not only the current classic that has come up, cardiac or other types of order, but also in a form adapted to the basic supply, and of course the tender should be available. Mr Teleki mentioned a very important question about how people at a disadvantage could access basic care. [[17.10]] One of the most important reasons for these measures in terms of prevention and screening, and perhaps in terms of prevention, is that we can bring the actual activity as close as possible to those who find it more difficult to use organised screening. This is important because the most serious cases and most deaths occur in the social group that we do not achieve. Training and involving women in cervical cancer screening may mean the closest contact, for example, with Roma women, in order to reach contact. We didn't mention this, but in this law it is also stated that the guardians are obliged to cooperate with the family according to the new legislation. But for example, we have repeatedly referred to an opportunity to apply, which we call a model experiment, where we want to introduce practices that are already working well in other countries. For example, one of these programs, which operates in more than one GP practice, operates with the use of voluntary health care guards and with the involvement of dietetic, physiotherapists. I wouldn't call it a group practice, I would call it a cooperation system based on the cooperation of GPs and other professionals. This has very good results, whether they are contemporary or they are able to exploit the existing system of relationships in a given social group. Otherwise, this model also works in settlements where a large number of Roma populations live, and if you are interested, I would be happy to give you information about it. This was exactly how to approach them, how to involve them. The first priority among the objectives was how to arrange for them to see a doctor. That's what we've had experience with, and that's what we've now expanded to 800 practices. That can be solved in this concept. I've written a lot of things down, there are a lot of questions that need to be answered. What I'd like to say is that what we have with these numbers is a definitive provision, we have agreed on all of them. For example, GP practices without territorial care obligations trigger huge disputes among GPs. In this case, I asked that the medical board and the GPs give us a number, a solution that they can support, and we can support. This is about extra funding, which is not, by the way, an impossibility for the lower number of practices, only these over 1200 and 600 will be considered as normal practices. Congressman Luke had a comment that they had the same number as unfilled practices. It would be nice if they were in the same place, but unfortunately they're not there, because they're usually in big cities and Budapest. I mean, there's other places, but it's more complicated, because he doesn't always want someone to replace me in a practice, and he's happy to have it unfilled. So the daily actuality also nuances a little bit of the picture. Congressman Ikotity has indicated that they have reservations on various issues. I would like to say that basically the general practitioners are entrepreneurs, so for them the career is a predictable and constantly increasing income, a secure legal and economic environment, the possibility of maximizing income, that what they have can be used as a specialist and a general practitioner. That's what works as a career. The question of group practice and community of practice is included in the ideas, as well as in the provisions of the law. I'd like to say that when the GPs heard this, they said they didn't want to be forced to do so. So I'd be careful with that. The group practice itself has been a topic in health care professionals for about 20 years, and since then it has not been resolved, probably due to the opposition of the participants. Prax communities are different, more relaxed organizations, and if this specialized ordering system works, then the practice communities can develop there, which would otherwise be very justified in the coming period. Once again, I would like to say that on the issue of incentives, on the issue of credit, on the issue of the establishment of specialist orders, the Committee will be consulted on the issue of regulation. I would like to thank you for your contributions, and I would ask you to help us achieve our work and the common goal with your amendments. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-12-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that the deadline for submitting amendments was yesterday and at 4 p.m. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain social and child protection laws until closure. The submission is T/5052. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Czibere, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-12-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, With the measures contained in the bill, the government will continue to take steps towards a fairer, more transparent and targeted social care system, in particular a social services, child welfare and child protection. The proposed legislation is set out in Annex III to the Act on Social Administration and Social Benefits. Act XXXI of the year on the protection of children and the management of guardianship Act CXCI of 2011 on the benefits of persons with disabilities and on the amendment of certain laws. contains amendments to the Act. In that order, I would also like to take the individual amendments. First, therefore, the amendment of the social law. The government is committed to ensuring the safety of older people, and in this it is of particular importance that the quality of social services that help older people be predictable and sustainable in the long term. The transformation of social services started last year will continue in the area of home assistance. The 2014 Implementing Regulation-level amendment affected the range of care activities and also affected the eligibility criteria by amending the point limit. The change in eligibility conditions was justified by helping the most deprived elderly to access care, strengthening public engagement towards more care, self-sufficiency, care problems, difficulties and needs. [[17.20]] This transformation will take place in such a way that two types of services, sub-types, are distinguished in the context of domestic assistance, along the lines of the activities provided, in order to ensure that home care can be provided much more specifically than at present. One is social assistance, the other is personal care. Social assistance and care activities are divorcing, allowing more efficient provision of services, based on the needs of the claimant, the applicant, the recipient, the client, and thus ensuring that the service is provided better suited to the needs of the users and that the persons in need can stay in their homes as long as possible. Thus, through the provision of intensive care and care and the provision of care to the most deprived people, the elderly can be cared for much longer in their own homes, and this is an extremely important goal for the quality of life of the elderly. This also shifts the use of nursing homes, residential institutions, and the time to move to the residential institution. Social assistance covers activities to meet a lower level of needs, even without qualifications. The other sub-type, care activities that meet intensive needs in the context of personal care and care tasks appropriate to nursing competence may be carried out with appropriate social or health qualifications. In the context of the transformation of home assistance, the heads of institutions should review the needs of those receiving home assistance and determine, according to the new categories, whether they need social assistance or personal care. On the other hand, the maintenance staff must record the number of points and the number of hours of care recorded in the user's register. So this is the next step in the transformation. An important principle of transformation is the gradual nature of the government and the need to prepare both the maintainers, the service providers and the elderly and the clients on an ever-increasingly continuous basis for the transformation, thus allowing a more targeted care and care needs to be better met. There is an element of the proposal that applies to the fee. Since we see that, in our view, the form of the proposal now contained in the draft is not sufficiently nuanced - because, although it deals with the need for income, at the same time the need for care is limited - and after several opposition and pro-government factions have indicated that they will make an amendment in this respect, we will withdraw the part of the proposal concerning the fee by considering it important to return to this at a later stage, since it is only possible to provide targeted assistance in home care if both the need for care, the ability to self-sufficiency or a certain lack of it, and the need for income, are taken into account both in the differentiation of the fee, in the conversion of the fee rules, and in the differentiation of normative financing. We believe that it is important to better target those who have a lower pension and those who require intensive care and care at the same time. It is important to give an increased incentive to maintainers on the financing, regulatory and eligibility control side, in view of the need to provide, in particular, qualified older people whose self-sufficiency problems are more significant, higher, or not excluded from the perspective of maintenance workers by older people who have a lower pension. So, in some way, both the need for care and the income situation must be addressed, so, although not in this form, but later we want to return to this issue in the form of differentiated financing and differentiated charging rules. The next part is that, in order to reduce illegal services, the tools of control authorities need to be expanded. That's the next step. We've talked about this before. Both social control authorities, social licensing authorities and Treasury have found numerous cases of abuse, traces of fiscal fraud, and services without professional performance and any professional achievement. A number of measures are still under way. Therefore, it is important to start strengthening focus not only on the input side, but also on the output side. It is not enough to judge the quality and professional effectiveness of a household care provider and not just of a household care provider's social service, although this is the most important for the use of public funds, but it is also important to expand the toolbox in order to really operate in the area by those who operate in compliance with the rules and actually produce the professional result that the legislator would like to see in this social services system. In order to increase the control toolbox, the bill provides the body authorising the operation with the power to review and modify the needs of care established by its institutional authority, so that there is a monitoring mechanism, a control mechanism, as this review and modification of the need for care has a significant impact on the issue of eligibility. In addition, a new penalty situation will be laid down where the head of the institution misinterprets whether the beneficiary is justified by social assistance or personal care, or if he wrongly determines the level of care needs, since this will also have a significant budgetary impact and a consequence in the organisation of services. The increase in capacity in the funding system in recent years, which is not necessarily parallel to an increase in demand, has resulted in unjustified budgetary expenditure, often without, as I mentioned, actual service content. I would just like to highlight one aspect of this. While the number of home care recipients was 48 thousand in 2008, at present 128 thousand, and the number of licensed capacities was 144,000. So in six years, there has been a threefold increase in domestic care capacity, even though we know that there is an ageing age, but it is not that size. This is why we can see that inadequately targeted eligibility rules, inadequate regulation and funding, as well as control problems, have led to this. That is why we must intervene on these points. As I have mentioned, this increase does not necessarily involve improvement in quality, as in recent years, several cases have been revealed by the official control that activities are carried out and financed for users that do not fall within the professional competence of public home assistance, the professional content of services is questionable and do not meet the needs of users. In view of this, it is therefore desirable to reorganise capacity in a direction that will allow for a targeted use of public funds in the future and is also suitable for establishing differentiated funding. Another important element of the bill is that three services financed by tender, financing contract, i.e. not head quota, norm, were already discussed in the autumn debate, the support service, the community care of psychiatric patients and the community care of addicts are returned from the tendering system to the normatively funded support system. [[17 .30]] We consider these services to be extremely important for the development of basic care, it is important that both people with disabilities and people with addiction and people with psychiatric diseases - we now say: people with psychosocial disabilities - have a significant improvement in their chances of access to basic services locally and that they need to use specialist care as soon as possible. To this end, in order to improve quality and improve access opportunities, it is essential to be able to make significant improvements both for support services and for psychiatric addicted community services. One important element of this is therefore the elimination of the tendering system in these cases, and the return to normative funding. During the seven-year operation of the tendering system, there was a cleansing nature of this tender system. Although the intention of the cleaning legislator has been achieved, funding in three-year cycles has been a major uncertainty for the maintainers, as this does not allow the planning of long-term sustainability. In the interests of predictability, flexibility and security of funding, the operators of the services concerned will receive support from the following year under the conditions laid down in the Finance Act. Services already in place and receiving support will be included in the financing system by law, and new capacities will also be created and expanded. So the tendering system will be terminated at the same time, the transition to a new, long-term sustainable and safer financing system will take place at the same time, the budget expenditure for these three services will increase by HUF 1.2 billion, so there will be a significant increase in funding for these three services, and in these cases we would also like to publish proposals that will improve the chances of access to white spots, so where there is no basic service available at the moment, we would like to open up new capacities, and we would also like to provide an opportunity to replace amortised cars. Together, these five measures can significantly strengthen the basic care of people with disabilities, psychiatric patients with psychosocial disabilities and addicts. In addition to the above, the proposal includes a number of proposals for amendments to encourage compliance. It should be noted from the amendments that data published in the Social Sectoral Portal operated by the National Rehabilitation and Social Office will also be available to the public to maintainers who have committed the statutory infringement and those who provide services in breach of the registration of service providers. It is very important for clients, the elderly, the caregivers and the caregivers to know exactly what quality of service they can expect from the institution before the conclusion of the care contract, prior to the conclusion of the legal relationship. The government must seize all means to provide a detailed picture, information and information on the quality of services to older people, people with disabilities and their relatives, in particular in the provision of specialist care, but also in basic care, prior to the conclusion of the contract. This is an important step. The information thus available shall assist potential users in deciding whether to use a service and may be able to inform them at the same time and to refrain from committing infringements. It also serves to deter the provision of illegal services by increasing the ceiling of the social administrative fine to HUF 1 million for service providers without registration in the service register, while the minimum amount is set at HUF 250 thousand. Amendments to the Child Protection Act. The government is committed to strengthening basic child welfare benefits within the framework of the package of measures for the well-being of children, the aim of the amendment of the Child Protection Act is to make a special element of the care system for victims of contact violence, the so-called secret safe house, known in this law - an earlier type of service, but it is important that it also appears in law. This will enable the specific features of the secret safe house to be defined at legal level and the specific operating conditions resulting therefrom to distinguish it from the so-called crisis centres that also assist victims of contact violence. Another proposal concerning the amendment of the Child Protection Act, which started from 1 January 2014 to include the excellent, professionally proven and good results in the Child Protection Act, is now continuing to introduce this proven type of service into the system. With the amendment of the Act, children's homes become full members of the basic child welfare care system by including children's homes in the service register on 31 December 2015 and the provisions on other basic child welfare benefits should also apply to them. The Child Protection Act is also added to the provisions in support of sanctions, which are closely linked to the restructuring of the control system, so that the registration of infringements and a higher amount of fines for non-registered services will apply, as in the case of benefits covered by the Child Protection Act, as in the case of social law. Finally, the third proposal belongs to the law on benefits for persons with disabilities. The amendment of the bill to the supply system for persons with disabilities streamlines the review system for persons with disabilities. According to one of the elements of the amendment, persons who are entitled to invalidity benefits and recuperated rehabilitation benefits on the basis of their benefits prior to 2012 are exempted from the review obligation and who are entitled to the retirement age until or within five years of the review. Of course, in the event of deterioration, persons with disabilities may continue to request a review. The proposed amendment also concerns the review arrangements for the incapacity for work of the person receiving rehabilitation care. At present, a review shall be carried out in the case of a contiguous non-workable condition of at least 30 days. There are many cases of 30-day contiguous incapacity for work among persons receiving rehabilitation care, often linked to existing health problems and health investigations, so there is usually no permanent deterioration, so we recommend that the 30-day period be increased to 60 days, so the review should be carried out in case of a 60-day contiguous incapacity for work. The amendment will result in a reduction in the administrative burden for both the client and the determining body. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-12-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The main speaker group of the speeches will now follow. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor Kovács. Here you go, Congressman. [[17.40]]
u2015-06-12-131	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Allow Fidesz-KDNP to amend its legislation concerning persons with social, child protection and disabilities, which is T/5052. Amendment No 1 to the Act, a few words before the specifics, and a small look back on what the fine-tuning of social services looks like, which was already prepared in the Minister of State's exposé, partly by the Government's actions, and partly by the setting up of district offices on 1 January 2013, partly by the amendments made in 2014 and partly by the detailed restructuring and fine-tuning of domestic assistance on 1 March 2015. As the Secretary of State has said, these parallel powers, the legislative background to the delivery of targeted services, are being created by the amendment before us, according to which, if the 1993 III amendment was adopted, I am looking at the amendment of social law, so you want to fine-tune the kind of special service that we call home assistance. At the committee's meeting, we discussed the very simple nature of the spring amendment to the regulation to determine the humane nature of the 6 points and 20 points of entitlement, to remain eligible for the service previously established in the system, and to ensure that the condition of the proven infringement is met by the type of resource, the type of service that aims to improve the quality of life of older people. The bill goes on after the regulation, and I think it will specify those needs assessments. As the Secretary of State said, the licensing authority, which examines the personal, material conditions and later on the operating conditions of the institution, gives them the authority to check whether the need has actually been established, is indeed the need assessment, is that care class designed for that client and gives the head of the institution practically a free hand. But at the same time there is the sword of Damocles, a little incisive, to consider the form of 6 points of entry in the current system - I am sorry to say so - because so far, in practice, the person who has reached the retirement age could become a member of this system almost automatically, and the already mentioned licensing authority's powers of fine are also covered by this amendment. If we look back a little more, in other areas, on child protection subsidies, on the free feeding, which was the last in relation to the budget, on the amendment of the 2015 annual budget before us, I think that the child protection amendments are intended to include the services that the House had dealt with two years ago in the form of a regulation or parliamentary decision, or with domestic violence, to create or tune fine houses of the kind that are designed to protect these family members, to intervene in a crisis, to provide care, and also to determine the places that should be taken into account in institutional accommodation, stressing that these institutions always need a virtual place to live, because we cannot calculate when a family in a serious crisis situation knocks on their door, and it is possible to add 6 months to the period that the family can spend safely in this institutional system. If we look back a little, we could sum up the fact that the form of support, as an allowance, replacing employment in the place of regular social assistance, which has been abolished, represents the kind of universality that state-sanctioned social benefits have been transferred to district offices and that a kind of division of responsibilities has been left to the municipalities, so-called municipal aid combined, depending on the client's need, and the social situation of the settlement, which we tend to call very ugly, to involve local governments in the situation of these social benefits, taking into account tax power. This is important because in these social benefits, hot meals are the first and most basic social services that can be used in accordance with one's age or social need, but this may affect children's summer meals if we consider the solution to hot meals, or other basic social services that, if we move to another dimension, have long been a special public service, or if we consider the financing of a community service of a normative type. Allow me to give you a personal example. As a social worker and institutional manager, I led an institution where these services were available, and indeed, when the amount covered by the grant agreement ran out, we asked ourselves whether we would transport those four or six seriously disabled children to the halfway house, or say that the quota is over, and we didn't get any more, we have to stop. I think that this normative support for predictability and long-term planning will in any case be a positive change for these service providers, as Mr Secretary of State has said. If we also pay attention to covering white spots from a Community perspective, then I think that we will organise the improvement of service and quality of service for the different types of clients, in terms of the support services provided by these state normative services, which have long been called special services, social services and street social work. I think that the anomaly between rehabilitation disability benefit and rehabilitation benefit, which my colleague Korózs has said many times, and the slowing down of the review, the number of people who can spend 3 years in a rehabilitation facility receiving rehabilitation benefits, has been a cause for concern. I think there is still something to be done about the care of these people, but in any case, I think it is a good direction to refine the so-called revision entitlement. I don't want to quote Mr. Secretary of State or the text of the law. I think the most important point is that, five years before the old age age of the client, he practically does not have to go back to a mandatory review. If this review has been established before 1 January 2012 and the rehabilitation allowance has been passed on, it may be re-established as an invalidity benefit, but the amount may not be less, or it is very important that the contract of employment of persons entitled to the institutional law or to the protected companies or rehabilitation institutions becomes virtually continuous by virtue of the law. Summa summarum, I believe that we can agree with either the text tabled by the amendment of the social law or the amendment of the Child Protection Act or the amendment of the law of the disabled and disabled, and that we can provide support from the Fidesz fraction to the Ministry, the Government. I'm asking Members to support the bill proposal. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-12-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Lajos Korózs. Here you go, Congressman. [[17.50]]
u2015-06-12-133	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, We were looking forward to the presentation, all the more so, because nearly six months ago, in a hearing with the Commission, he said that he would be brought before the House soon. They could have been faster, because then we wouldn't have to discuss this agenda here at six o'clock in the evening. Turning to the proposal, as Mr Secretary of State has said, there are three key elements that the amendment deals with. With regard to the amendment of the social law on the service side, including in the case of domestic assistance. As I see it, they are once again tightening up one of the most important basic services, which is almost completely redeployed. I agree with Mr Secretary of State's dilemma that in nearly six years, if I remember correctly, 48,000 clients have been reached with the service, and this has increased to nearly 128 thousand. It's not normal. I also think that there is no reason for any demographic change, although I believe that poverty has increased in Hungary over the last six years, but not so much, so poverty figures do not justify it. There's got to be some system malfunction here, and if there's a system malfunction, the state or the wallet has an obligation. If you're happy-happy and you can't get to exactly the services that created you, you're gonna have to hit the system hard. I only think that control should be strengthened; monitoring and methodological work that could have detected these anomalies in time and that appropriate measures could have been taken. Of course, there is one other element that there is no need to distinguish between service providers and service providers, so if this is done by civilians, then civilians should be caught in the ears, if they are religious institutions, then the ecclesiastical institutions. And if someone makes a service of it just by seeing a good business, they should be banned for life, even near the professional area. But not one week, they'd have a Kft or a service association or a church, and when they were caught in their ears, two months later, they'd create another with the same employees, just under a different name. Not to mention that a significant proportion of caregivers did not change jobs - they already quoted jobs - of course, in their employment contracts, but they worked in the same place. I agree with that. With regard to the Child Protection Act, I should mention, as the Secretary of State has said, that the special element of the care system for victims of contact violence, the secret safe house, will be named here in the law. In addition, there are several elements of the proposal, on which we can say that there are quite a lot of stuffing texts in this proposal. There are a lot of changes in the proposal without any substantive changes, and I would like to mention this later. The third law that this proposal amends is the law on the care of persons with disabilities and the modification of certain laws. This is the law by which the government, in my opinion, destroyed the disability and accident disability pension system in 2012. This proposal is part of a confession that this review system, which has been here for the past three years, has been a bit of a failure. Perhaps if they had gotten rid of Gábor Pósvai sooner, we could have gotten to this amendment sooner, because I consider him a person - I have once or twice said so here - who has done more harm to this whole profession than I know - than World War II. It is worth talking about, and I have repeatedly said that there are elements of the pension system that need to be constantly touched. I'm not against that. The reason why flexibility should be applied in the pension system is that unexpected challenges should always be addressed with good answers. I am still saying that I do not agree with the fact that a 130-year-old system - and that is the disability pension system, if not in this form, but I am just reminding my fellow Members that it is the 19th century. At the end of the century, there were cashiers in Budapest where the rehabilitation, pension of people who suffered disability and accidents, and even the care of widows and orphans were dealt with at Weiss Manfred and already in Angelland. So that in such a rapid way, without any transition... - the only civilized country in the world is Hungary, where there is no disability and no accident disability pension. Today there was a large conference in the Upper House room, and I think that a professional recognized by all of us said that such rapid changes could not be made or applied in the pension system, because it always causes more damage than it can be expected to do any good - this benefit, of course, in quotes. And it also has to be understood that disability or accident disability is not planned. That happens, it's an insurance risk. Retirement is, of course, planned. You know exactly when you're going to work, how much employment you have, how much service you've spent or collected, how much contributions you've paid, and even the average able ones, based on the existing replacement rate, can figure out how much pension you can expect in the size of your initial pension. But disability isn't like that. I also think that it is worth talking to the House about this because I consider this to be a matter of national strategy in terms of the functioning, financing and sustainability of the pension system. I'm sorry, I'm a little tired because I'm over this big conference where I've been chairing it all along. Let us consider, in the case of home assistance: it is proposed that everyone should pay for home assistance in the future, as they determine the minimum fee, as you mentioned, Mr Secretary of State, the amount of the institutional fee per hour is 1 percent of the minimum pension. We find it unacceptable to introduce a minimum fee system for home assistance. It is not clear what budgetary and ideological considerations lie behind the fact that the possibility of free use for a mandatory basic service is fundamentally excluded. In one case, the service can be used free of charge, according to the bill, if a person does not have any income at all, he does not have a HUF. It's not unimaginable, but let's face it, fortunately, it's not everyday. Unfortunately, it is common for elderly, sick people to live on a few ten thousand forints pension, which means that they will be rich in the new system, because they have something to pay for it. For a moment, the government does not take into account the expenses involved, such as the cost of housing maintenance, heating, electricity, food, and so on. The minimum fee is introduced, but the maximum is no longer fixed. This is also a problem, in my opinion, because since the tightening up in January, which I will mention for a few more sentences, more and more places, at least in and around the Prime Minister's village, the service fee has already been increased. There the hourly fee is more than a thousand forints, but not only on Felcsú, as I hear, this fee is somewhere in Debrecen. The most beautiful thing is that the minimum fee is linked to the minimum pension rate. This is the threshold, which is not to set a fee accordingly, on the contrary, a number of social and family allowances depend on it. I would remind my fellow Members that it has not been a month since I made this motion to the Parliament, and the committee responsible for the budget has not supported my proposal. Seven years ago, the minimum pension rate was HUF 28 500, and I think it is a shame to say it in a civilised European country. The problem is, of course, on the basis of the proposal, not only what is being used as a number of relationships, because it is not a market service, but also a service which the local authorities are obliged to provide by law, which is prescribed by the State for the benefit of those in need, or entrusted to other maintainers. Maybe this will be the future: the needy will pay for everything, but I don't know what the next thing you will have to pay for the family support service, whether you will have to pay for the child welfare service, for the day care of the homeless. I'm curious to know when the social law will be redeployed. [[18.00]] I was a little upset about the justification for the proposal. This is in government material: experience shows that there is a lot of unjustified free provision of services. As I mentioned earlier, if there were any abuse, the control should have been strengthened. The reason behind the amendment is what we have heard from the wallet several times, that some of the maintainers have committed abuse and have taken up budget support without providing a real service. I have heard this many times, only if you are always involved in a service or radical transformation of the supply system by reference to this, then I respectfully ask the Secretary of State to send these messages to the Minister at times, and if at a government meeting we can talk about buying pianos, building stadiums, and so on. With regard to the amendment of the rules on home assistance, it appears that the tightening-up wave that started in January was continuing, since it was tightened up at regulation level that someone could be provided from a few points on the basis of the assessment of care needs. The threshold was raised from 11 to 20 points and the range of tasks that carers can carry out has been redefined. In the introduction of the measures, they also referred to abuse, saying that carers were neither in the care activities nor in the care activities of those who really needed it. The wallet continues to discredit caregivers. I think that we should not say such things, Mr Secretary of State, that a significant part of caregivers should not be allowed to come close to this form of care or simply to those who are provided. Look, we've known each other for a long time, and with our cooperation - since it's been almost 15 years now - we've been able to talk and negotiate very constructively about a lot of things. At a time when nearly 90,000 people work in this profession and these people are their souls, it's unfortunate to have a message like this. In particular, when it appears that the government is only deceiving them by raising their wages, undressing the payroll they are receiving, they add all kinds of payment supplements, but there is no consistent government decision because it is not a good answer that there will be a career model in a year or two, and that the wages will be adapted to this. I say it very modestly, because there wasn't a whole lot of sour cream when we were in government, but the last time the socialists raised wages in the social profession. There hasn't been a salary increase in the social field in seven years. I'd like to return to the two-tier service. With the January amendments, only those with a 20-point care needs can be entitled to care. However, presumably new beneficiaries not only require shopping and cleaning, but also need to perform a number of nursing tasks. Of course, there is a place for a debate, as I have mentioned, on which tasks can and should be qualified, but it must also be taken into account what is in the best interests of the caregivers, but there is now once again a proposal that has been decided without discussion, and I do not know whether the portfolio has, by the way, been negotiating with civil society organisations. I don't really understand what the real purpose of government intentions is. This could also be the way in which they imagine introducing a differentiated normative approach to differentiated needs. But then this will mean that not services requiring more tasks will be given more support than before, but less money will be given to tasks considered less by the government. But I hope not. It was only a logical conclusion, and please, Mr Secretary, disprove me if that is not the government's intention. MSZP supports the modernisation of the social system [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] make it more effective if this strengthens the reduction of access and territorial disparities and will not harm the people and territories affected. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-12-134	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Végó Sebestyén. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-12-135	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, What I usually say with each such package of laws or amendments, I tell you right now that we are really doing so much work on both child protection and social law, that we could really have put together a complex law - we are talking about parallel services, we are talking about a similar area - a complex service law that would cover everything and make the system much more operational. But that was meant to be a parentheses note. Some thoughts about home assistance. The amendments to the regulation in January and the debates in the Commission or in Parliament have already been discussed. What I resented at the time is that I understand the government's intention, and I could even say that from a professional point of view, I can agree with him to differentiate the supply. This may include raising a need for care in domestic assistance if there is a system below it. I think it is premature that, with a change in legislation in January, this has changed, and only later, at the entry into force of this law, will the other step that is needed, because we are talking about a 5 point difference in care needs, there still remains 15 points of care needs. Those old people can't stay out of sight, they can't stay out of sight, I'm not saying zero points, but let's just say, I'm telling you, we're gonna have to take care of them at least 10 points. This shortage is now being replaced by the government, but I think it is a mistake to leave a rather long period of time when people who could have been in the system are elderly people who would have been able to get into the system and if they hadn't needed serious professional or even health care, which domestic assistance provides in the new system, but rather lower, they could have used a service, because it has a preventive nature. We know very well that well-organized and well-functioning mental treatment at home, whether working with social helpers, can result in an elderly person not in more serious physical condition, not in need of specialized care or even in need of medical care. So I think that this is justified and understandable. Another question is how this will work in practice. I no longer have hope; because of five years of opposition and years in my profession, I have not experienced such positive changes or good ideas. We've experienced this on our own. I still hope that you can build this system well. The question of who can be a social helper, the scope of it and the scope of those people, I think, should be strengthened more strongly, because it is clear that we do not have professional expectations of them, such as health and care skills in the context of home assistance, but there are concerns that may be difficult from other points of view. One is that people who are not well prepared get out to older people, and many times even when it comes to mental treatment or minor help, they can do more harm than good, and we should be very careful not to let people who are using this position may want to harm those elderly people. This should be taken very seriously and the system of criteria for social assistance should be developed very seriously, both from a professional and practical point of view. What makes a difference to this proposal is that certain services are excluded from the tendering system. I can only support that. I know that this is because one of Mr Secretary of State's concerns is the support service, which I can understand, because I think that it is a very important sector, a very important part of basic social care. I am glad that this is out of the tendering system, because in the same way that I didn't say at home assistance, but before I was told, the same can be said about the services that are included in the tendering system, especially the support service, that I know very well that before the introduction of the tendering system, there were terrible abuses. [[18.10]] I know very well that car dealers have announced a fleet of motor vehicles in support services, and they have taken up the norm, but the solution to this was not to hit the system with a tendering system as a lawnmower, but should have been strictly controlled. When the tendering system was introduced and started, I had an expert carry out a three-county research and the result was that the introduction of the tendering system caused white spots in the supply. There's still unpopulated areas. I hope that if this service is returned to the normative system, then perhaps these white areas will cease to exist, will not be like this, and that this very important sector can actually function as a basic social care. It is also to be welcomed that two more services will be removed from the tendering system. My only question is, what about the rest of it? I would like to highlight one more from the bidding system, this is street social work. I think that, in the same way, the basic benefits with normative support should also include street social work. As I said on one of the previous agendas, today is a day where three agenda items are closely linked. This is sexual violence against children or violence, inter-relationship violence, and this is the law, which is on the same path on many issues. This is the inclusion of safe houses in the law, which I can welcome, as well as the crisis center section. I also mentioned it in that debate, but I did not get an answer - and I would like an answer - why they consider it a good solution that temporary homes for families will operate these centres. What will this mean in practice? By the way, in the previous debate, the secretary of state nodded when I said that, I think, this is why the transitional home of families is a nationwide system, and it is easy to build this crisis system - in quotes - so that more institutions can be placed in more places, even better hidden, with greater secrets and greater cover. My only question is how this will be filled with professional content, and the temporary home of families requires entirely different professional skills, even a completely different degree, and very often a completely different habitat than participation in such a crisis system. So my question is that I would like to build this on as an institution, only from a practical point of view, and within the framework of the institution, professionals with adequate preparedness and qualifications will also fill the crisis places, the seats as well, or the wrong solution will be to put this service on the temporary home of families. I would therefore like to have an answer to that. This bill does a lot of work on the social sector portal. A site like this is currently in operation, as we know, but it was not specifically included in the law. I am very confident that the inclusion of this portal in the law will bring about a qualitative change and improvement. Let's say, if you look at what the law names, the list of institutions that have committed either a violation of the law or are actually operating without a license, then the latest update on the current page is 2013. I do not think that this is in the full interest of the profession or those who wish to apply for care. I don't know if there's gonna be any content behind this, whether it's just what's in the law right now, or whether it's actually a legal guarantee that this system can function normally and functionally. Because if there is a well-functioning sectoral portal, I think that it can be a sure point for both the participants in the profession and for us, for social policy makers, for those who are in need of care or already for those who are in need of care, a certain starting point. Here, I would suggest that we try to update it on the one hand, this is currently a bit of a concern on the site, and on the other hand, its treatment should be made a little easier, because we know very well that especially those who would like to apply for, say, a social benefit themselves may not be so familiar with the IT world, and even those who are more familiar with IT a lot of times, if they are looking for answers to certain questions, then this page is a little complicated in this regard. The other issue is the issue of fines. I don't think it's enough to define minimum and maximum fines, but it's got to be put in the law much more circumstantial. I think that, unfortunately, without its own fault, many social institutions in Hungary are breaking the law today, and not because they are unprofessional, and not because incompetent people are running or operating that institution, but because, as a result of the current normative conditions and because of the underfunded sector, there are shortcomings that are simply unable to remedy. Therefore, very often there are anomalies or, in many cases, violations of the law in the course of a review. It is therefore necessary to differentiate, because if such an institution is even fined for a failure that it cannot do because of its limited financial framework, then we will permanently render this institution inoperable. However, to highlight one, I think of the homes of illegal elderly people, where they actually risk human lives with their everyday activities, because I had a colleague when I worked in the profession, who worked in a second job in the home of such an illegal elderly person, who pulled his 12-hour day shift at my workplace, where we were colleagues, and then went on a 12-hour shift to the home of illegal elderly people. They didn't care about it, they didn't comply with the laws, they couldn't be held accountable because he was fighting for his livelihood, but I don't really think he was able to do his job so well that he could guarantee the safety of the people there. And I think that in these cases, when these things come to light, perhaps even the maximum fine is low compared to the damage they do to the profession and even to the tragedy of one individual or family life. I have yet to make one more brief comment on the amendment, although it is a minor amendment, and it is at the beginning of the law, in the family services, if a case is closed on one occasion, then the family care provider will have an administrative obligation here as well. You have to write a report on this, and I welcome that, because there must also be a record of these cases, and perhaps, if these families and clients are later included in the system, then you can know about your history and history, whether you can continue, or you can provide the family with appropriate professional assistance with such a preview. On the other hand, if we are going to do so, it would be worth considering it in a next package, or even at regulation level, at the level of regulations dealing with the profession, the sector, but in other areas, simplifying the administration. 'Cause I could tell you right now, 35 minutes wouldn't be enough, let alone how many areas there are, whether within the child welfare service or within the family support service listed by the law, but from any sector where colleagues are exposed to excessive and unnecessary administrative burdens. In many cases, the administration is at the expense of the actual work, and what we have achieved is that in many cases, in particular through continuous checks, colleagues are slowly working on paper and filtering their effectiveness on the basis of it. I think it would be worth considering this and introducing in a next package the simplification and facilitation of other administrative burdens. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-12-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is István Ikotity. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-12-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. Social law is one of the most embarrassing legislation, it has been amended on average every 100 days since its birth, with more than 500 amendments and thousands of changes. The change in the law is a bit like the formation of sedimentary rocks as layers are loaded on it. [[18.20]] The social law and the Child Protection Act in their present form are complex, incomprehensible and incomprehensible in many places. It says a lot that the social need category itself is not entirely clear, it is a real rubber category. They've tried to replace the law many times in vain, and they've never succeeded. For example, Károly Czibere's old idea of the current Minister of State for Social Affairs is the preparation of the so-called Service Act. For the time being, he has not been able to achieve his ideas; he has always been able to smuggle a little of it into the current changes. We're looking at a process of absolving. It would help transparency and interpretation if there was a separate legislation for services and another legislation for cash benefits, in which all target groups would be provided according to their needs. In the present form of social law, it is not suitable for a XXI. guarantee minimum social security in the last century. Let's take a look at these current absolutions. The amendment would like to bring the legislation into line with the logic of the legislation used earlier, that certain subsidies cannot be regarded as income when establishing entitlements, and therefore, in addition to exceptional municipal aid, aid for housing purposes, debt management purposes and health expenditure would not be regarded as income in the future, as has been the case in the past. It is a pleasure that the government will admit its error and return to previous regulations. If the law were logical, for example, this regulation could be resolved in a much simpler way, it could simply be said that the so-called income supplement, so that everything that is not a substitute for income, would fall into this category. The development of the number of users and the monitoring of access to the service will indeed help if the use of the services is also recorded in the case of family supporters, where no further care will be provided after the first interview, as professional activity can also be closed with the action taken during the first interview. However, it should also be noted that opaque social legislation is subject to opaque and burdensome reporting obligations. Even though they are simplified, it can still be said that social workers make unnecessary paper for a large part of their working time instead of really focusing on the people in need. Paperwork takes time away from professional activity. There is a urgent need to radically reduce and simplify administration. Social workers should be trusted, not all their activities need to be monitored, every detail recorded. It is also noted that the National Rehabilitation and Social Office operates a sectoral portal. According to the justification of the text, this interface is a place of broad information for both the profession and the interested citizens. It is very sad for the government to see it as a wide-ranging information access, which is currently taking place on this portal. For simple users, Google is significantly more helpful than the theoretically structured information portal. The LMP has previously initiated the implementation of the social services concept, which focuses on easy handling and accurate information; I myself suggested this as a starting point in a post- Agenda comment. Access to the service can be improved through user-friendly transfer of information. According to the LMP, a website should be created to show what social services are in the vicinity of the user's residence and what he can use. In addition, they would allow not only district and urban search, but also problem-specific screening. With the help of a user-friendly website, anyone can read a detailed description of the functions of the institutions, the benefits and services available. In addition to social services, health or even educational services, institutions could be included in this database. The aim is clearly to provide information and to facilitate access to services. That would be a real social portal. This is not the case, but significant TÁMOP funds have been spent on it. The major change is that in the case of three services, support services, community benefits and street social work, they return to the former model of financing, which worked until 2009. Instead of funding with the current tender principle, they return to normative funding. What does that mean? Back in the bucket from Ceber to Ceber. Both forms of support are, of course, perfect for the current fragmented, resource-deficient, wasteful operation at the same time. Those who know the social work sound familiar with a professional study entitled "The Clothes of the protégáló beggar." The authors provide a perfect, valid view of the anomalies in the financing and operation of social services. In short, normative care creates ever-growing regulation, and Bureaucratizes the system. While inflexible and killing the creativity of the profession, it strangles independent local initiatives, as those who do not comply with strict rules and administration will not fit into funding. Proposal funding, although in principle more flexible, has the greatest disadvantage of uncertainty. You can either get funding or you can't get it if you meet the conditions. As a result of the two mechanisms, there may be places where parallel services are operated and white spots, careless districts can develop at the same time. The solution would be a top-up, but not state-run, service management and purchase model. We could talk about a regional, county or even regional level here. The working group led by the Secretary of State put a serious professional material on the table in 2011, which was the national social policy concept. This is a very good starting point, it was a good discussion paper, and LMP wanted this material to be discussed if, on this basis, a real social reform had been launched. Unfortunately, the social secretary headed by Miklós Soltész at the time was mindful of the material. What we don't understand is why the new secretary of state, Károly Czibere, doesn't take it out of the drawer, why he doesn't fight for his own material. True, more has been accomplished, but many of its elements have been reversed, and let us think of nationalizations. Returning to the issue of financing and the organisation of services, the national social policy concept, similarly to the professional material referred to above, outlines a top-up model. The basis of the new system outlined in this national social policy concept, I quote from the concept:.Two centralized bodies, the Social Administration Centre and the Support and Advisory Centre, which would manage and organise access to services and cash benefits. The centres operating on a county basis operate at district level, the TTKs operate at district and subregional level, with micro-regional and municipal access points. The two centres would work together with a simplified procedure and a short deadline. I'm not going to continue with anyone who's experienced in the social profession, you know what we're talking about. Compared to this, transferring three benefits back to normative financing, this is a solution-adaptment, everything but reform, not progress, not courageous policy business. The brave author of the national social policy concept, Károly Czibere, has lost his courage, it seems. And then there's the other important change, the amendment of the rules on home assistance. Poor house help, they keep grating on it. On the one hand, we are hearing - we are saying - liberal speech, that care needs to be more targeted and focused on the needy, and that stowaways should be filtered out. In reality, however, this always means that liberals are drawing the circle of need ever narrower, wanting to let less and less into benefits because they do not want to spend money for social purposes, or they want to leave the task to the market. The Fidesz-KDNP, which is otherwise right-wing, therefore pursues a liberal policy, which calls for the need to be narrower, but we have already said this a thousand times in relation to other measures. Let's get back to home assistance. The whole affair began with the fact that in 2013 signal-based home assistance was taken away from the municipalities and nationalised, as was the case with specialized services. [[18.30]] By the way, no one could understand why a basic supply should be made public, why it should not remain a municipal authority. Smearing also reached home assistance early this year. They found out that there are supposedly all kinds of inappropriate tasks to be performed by domestic helpers. Instead of taking care of the caterers, they clean rabbit cages, clean up after pigs, mow grass, weed, and cut grapes. In January, the Secretary of State gave a long list of examples. Well, these activities have, by the way, rightly, been restricted - although it is possible to argue about what legitimate need is, what it is necessary or acceptable to do in-house or in-house - and then, on the basis of unjustified use, they have dramatically increased the threshold for home assistance. This has nothing to do with rabbit cage cleaning. What has happened is that only people who need to be cared for in many ways will now benefit from care. The less sick, the less difficult to move, the shopping, the cleaning, the less able to care for themselves will not help, although in many cases they too would need a great deal of care. So, obviously, I'm thinking of the hard-working people here. It was the beginning of the year, and now there's another variation. It is an important change to differentiate the care according to needs. There are basically two areas of activity: social assistance and personal care. Social assistance is intended to meet lower needs, and personal care would address intensive needs, such as nursing tasks. Social assistance could also be done by an untrained person, and personal care should be provided only by qualified caregivers and nurses. Well, the new framework can indeed be suitable for a more efficient and theoretically beneficial transfer of existing capacities, and we do not exclude this possibility. At the same time, seeing previous changes, tightening ups, the trend is in the direction that they want to put more beneficiaries out of this system. We also know that better care cannot be provided without a substantial increase in resources. If we take the money somewhere within the lack of resources system for the benefit of others, then the transfer will hurt someone. People who have a legitimate need for care right now will be left out of this in the future. Nor is it clear that what if one needs personal care and social assistance - can the two be used together? You can't see the exact activities of social assistance and personal care, and the devil is often in detail. It may be unfortunate for certain activities not to require professional qualifications for their orders. Social assistance does not require such a degree, however, activities cannot always be separated from each other, for example, while maintaining residential hygiene, some mental assistance is being provided, so this is where the recipient and the helper are talking to each other. Or you can recognize in social assistance that the client has a more serious problem and requires other types of professional assistance. The lack of skills here could be a problem for the social worker. Differentiation according to care needs exceeding and equal to four hours a day remains; this is an untimely, unviable, poor system. It is important, but it is not certain that a positive change is also the fact that it significantly reduces the number of people who can use home assistance free of charge. From now on, only those who do not have income can receive free benefits. Overall, we see a new process of absolving the system, changing the rules, but the point remains unchanged, we see. The Hungarian social system will continue to be unable to fulfil its original function without a substantial change of perspective, substantial expansion of resources and substantial rewriting of the legislation: a minimum, XXI for everyone. guaranteeing social security in the first century. Thank you.
u2015-06-12-138	Thank you very much, Congressman. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] [[No one's reporting.]] Of the independent congressmen? (No one's reporting. ) No. Thank you very much. Then we have a two-minute speech. Congressman Sándor Kovács has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I didn't want to say anything, but my colleague Korózs's exposé led me to think that I would like to respond to two things. One is that there is a huge difference between social security and the insurance model, and when he referred back to more than a hundred years of insurance, I think that the government that terminated the disability pension, for example, in the career model of armed bodies, is replacing it with a Community insurance risk, so I think that there is a system in progress that provides security after health damage or periods in vulnerable jobs. Then I think he forgot, but just in 2009, under his undersecretary of state, the withdrawal that is about the always existing fee for compensation was increased. For the sake of the record alone, I would say that the fee has always been compulsory, and it is called an institutional fee when it is calculated what theoretical number is associated with the operation of the institution, and then, on the basis of the individual social situation, the personal fee is also fixed, and at the time of his State Secretary, this 20% rate has been increased to 25 per cent withdrawal. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-12-140	Thank you, Congressman. A proper speech will come from the MSZP Group, Mr Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Károly Czibere, State Secretary, in his introductory thoughts, spoke about the importance of old age security. There's no difference in view between us. How important it is for old age security to be in this regard, however, I would like to shed some, but only a few, light on how the Orbán government and in this lunar courtyard help this process to evolve. Then, if you do not agree with him, I would ask you not to answer in the summary, when you can no longer have a reply back to you, but to answer in the process, so that we can discuss this question. Look, I'm sure old-age security isn't born, let's say, to say, the minimum retirement pension, they've been in government for the sixth year, and it hasn't changed by a penny in six years. You know him, 28 500 forints. With regard to old-age security, I would just like to say to you that, if you do not know the numbers, it should be clear that from 1990 onwards there has not been a government cycle - also in the first Orbán government - during which period the minimum age pension would not have increased. So, in any government cycle, there was no situation like what is now, in the sixth year of your second and third Orbán government, when this situation does not change. 28 500 forints. So this old-age security, to freeze it, glue it, doesn't change it, we've been holding the minimum retirement pension for the sixth year at 28 500 forints. Unprecedented! I'm sure you know as well as I do - we assume even more - how many people in this country receive pensions between 10 thousand and 50 thousand forints for pensioners. If you don't happen to know the numbers, then I'll tell you the story of the last few years: there are between 80 and 100 thousand people who receive a pension of this magnitude between 10 thousand and 50 thousand forints. This is the creation of old age security in the spirit of today's governance. Obviously, it is not easy to change, it is not easy to do moderate increases, and I am fully aware of that. But as I said, it is unparalleled that for the sixth year, a single penny did not change the minimum amount of the old-age pension. This is to provide another example, such as the civil servant's salary fund, which is also frozen to HUF 38 650 during their sixth year government. This is also an item in respect of which there has not been a government cycle since 1990 where there has not been any change, without an increase in the amount of the salary base. [[18.40]] For example, for the sixth year of this year, the civil servant's salary has not increased by a penny, as I said, HUF 38 650, as the minimum of the old-age pension is HUF 28 500. And in addition to all this, the paid social benefit appears, in the sense that it is paired with 1 percent of the current old-age pension minimum, i.e. 285/hour. This, translated into Hungarian, means that the use of 100 hours of service in a given month, with, say, a 30-day average of a month, 3-4 hours of daily service means that there will be no one penny left of the old-age pension minimum, only to pay for this service; if and if this 285 HUF/person hourly fee is fact and true, as the bill states. I see you wagging your head, Mr. Secretary. I'm happy to hear your head-wagging, because then it's probably better than that, and then you'll tell us that, and then we'll be able to talk more about why what you're saying is wrong. I'm telling you, I'm going to envelop it in advance, that I can tell you that I just want to hear it from your mouth before, I'm telling you, you're going to tell me everything you can't answer as a debate closing. The third part of the story is that people in the social sphere are fundamentally suffering from their sixth annual governance, if we look at the position of wages in terms of wage increases, so much has not been done in this respect. Although you can explain your position here as to why they did or what they did, there were no tangible wage increases in this regard. And then it was strictly -- it was also a matter of law, because I quoted a few sentences from the law, but strictly approaching the content of the law, I would like to say the following. There are situations, situations of life, when interviewing approaches make problem solutions practically feasible. In these cases registration is carried out, so in some sense anonymity is overwritten. I think these are unnecessary for such a simple solution, for one-time interviews, because they are a brake. Technically, when people have to provide their personal data in a sense, it doesn't matter who they are, they become a little more limited, they become more braked, even as regards the use of services. In the case of caregiver activity, there is this fragmentation in both directions. One is social assistance, which is basically, if we strip it down a lot, it's about going to clean and shop instead of to the old man, and the other is personal care, which, of course, is much more, obviously, a range of care and care activities. My fellow Member, Mr Sebestyén, said that in relation to the scope of social assistance itself, where anyone should be able to carry out this activity in principle, it is necessary to be sufficiently careful in some sense, so that, in the case of the elderly people in need, it is not for anyone, but for people with personality traits and talents, which are in absolute fact accompanied by a humane attitude, a third, a fourth and a sixteenth degree, together with marks that confirm the importance, necessity and not alienation of the use of the service in these elderly people. So I don't think the category of anyone is appropriate in this regard. The other part, as far as personal care is concerned, the issue of care and care is obviously not imaginable except by using or intervening skilled people. But I don't think you or you think otherwise, either. But if you do, I'm gonna ask you to say it. Meanwhile, with regard to the division of the task, if I recall correctly, the draft law entails the need to carry out, by the end of this year, a review of the beneficiaries, so to say, so that it can be categorized, broken down separately, who is entitled to use and what services. But the most important thing is, I'm going back to where I started, the most important thing is the minimum fee category. This critical HUF 285 is 1 percent of the minimum old-age pension, which brings about the issue of paying social benefits, and what I have said is that the use of 100 such hours actually consumes the amount of the pension minimum of old-age. As regards the reduction of remuneration fees, it is not the law that says that I should not read out of the draft law that it is necessary to reduce if, say, the per capita income position in a given family reaches twice the old-age pension minimum, or if it is single, it reaches two and a half times the one, but it is possible to reduce it - it is possible to reduce it. It can be reduced and reduced is not the same category. I would like to ask, Mr Secretary of State, that this should be reduced in this respect. So if the per capita income in the family does not exceed twice the old-age pension minimum, then you do not have to pay HUF 285 per hour or reduce it. Similarly, when it comes to a single person, the two-and-a-half-fold multiplier of the old-age pension minimum, if it does not exceed what the person concerned can practically own, it is not possible to reduce, but rather to reduce, these specific figures, these rates, in Hungarian: the HUF 285 per hour fee rate. What is still reflected in my reading is, on the one hand, that administrative activity is growing in a moderate way, although, once again, in this respect, my fellow Members are talking about, on the one hand, how important it is to have the administrative background that is needed, and my fellow Members are talking about the proliferation of administration. What I would like to say here is that, yes, there is one where the administrative background has to be, and there is one where it is completely unnecessary, as I have said, for example, in such interview forms and in other cases. I don't want to go into details about the administrative fines, but I'd like to point out that I think it's two-edged. So it would not be good in any way to make it revenue-oriented through fines, as we have seen in recent years with regard to the labour sector, where appropriate. One word, like a hundred, only in terms of rationality and the fine for the benefit of the people who have received it, is, in my opinion, a place to increase budget revenue. The reason I'm not going to break out the importance of secret safe houses is because we talked about it on two agendas ago. I just want to say that I think it is very important, especially in the case of those who are in immediate danger or fleeing. And I also think it is important that the social sphere always ensure that there is an empty place for people to be placed in such a life situation. And I think it is a good thing that provides for a longer period of accommodation, if necessary for six months. Protection and confidentiality are of particular importance in these matters, and, therefore, it is necessary to ensure a longer period of time because there may obviously be life situations, mentally and medically, for which assistance needs to be provided. [[18.50]] In terms of invalid care, there are two more thoughts. I consider it a confession in this bill. It's a huge failure behind their backs, but let's not talk about it, let's look into the future, because tens of thousands of families have been brought into a vulnerable life situation, who have suffered from the actions you have taken, but what the hell, we're over it, they're over it, and they're going to suffer the political benefits of this. But what I am saying now is that what means regulating the issue of unnecessary tests and losses in the period prior to the retirement age of five years, I think it is appropriate, so that part of it can be supported. One word, like a hundred, I don't want to give up on formal reasons, but let me give you one. I would like to ask your colleagues, who are preparing these proposals behind your back, to ask, if possible, that references which do not exist in the draft law be not marked, because this puts you in a ridiculous position. Let's just say paragraph zero doesn't appear in the bill, but I could tell you something else. I'm not sure that's gonna do you any good. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-12-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Mr Károly Czibere asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-143	Thank you very much. I would like to answer to Mr Nándor Gúr. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, - who asked me not to answer in the summary. Now I would like to say two things that I will not touch in the summary, the rest I will touch in the summary. One is the situation of old age security. Let's just nail some facts down and put them on the table. I am not saying it, but Tarki and KSH data indicate that pension and pension systems are one of the most important elements of the safety of older people in Hungary. It can be seen that all the analyses show that the pension system is basically the most important instrument for the creation of old age security, and that it is also doing so effectively. If we look at it, in recent years, the value and size of pensions has increased above inflation levels every year. If you look at the last data on the Tarki or the previous KSH data, you can see that the proportion of elderly people at risk of poverty is one third of the overall poverty risk rate. A third! Thus, when we talk about the safety of older people, about income security in old age, there are very strong facts on the income side that this security exists. If we move this to the service page, we can see that in recent years the total number of government's domestic assistance has increased by almost HUF 10 billion. We can see that funding for nursing homes has also increased by at least this much as a result of the normative increase in 2013. We can see that in recent years the government has modernised 3300 old-age home seats and renewed nearly HUF 9 billion. And let me not list the part of the service sector concerning the strengthening of security in the elderly. I'd like to add one thing, though, and that's the pay question. That's the other thing I'm not gonna respond to in the end. We don't think it's an understatement. The government knows and recognises the situation and pay conditions of people living in the social sector, and knows that the wages of social professionals and workers in the social sector are also low in comparison with the national economy. Here was the point, Mr Korózs said that last time the socialist government raised wages in 2003, but I must add the second half of the sentence, that a significant part of the wage increase has been passed on to the maintainers, to farm it out as well as you can. That was the 50 percent wage increase. Moreover, this period was the beginning of debt. In 2014, the government increased the wages of 93,000 employees in the social sector from HUF 12 billion to HUF 143 thousand gross/month/person to HUF 155 thousand. This is basically evidence that it was possible not to increase the cost of savings, withdrawals or others, not with the country's debt, but in parallel with the structural reform and transformation of social services, but entirely from external sources, with each type of maintenance benefiting from it and not having to be absorbed and sweated out by the maintainers as it was in the past. This was the 12-billion-dollar wage substitute in 2014. The government decided two weeks ago - after continuing the steps of structural renewal - that this would be complemented by a next element in 2015 and that it would provide a salary supplement to social workers from 1 July 2015 with the basic aim of pulling the wage structure, which had been slightly crushed by the minimum wage increase and the wage bonus, in order to make it worth studying, is worth getting a higher education, and it is worth staying on this track in the long term to make this career attractive. So the higher education, the long service period, will be recognized by the government. The government is expected to decide on this in the coming weeks, but it is the framework itself, HUF 7.6 billion for the second half of 2015 and the temporal scope - July 1, 2015 - it's already decided. So these are not promises, but decided facts. The government receives both steps, i.e. the 2014 wage supplement and the 2015 wage supplement, which again applies to all four types of maintenance, once again an external source, not with the system's internal savings or possible withdrawals, from the outside, which is an additional source in the sector, i.e. in the service sector. This is an annual increase of 12 billion in 2014 and 15.3 billion in 2015. I think it is indeed an important message for social professionals that the government knows, recognises and tries to appreciate their work. I'll respond to the rest of the points at the end. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-12-144	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Ferenc Hirt asked for a proper speech from Fidesz. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-12-145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I did not plan to make a speech today, but our fellow Member Nándor Gúr pissed me off on the part of the socialists, so I would like to serve some numbers. Dear fellow Member, After your shameful eight years, you keep communicating that everything was good and good at the time, and that Fidesz is socially insensitive. At their meeting today, they also said to the Prime Minister that, through this, you are Europe. Well, I'd like to tell you how much you were Europeans in the social field between 2008 and 2010. If I tried to talk about more, it would be a time frame for me. Basic service, social catering. You reduced social catering from HUF 82 000 to HUF 55 362 by 2010, which is a 32 percent reduction. Home assistance has been reduced from 190 thousand forints to 166 087 forints, which is a 13 percent decrease. The services of the village manager or staff were reduced from HUF 2 million 237 thousand to HUF 2 million 99 thousand; this is only a 6 percent decrease. The day-to-day institutional care of the elderly was reduced from HUF 150,000 to HUF 88 580, which is a 41 percent reduction. [[19.00]] Is that what you're so proud of? But I'm gonna go on with it, okay? The day-to-day institutional care of people with disabilities and dementia has been reduced from HUF 465,000 to HUF 405 thousand, which is a 13 percent decrease. I'm not going to tell you any more because it's unnecessary. The increased level of care was reduced from HUF 560,000 to HUF 309,000, which is a 45 percent decrease. If you're so proud of that, all I can say is bravo. There's another long card, so I'd be happy to list it, but I don't want to postpone the trial of the next law. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-12-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute comment will be made by Congressman Nándor Gúr. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have two simple comments and two requests. One of my comments is - eight years? They've been steering for the sixth year, so let's talk about that. They've been steering for the sixth year! If we made mistakes, after eight years of closure, the electorate deducted the consequences and made a change of government. You will talk about the events of the last six years, five and a half years, about what you have done, about the fact that you have remained unchanged for six years, and you have not changed a penny of the minimum pension, so talk about it, my fellow Member. About the fact that the sixth year of the civil servant's salary fund did not change with a single penny, HUF 38 650. I can give you a number of figures, too. That's what you have to account for. You've been ruling for the sixth year. So slowly wipe the eight and the 20 and the 80 and the 2628 years out of your brain. Start talking about six years of government. Secretary of State, involving external resources and much more. Forints 3000 billion were confiscated from private pension schemes alone. For 300 years, ten billion forints is enough for that money. Let's not start talking about these things because it doesn't make sense. Think about where you got the resources you pick up like that. I'd like to ask you for two, just two, and I'd like you to help me with this for the sake of these people. One: change pensions, change the fact that the old-age pension minimum will continue to be 28 500 forints in the coming period, this is unworthy. Two: when using services, there should not be the possibility that if the specific amounts per capita are the same as they are, it should be possible to reduce the fees per hour of 285 HUF/hour, but to make it clear! Make it clear. Then don't do it on request, but on the basis of automaticism! I think it's in the best interest of the people. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-06-12-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. At the same time, Mr Sebestyén, the editor, asked for the floor for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-149	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. The Secretary of State answered a question about the career model of social workers and their wage arrangements. We've listened to this a lot. We have listened to this many times, especially in response to immediate questions and questions from Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, but this does not satisfy the workers in the profession. The fact that the increase was made last year with the allowance, we know very well what the increase with the bonus meant, how much it meant in reality, a few thousand forints of realizable wage growth for those working in the profession alone. What's happening now means that it's good, of course, it can be explained, and I understand the logic of motivating people to go on learning, have a higher education in their profession, or spend more time - but they don't have any more time! Anyone who earns so little that it's not enough to starve to death can't wait 15-20 years for him to fall into that category. Here, too, I can say the same thing as I can say about the lack of a service law: it is not necessary to absolve and absolve a poor wage system, but to set up a new and actual social career model. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-12-150	Thank you very much. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the sign of Charles Czibere:]] Yes, he does. The Secretary of State has the floor, please.
u2015-06-12-151	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear House, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much, first of all, for the proposals, the opinions and the general approach. It was very good to hear that in the diagnosis, for example, as regards home assistance, what is the real situation in the area, what problems the maintenance, service providers, professionals are having; very often the diagnosis was very similar, the approach was very similar, I also thank you and thank you specifically for the proposals that have been formulated. Let me, however, respond specifically to some of the recent speeches by Mr Sebestyén Csápó. Yes, I also think that the colleagues have waited a long time, and we need to help here and now. So when I say that the basic purpose of the pay supplement for the. 15 is to learn and get a higher education, I'm not saying that you should study now, and then in five years there will be a degree, and then five years, and then it will be good. This is the proposal that we are making now, but we are still waiting for the opinion of the social partners - because in the last two weeks we have discussed with organisations, professional organisations and maintenance almost every day what to do with the method of distribution and the principle of differentiation - in this we are basically representing those with higher qualifications, so basically E, F, G, H, and have priority. So there's been a misunderstanding in the press about the fact that, for example, it doesn't mean time for a pensioner; someone once planted it, and it's been very difficult for us to deny it ever since. This is not true, both the bonus and the supplement are basically qualifying. On the other hand, one of the basic principles of the current wage supplement is that physical workers do not receive only professionals. That's the principle of career. Now that is not the principle, but that in those categories defined by the Public Employee Act - Kjt. he employs such - which has not been affected in recent years by the minimum wage increase and the wage supplement, which has been limited, and thus created a very pressed, very compressed wage structure, which can really estimate very little, to a lesser extent, the highly qualified, rich experience, the long-service professionals on the field, we try to enforce this more, to show appreciation to them, to keep the profession - to keep the profession! We can achieve this by dividing the extra wage between HUF 6-17 thousand gross/month in 2014, here, according to the current ideas - but we are still waiting for the proposals, it is still not final - HUF 6 and HUF 60 thousand/month/person gross is what we would like to introduce. So basically, those who have been working in the area for a long time, who have very rich experience, and who need this experience, this skill in the profession and industry, cannot - we agree - make a salary increase of 6-8-10 thousand forints, but there is a need for an increase of 25-30-35 thousand forints, a wage supplement, because it will be able to give a signal and create a wage structure that can then be built on the course of life. Once again, the purpose of the present is not to raise the same amount of money for everyone, but to try to give the skilled people the message that we do need you, and we want to keep you and appreciate you - and in this wage structure, we believe that we can achieve it. Now, back to the other points, let me respond. I am sure that Congressman Korózs and Mr Nándor Gúr missed him, and I said in the debate that the fee regulation was not sufficiently nuanced and that we were withdrawing it. So the fee regulation that is currently included is withdrawn by us, that is the case, because our investigations show that while it is an important issue, as I said in the expozee, it is a matter of income need, if we look at the cities and settlements in Hungary, for example, a lot of people - as many of us have said here - apply a fee regulation that we would like to have, and this is a differentiated fee regulation, but this, while handling it, has to be dealt with at the same time with the need for care. [[19.10]] There should not be a fee regulation which differentiates by encouraging those with a higher self-sufficiency problem to do so, even if such a risk has arisen, to do so and to put them at a disadvantage. So this is the reason why we are now withdrawing this in this form, and we are holding up both opposition and pro-government amendments, which have been on this issue, and we agree with them. At the same time, I also noted in the Expo that we would like to keep this issue on the surface, so the question of encouraging the maintainers to care for the poorer elderly according to the level of income need. So it doesn't work, and a lot of people here have said that there is a uniform, uniform regulation, there is a uniform financing, because it doesn't really encourage - and I thank Mr Ikotity here from the NSC for the quote - it's not an incentive for such uniform regulation and uniform financing to provide the most miserable, deprived people to the maintenance staff, but rather for skimming off in many cases, and it is therefore important to differentiate according to the level of care needs and the level of income constraints. The reason I've been wagging my head in the calculation is because there's no such thing as multiplying certain hours, and then the old man's full pension will cost him the care fee, because the law contains the maximum amount of money. In the nursing home 80 percent, but in home care in 2009 the rate was raised from 20 to 25 percent, the maximum threshold is the limit that the maintenance can ask the elderly for the home care service. Thus, the monthly amount of the fee cannot exceed a certain limit by multiplying it. So much for the fee. I would especially like to thank you, Mr Korózs, for saying very harsh words, even with tougher words than I, that it is not normal, what is in this area, that it has happy and unhappy access, that they may be deprived, and that they must be very hard and hard to get into the system. I wrote that down literally. We totally agree. We also agree, as I said in the expozee, that the transformation of control is an important part, but, as I said before, differentiated eligibility rules, differentiated professional content regulation, so that is exactly what Mr Nándor Gúr said that different degrees require different levels of professional qualifications, of course, will be regulated in this way, and then the level of funding should be determined in this way. Here was the one who told me I didn't want to accuse anyone, that this is what we're preparing for extraction. There is no such intention. As I said, in the last four to five years, the housekeeping register has increased by HUF 9-10 billion, and there is no such intention to withdraw funds. It is intended that this source... and this is not liberal talk or liberal speech, as Congressman Ikotity said... The taxpayer gave us this money to really feed the most needy people. This is not a liberal talk, it is a responsible attitude towards using public funds. It is our shared responsibility to provide these services to those who really need them and to actually get the help where they are needed, and I therefore thank you for the proposals that have basically proposed in this direction. It's not about crowding people out, pulling resources out of the system, taking money. I don't know what similar wordings came up. These are, of course, still not the case. We would also reject that this is absolving and absolving. In fact, since the past decades, a certain system of social services has been established, a regulatory logic. The very reason why the system should not be turned upside down is precisely to create long-term stability in this. These are not absolutions, but a re-cleaning of the '93 funds to really get the help where it is needed. The next question I have written is, yes, Mr Sebestyén Vágó asked the CSÁO. There is no such intention to burden it, so there is no such intention to burden it on the temporary homes of families. He asked the F.A.P. That's right, we also want to have a sectoral portal from January, which would include, on the one hand, potential clients and their relatives, customers, and, on the other hand, maintenance information, i.e. ready-to-day information about the daily life of the regulatory and service system towards service providers and professional partners. This is a definite idea, and the NRSR must do so by January. The reason why social work on the street is not yet included in the transition services - and I thank you for the words of appreciation for the support service - is that in these months we would like to develop a new approach to social services for homeless people, with the involvement of professional partners, in relation to full homeless care, and it is part of this to renew the social work on the street. The social work on the street, we think, in some sense, needs to be turned into a crisis service where there's immediate movement on the spot. We see that some of the service providers have become a little more comfortable. So we would like to strengthen the focus of this service a little, but we would like to deal with it in this large homeless package. Comments on illegal nursing homes were also very welcome. We think that this is an important way of saying that today, an important element of the safety of older people in Hungary is that older people do not rely on service providers with questionable backgrounds that basically do not provide any services, but put away a one-time entrance or a care fee and then leave the elderly alone. It is in common interest that we explore, fine and push them out of this sector so that it is indeed the providers of socially prepared professionals who provide them and where they can receive real help. It was an important issue, some said the increase in administrative burdens. Back in 2011, under the leadership of State Secretary Soltész, there was a large comprehensive package of social regulations to reduce the administration, called the Red Ceruzás, reform, which made them basically accurate for these services, which many people talked about, tried to simplify parallel data services, parallel documentation systems, parallel registration systems, and I think that they are successful. The other thing to add to the administration is that it should be noted that when public money is entrusted to us, it is expected to be used in a documented manner. Basically, we want to take the regulation in the direction of continuously strengthening the nature of the protocol for social services. For example, in the case of child welfare services, the signal comes in from the warning system, what to do in 5 minutes, what to do in 10 minutes, and the rest. And that's why we have to make sure that everyone has done their own responsibilities, their own business in time. So we think that, of course, simplifying unjustified administrative and documentation systems remains our task, but we need to see that measuring processes and service performance, measuring professional effectiveness, requires that in certain areas there should be more detailed documentation, on a process-accompanying basis, in order to be able to account for how we have spent the resources entrusted to us. [[19.20]] Maybe that was the most important thing. I tried to answer all the questions. If anyone does have a feeling of absence, I'd like to apologize. If there is such a signal, we will answer it in writing. Finally, we believe that these proposals, as I indicated at the beginning of the expoze, are an important step in the process of structural renewal of social services, targeting, greater representation of both care and income constraints and the development of a differentiated service system based on them, and, of course, we will continue this direction in the autumn package, which I can already indicate. Thank you once again for the opinions, the proposals, and of course we will take them into account in the preparation of the autumn package. I ask you to support this proposal with your votes. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-12-152	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments were submitted by 16:00 yesterday. I'm gonna need a three-minute technical break, so we're gonna take it from there. [[It's a short break.]] Thank you for your understanding. We're back in session. There will be a general debate on the bill amending certain laws governing higher education until closure. The submission is T/4767. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Palkovics, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-12-153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The operation, education and training of Hungarian higher education is the 2011 CCIV on national higher education. by law. The National Higher Education Act aims at raising the quality of higher education within the framework laid down in Article X (3) of the Fundamental Law, creating the necessary conditions for obtaining competitive knowledge and ensuring the functioning of the institutional system. On 22 December 2014, the Government adopted the Higher Education Strategy, the document "The Change of Degrees in Higher Education." The aim of the strategy is to establish and operate a higher education system, highly positioned in the international fields of education and research, which is capable of responding to societal challenges and which determines Hungary's economic success. In order to achieve these ambitious goals, everything is given in Hungarian higher education. Therefore, the task of the next decade is to use our strengths, opportunities, resources and existing experience to create the region's finest higher education system, focusing on performance, high quality, competitive knowledge and the joint success of teachers and students. The Higher Education Strategy is a 15-year guidance setting out the objectives and tasks needed to develop performance-based domestic higher education. Our aim is to strengthen the relationship between higher education and the economy, where the relevance of training in the labour market has a key role to play. According to the concept, by 2030 one of the best higher education systems in Central Europe can be established in Hungary, which, in addition to being able to finance its activities through quality education and competitive training, will be adapted to both labour market expectations, social needs, demographic change and research and development and innovation processes. By this date, the strategy sets out the objectives and actions to be achieved in the fields of education excellence, research and social responsibility. The objectives of the higher education concept can be summarised in five main directions: the development of cooperation and competition within and outside the higher education system; the structure of training adapted to labour market and social expectations; world-class higher education based on academic excellence; the establishment of a university research and development and innovation background ensuring the innovation capacity of the Hungarian economy; and the establishment of an institutional system adapted to and subsequent to the objectives. Here, I would like to thank the parliamentary parties, both the governing parties and the opposition parties, for participating in their proposals not only in the meetings of the Cultural Committee, but also in other discussions. I believe that, of course, there are obviously disagreements between us, but I have interpreted the feedback so far as to be fundamentally agreed with this strategy. One element of the breakdown of this strategy is the current bill, in this context the amendment of the 2011 Higher Education Act. The substantive provisions of the amendment are as follows. Higher education carries out its core tasks through the institutional system. Under the National Higher Education Act, the primary institutions of higher education are universities and colleges, which are supplemented by a new institutional form, the university of applied sciences. This new institutional form, apart from imposing higher requirements than the college model, certainly strengthens the traditional values of Hungarian higher education in an international comparison. In order to improve the competitive position of disadvantaged regions, the communities of regions with an interest in the creation of a chance can also gain the competitive knowledge that provides them with local well-being and makes widely available, in a high quality, the knowledge that provides an adequate basis for achieving the knowledge economy. In the interests of higher education available to all, it is a new possibility that higher education institutions subject to the same maintenance can, on the basis of an agreement with the maintenance agreement, conduct training at the headquarters of another institution and after registration in connection with the operating licence. The management of the higher education institution was supplemented by the chancellors' system following the latest legislative amendment, so now the management of the institutions is based on the functioning of the rector, the Chancellor and the institution's management body, the Senate. The amendment of the National Higher Education Act, taking into account the Chancellor's detailed tasks, complements the responsibility of the Rector, clarifies his powers and otherwise describes him in accordance with the Chancellor's duties. By amending the Higher Education Act, we propose to establish a new body, the consortium, to underpin institutional strategic decisions in state higher education institutions and to support and control management activities. The consortium would be a member of the Rector and Chancellor, as well as of the three external experts who are in line with the institutional profile, otherwise not in legal relations with the institution, but in professional relations. These members are invited by the Minister for Education to seek the opinion of the determining bodies of the socio-economic environment of the higher education institution, the higher education institution concerned and the student self-government. [[19.30]] Within the framework set out in paragraph 1 of this Article, the aim was to increase the quality of higher education, to create the necessary conditions for obtaining competitive knowledge and to ensure the functioning of the institutional system even when it was established. On 22 December 2014, the Government adopted the Higher Education Strategy, the document "The Change of Degrees in Higher Education." The aim of the strategy is to establish and operate a higher education system, highly positioned in the international fields of education and research, which is capable of responding to societal challenges and which determines Hungary's economic success. In order to achieve these ambitious goals, everything is given in Hungarian higher education. Therefore, the task of the next decade is to use our strengths, opportunities, resources and existing experience to create the region's finest higher education system, focusing on performance, high quality, competitive knowledge and the joint success of teachers and students. The Higher Education Strategy is a 15-year guidance setting out the objectives and tasks needed to develop performance-based domestic higher education. Our aim is to strengthen the relationship between higher education and the economy, where the relevance of training in the labour market has a key role to play. According to the concept, by 2030 one of the best higher education systems in Central Europe can be established in Hungary, which, in addition to being able to finance its activities through quality education and competitive training, will be adapted to both labour market expectations, social needs, demographic change and research and development and innovation processes. By this date, the strategy sets out the objectives and actions to be achieved in the fields of education excellence, research and social responsibility. The objectives of the higher education concept can be summarised in five main directions: the development of cooperation and competition within and outside the higher education system; the structure of training adapted to labour market and social expectations; world-class higher education based on academic excellence; the establishment of a university research and development and innovation background ensuring the innovation capacity of the Hungarian economy; and the establishment of an institutional system adapted to and subsequent to the objectives. Here, I would like to thank the parliamentary parties, both the governing parties and the opposition parties, for participating in their proposals not only in the meetings of the Cultural Committee, but also in other discussions. I believe that, of course, there are obviously disagreements between us, but I have interpreted the feedback so far as to be fundamentally agreed with this strategy. One element of the breakdown of this strategy is the current bill, in this context the amendment of the 2011 Higher Education Act. The substantive provisions of the amendment are as follows. Higher education carries out its core tasks through the institutional system. Under the National Higher Education Act, the primary institutions of higher education are universities and colleges, which are supplemented by a new institutional form, the university of applied sciences. This new institutional form, apart from imposing higher requirements than the college model, certainly strengthens the traditional values of Hungarian higher education in an international comparison. In order to improve the competitive position of disadvantaged regions, the communities of regions with an interest in the creation of a chance can also gain the competitive knowledge that provides them with local well-being and makes widely available, in a high quality, the knowledge that provides an adequate basis for achieving the knowledge economy. In the interests of higher education available to all, it is a new possibility that higher education institutions subject to the same maintenance can, on the basis of an agreement with the maintenance agreement, conduct training at the headquarters of another institution and after registration in connection with the operating licence. The management of the higher education institution was supplemented by the chancellors' system following the latest legislative amendment, so now the management of the institutions is based on the functioning of the rector, the Chancellor and the institution's management body, the Senate. The amendment of the National Higher Education Act, taking into account the Chancellor's detailed tasks, complements the responsibility of the Rector, clarifies his powers and otherwise describes him in accordance with the Chancellor's duties. By amending the Higher Education Act, we propose to establish a new body, the consortium, to underpin institutional strategic decisions in state higher education institutions and to support and control management activities. The consortium would be a member of the Rector and Chancellor, as well as of the three external experts who are in line with the institutional profile, otherwise not in legal relations with the institution, but in professional relations. These members are invited by the Minister for Education to seek the opinion of the determining bodies of the socio-economic environment of the higher education institution, the higher education institution concerned and the student self-government. 19.30) The amendment, in parallel with the regulation of the new body, differentiates the powers of those involved in the management of the higher education institution: while the Chancellor also exercises the right to agree on certain issues within the competence of the Senate, he would not have the legal power to do so on matters falling within the competence of the consulate. The consortium should also agree on the adoption of the medium-term institutional development plan, the R &amp; D innovation strategy, the institutional budget and the budgetary report, as well as the definition of the institution's asset management plan, the establishment of an economic entity and the acquisition of participation in it. Education has a key role to play in helping the functioning of the economic system and in promoting and ensuring growth in the economy. The dual form of training is specific practice-oriented higher education training with cooperation between higher education and economic operators. Training time related to the exercise of professional competences raises issues that promote dual training in higher education and the introduction of practice-oriented training, such as the employment of the practitioners in the profession of teacher and the extension of dual training to the training of the social worker. The career and salary system related to the Master's Teacher as a new job will be part of the public employment system. The application of the master's instructor is subject to the master's degree, as well as at least ten years of professional and practical work experience. The primary task of the Master Instructor is to train students in practice, of course not excluding theoretical training, thus increasing the possibility of obtaining students' knowledge of companies and professions. The proposal provides for a number of issues concerning instructors. On the one hand, it proposes how many hours of full-time, i.e. 40 hours a week, should be spent in some teaching posts to prepare students for a lecture, seminar, practice, consultation, i.e. the minimum amount of time spent on teaching and teaching. This minimum can be increased by up to 40 per cent or reduced by 25 per cent for a certain period of time. At least 20 percent of the instructor's working time shall be used for the continuation of scientific research or artistic or sporting activities. The amendment allows you to participate in education and to perform teaching tasks without any further legal relationship, up to 20 percent of your total working time as a scientific researcher. The proposal states that the conditions of employment in college and university assistant students, which have so far been subject to a specific requirement, are the same, and requires the acquisition of a doctoral degree as a uniform condition for the application of an adjutant position. The proposal also states that it is necessary for the employer to carry out a review of the requirements for employment at least every five years, thereby ensuring quality education and training. The Nftv. According to Nftv, the Labour Code and, as regards the State Higher Education Institution, the Law on the Status of Civil Employees apply with the derogations set out in Nftv. Under the new employment rule for projects, the higher education institution may also receive a third-country instructor on the basis of an amendment to the recognition law. In line with the educational policy goal of Hungarians across borders, the instructor can perform his/her job tasks in a foreign-based higher education institution with the consent of the higher education institution which employs him/her for a period of up to five years within the framework of a higher education cooperation programme. Among the rules concerning students, it should be pointed out that there is an increase in the reclassification requirement between state scholarship-supported training and self-cost training. The proposal sets the number of credits to be collected at 20 credits instead of the previous 15 credits, and obviously provides for a study average established in the institutional organisational and operational regulations, as defined in the Government Decree, on an average of two semesters and as an additional condition. The aim of the amendment is to give self-cost students with outstanding results a better chance of getting into the state scholarship-supported training form, as well as students who may not take the training to such an extent as to give them a signal that before they reach the number of their funded semesters, they should already be aware that they can be excluded from the state scholarship. However, the regulatory proposal takes into account public scholarship students who participate in the Erasmus programme and are therefore unable to deliver the required amount of credit due to their studies abroad. This semester is ignored by the bill, so it is necessary to obtain the required amount of credit on the average of two semesters completed at home. Higher education's sectoral management tasks are carried out by the Minister responsible for education, whose new role in the organisation of higher education is to require student competence measurement and its task in the field of higher education development is to create professional conditions for national student competence measurement. Knowledge measurement is one of the tools for students who have entered the higher education institution and some of their skills are incomplete, for students and the institution to learn about this, and the institution will help these students in this sense, so that they can obtain the absolutorium and later the degree will be given special support. Students are also supported by a measure to integrate foreign language learning requirements into higher education. On the basis of the proposal, students may take up a non-Hungarian subject, which the institution needs to provide, in addition to the total credits required for the course, up to 10 per cent of it. The national representation of the students is provided by the National Conference of Students' Local Governments, while in higher education institutions the institutional student self-government is represented. On the basis of the proposal of the Nftv. amendment, the term of office of officials could be limited by law to a maximum of four years, but in both functions four to four years, so they do not need to be counted, so they can be HÖOK for four years or be a HÖK representative for four years. In the case of the acting manager, a conflict of interest rule is also laid down, according to which a local government official cannot be a government official who carries out executive duties, supervisory board membership or audit functions in an institutional company. It is also a new element that, on the basis of the proposal, the institutional organisational and operational regulations would be part of the regulation on student and other events organised using the official name of the institution. A new provision in this area is that respect for the human dignity of the staff and students of the institution and the traditions of the institution appears as an obligation for students and students who have been recruited but have not yet been enrolled. The provisions on registration tasks and procedures related to the operation of the higher education institution are supplemented by the fact that, in the event of the start of a master's course, the authority responsible for the establishment of a doctoral school, in the same way, may not take a decision other than that of the expert opinion of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee for Higher Education. According to the new provision, the institution initiating higher education may also invite other organisations operating as full members of the European Association for Quality Assurance in Higher Education, ENQA, instead of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee for Higher Education, in the establishment of doctoral schools and in the procedure for the launch of basic and master education and higher education courses, and accept this as an expert opinion by the Authority. On 20 November 2013, the Council of Europe and the European Parliament adopted Directive 2013/55/EU on administrative cooperation within the framework of the Professional Qualifications Directive and the Internal Market Information System 1o24/2012. amending Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. The reform of the Directive aims at facilitating the movement of workers within the European Union. The amended Directive should be transposed into national law by the Member States by 18 January 2016. The primary instrument for implementation is the amendment of Act C of 2001 on the recognition of foreign certificates and diplomas. Out of the three parts of the recognition law - recognition for further education, recognition of diplomas in third countries, EU recognition - the amendment concerns recognition under Part Three, i.e. under EU law. The bill proposes the Hungarian regulation of the issues covered by the directive and the amendment of the existing legislation. The purpose of the amendment of the Act on the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is to fix the mandatory registration and publicity of scientific publications in the national scientific bibliographic database. The presentation contains the data of the scientific publications that the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has created and published in the framework of their legal relationship, as well as the data of the scientific works published by persons receiving grants under a contract to write and establish a scientific work from budgetary sources, on the basis of a separate agreement managed by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, with the participation of Hungarian higher education institutions. The database will also be able to receive data on scientific works that are intended to be published voluntarily. I think that, very briefly at this late hour, I will return to the other details in the answers and in the summary. I would like to thank the Members and gentlemen for their proposals for the higher education strategy and for one of its implementations, the law, and to ask for its adoption. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. László Pósán applauds.]]
u2015-06-12-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr László Pósán. Here you go. [[19.40]]
u2015-06-12-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As the title of the submitted draft law shows, it is not an amendment of a professional law, but a number of laws that are in some way related to higher education are being laid down here; such may be the law on the status of civil servants, the law on the Academy, the law on national higher education, so these are all areas of law which, in some way, bear the modification of the current legislation. As Mr Secretary of State has said, a strategy that may have a relatively broad consensus behind it is now witnessing a move along such a strategy by presenting this amending proposal. One of the most important elements of this strategy is how and how the relationship between higher education and the economy can be strengthened; and this is closely linked to the ability of higher education institutions to come up with marketable degrees, and the labour market matching of training should be in order. In doing so, they also want to involve practitioners in higher education; that particular master educator, which was the subject of the Secretary of State, serves this purpose. I can agree with that. In fact, I would like to point out that this is a promising first step for the future, because in many areas it would be worth moving along similar logic. I have said this several times before, and now I repeat: in the case of teacher training, the fact in itself that we have increased the proportion of practical time does not solve the quality improvement of teacher training. There, too, greater emphasis should be placed on increasing the weight of the practical element led by leading teachers, in addition to the theoretical knowledge of academic education. Or let me mention another area: in the field of medical training, those who are really serious professionals who can actually perform outstandingly in healing activities may not be actually taking part in theoretical education. However, they will become indispensable for the best understanding of the daily routine, so in this respect it would also be worth carrying out the far-reaching and very difficult task of clearly separating educational and healing activities, their time frame, their financial dimension, and so on. But in any case, I consider the introduction of a master teacher along this logic to be a first and promising step. I agree that in terms of scientific quality in higher education institutions, some piles are beaten down by this law. One of these is that if a person is unable to obtain a scientific degree after 10 years, he should no longer be employed as an instructor. I think that is the minimum, and I can fully agree with that; as well as by standardising that the condition for applying in all institutions in adjutant positions is to be interpreted in accordance with a certain uniform standard. I think it's right and right. Several points of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences Act, which emerge here, are obviously to be supported, but at the same time I would feel the need for some clarification on my part, namely concerning MTMT. At first glance, the Lake of Hungarian Scientific Works is a promising, good initiative, a centrally created database, which can be compared, contains a lot of information. It wouldn't be a problem on its own. The problem is that in relation to MTMT, there have been excuses, not only from the external perspective, but also from the various classes of the Academy, in Hungarian, in different fields of science; many problems arise from the social sciences or from the natural sciences. This type of uniformed system may not be able to satisfy all needs. Not to mention that in many cases we hear that it is not working with equal partners, so I made an amendment to this; then whether it will be a solution or not, I obviously do not know. In any case, it would be worth bearing in mind an important principle here, namely that higher education institutions are in a kind of competitive position in both the domestic and international markets for education and research, and there is no doubt that coordination of central surveying and benchmarking is necessary, but it is also essential for universities to be able to represent their individuality in some way, to show what is different and better than others. It would therefore be necessary to have an MTMT which, as a national system ensuring comparability, is able to give space to the individual endeavours of each institution. It's not there right now. It is of particular importance to develop multi-protocol cooperation between institutional solutions and the central database, as institutional systems are already in place. They work because they were created much earlier at the level of the institutions, simply because without this, Hungarian universities would not have been able to participate in major international cooperation and research projects. At the same time, there is another problem that there is no consistency between the requirement of the Hungarian Doctoral Council and the requirement of MTMT, these requirements are currently different. If you just look at the register of the Hungarian Doctoral Council for scientific works or MTMT, you can see that there are differences between the two. The database of doctoral thesis and their thesis is equally accessible by everyone, which in itself is commendable. The problem is that only the so-called DOI identifier is required by the current Higher Education Act. It would be more appropriate not only to adopt one, but also several permanent identifiers in line with international practice, because in many places, in many institutions, making the designation mandatory is an unnecessary restriction because it forces the institutions to double pay and administration in universities where they use built-in software with a permanent identifier. We agree and support the inclusion of specific labour law provisions relating to research sites in the law. In the case of fixed-term support teams, the fact that a fixed-term legal obligation can be established once for a maximum of 3 years is, I think, correct and should be supported. It is the amendment of the law itself; relatively little has been said about it. I do not want to put a lot of words into this either, but let us add that the backbone, the majority of which is the transposition of the EU directives aimed at facilitating the movement of workers within the EU into national law is, in essence, the recognition of foreign certificates and diplomas. In this context, there is an intention to set up a mechanism which is a kind of alert mechanism, namely that Member States should notify each other when a professional is no longer allowed to pursue his or her profession because of disciplinary or criminal sanctions imposed on him or her. This is essentially used to eliminate abuse and fraud. I particularly welcome this. As a virtue of the bill, I can also mention that it defines and clarifies the criteria according to which individual higher education institutions are entitled to continue training or recognition of qualifications, in Hungarian it defines what the university is, what the university of applied sciences is, what the college is, the community college is, because if we look back in these areas for the past 15-20 years, it has been quite a mess: university or not; who gives this title, who does not give this title; when one or another institution can be regarded as such. From this point of view, I believe that the criteria contained in the draft or amendment of the law are acceptable and sound. In relation to the university of applied sciences, where dual training and corporate relations are also strongly emerging, but not only to this, but obviously in general, it would be important to distinguish between higher education institutions so that research and development from budgetary sources, or research and development with the involvement of corporate orders or market resources, is not combined through two separate, clearly separate accounting and registration systems. [[19.50]] This, in turn, will help to provide institutions with greater leeway for corporate, market-side R &amp; D, which is essential from a professional point of view. The question of the consulate was mentioned by the Secretary of State. On the one hand, the consortium would be a very important new institution for the higher education system, and I consider this to be a good one, but transparency and auditability consider certain guarantees to be necessary. Consequently, I would like to propose or propose, in an amending proposal, that, in the case of the consortium, the list of members proposed be published, their CVs, so that it is possible to know what considerations might have been involved in the delegation of certain persons here and there, and, of course, at the same time, what the various opinionaries have said and what they have done in this respect. I think that the legislation on the functioning of student self-governments is very good; it might not have hurt much sooner if there had been such legislation in the Higher Education Act. So far, I apologize for the expression, in many cases, there were clearly completely different prospects for the careers of those who settled into almost eternal HÖK membership before these new rules. I believe that this regulation will indeed lead to the functioning of student representatives in the direction that they will really work along the lines of student interests. Regarding the issue of credit for student reclassification, the proposal refers to 20 credits. By the way, this seems to be a good proposal at first sight, since it moves specifically towards quality and performance, but it is not always realistic, because there are subjects, there are professions where the value of credit for certain objects is far more than for another. Let's just say we're talking about big-weight, multi-credit items, a lot of things can be mentioned from medical and legal education. In such a case, if something goes wrong with such an object, then it is true that a person loses far more credit than he would have wanted, and in the absence of it, because in many cases it is interrelated objects, he is not able to deliver the right amount of credit in the next semester, so I also submitted two modifications in this respect. I'll probably withdraw the first one because it's too professional, and an average mortal on Earth won't understand any of this. This would have been the case, in particular, to record 60 per cent of the sample plans. Now, I asked some students at the university if they knew what it was, they had no idea, so I realized it would be impossible. I recommend the 18-credit version, which is a shift compared to the 15 that we have now, but at the same time it is more realistic for us to be able to achieve it, because it is good to calculate a little with numbers. The credit value of each semester, if you take into account the training periods set by the institutions, may vary by up to three credits from the present 30, so there is room for manoeuvre between 27 and 33. That's what I got 18 for. I hope that this value will prove to be eligible. I have said my personal opinion several times, if you will allow me, I will repeat it now. I understand the logic of student competence measurement, and it looks good. At the same time, my view is that this entails more administrative and other tasks for higher education than making a bigger filter on the input side. And there's a very simple way of doing that, it's called having the right of admission at the relevant institutions, and it's up to them to decide who they're letting in. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-12-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament, is the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2015-06-12-157	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I think that we should really try to have a professional conversation in such a narrow professional context, and that when the room is full, it is worth fighting battles of a political nature. I would also like to make such critical considerations and certain proposals in my speech. First of all, it is necessary to examine why the Higher Education Act, the National Higher Education Act, should be amended. I think there are three reasons for this, and it must be said that the 2011 law, which, in addition to a number of professional and opposition criticisms, has been adopted by the majority in this House, is a very weak professional work. It could be understood and felt that if Hungarian higher education will be governed by that law, it will be necessary to make a fundamental amendment to this. Unfortunately, I have to say that three years, two years in higher education in Hungary, have fallen victim to this professionally very difficult, and I would be able to put a number of political indications on it, but I must say that it is a truly weak professional work. The other reason why we need to talk about the need to amend the law is that we should argue with each other, the withdrawal that you have made since 2011 with the support of the Hungarian higher education. I continue to say that the extent of this is the message of the Hungarian higher education, not only that it has resulted in maintaining the quality of higher education, but also that it has resulted in deterioration. State aid moves at the critical level when the basic tasks are threatened; and the issue of external revenue, which is usually the case, is not relevant if we are talking about Hungarian higher education, only when we are talking about certain institutions. So it is not possible to compare the possibilities of the Eötvös Loránd University and the Budapest University of Technology, precisely due to science. Well, obviously, I wouldn't really like to spend the time that the possibilities of technical sciences and the Budapest University of Technology for external revenue are many times greater than those of Eötvös Loránd University. But I'm not talking about the two universities, I'm talking about the two sciences, the field of science. The third issue, which is why the Higher Education Act needs to be amended, is not in question that changes are necessary in order to improve the quality of Hungarian higher education, and that is already a step forward from 2011 to the fact that a strategy has been prepared first, and then the proposal for an amendment of the law. Because there I saw that the text of the law was written first, and then they began to think about the characteristics of Hungarian higher education. However, the messages made by the government show a very strong strengthening of ownership of the state. This has been the case in the past, and at the time we debated the introduction of the Chancellor system and the emergence of chancellors, which is undoubtedly an internationally discussionable subject. However, the fact that the rector and the chancellor with the slashed powers are there, and now another body, the consistorium, is entering this system is not clear in the law. I see a lot of conflict opportunities here. Some that may not always be regulated by a paragraph. [[20.00]] It is quite simply because of the existence of the university, in part, education, in part in research, there is already a number of competent institutions, persons, whose joint appearance and operation, I think, will result in opaque things. Now I do not want to shed light on certain situations when the Chancellor and the Rector disagree what situations have emerged, not the story or storytelling, but I fear that the Rector, the Chancellor and the Consistor together provide a great deal of friction in their activities for both the individual institutions and the Hungarian higher education. In any case, the direction that has led to the reduction of autonomy, the reduction of institutional opportunities and the increase of public engagement, in laws and aspirations, is quite obvious; in this, I see absolutely no guarantee that the quality of Hungarian higher education will increase, and I see that the government's influence and involvement in various everyday matters will increase. I do not see at all the guaranteed success of why an institution's life, the day-to-day functioning of higher education and its longer-term ideas would be better seen by a body or person appointed by a government than the institution itself. Of course, autonomy in higher education is largely the freedom of research and education, but there is something else in autonomy. In autonomy, science and research, education have the ability to conduct themselves in an appropriate way. I have read the SAO's report on Hungarian higher education thoroughly, which was also available at committee meetings. These are, in fact, as the SAO says, but my opinion will not change in that I am still an author of autonomy, and I do not see at all that the government, the government's intervention, the expansion of its margin of movement, and the reduction of autonomy, are leading to higher standards. I do not see this connection, and I must say that I would not be very surprised here if there were no positive experiences on this matter anymore. Some of the issues that are going on in the details of the bill: this is the dual form of training that is currently taking place on higher education - so I am not talking about public education or vocational training - in this I will not, and I do not want to, judge in advance. Let's take a look. I see international examples, some where it works, some where it is. I sincerely hope that we have managed to do this here, but it is in our mutual interest that the quality of higher education in Hungary should be increased, and it should be said that dual training is not feasible throughout higher education. Not if it is written down either by strategy or by law, but it is worth stating in a professional, narrow, internal conversation here in front of the National Assembly that there are areas of science, there are disciplines where dual training will never be possible, as well as areas where it can produce results, but it is generally not worth talking about the relationship between higher education and dual education. I would like to bring in here an issue which was not included in the strategy, which is not in the law, and I consider it a living problem, so I tabled an amendment on this. The reason for this is simply that the Higher Education Act has been opened and, consequently, the various issues in the field of higher education should be included. There are 52 thousand adult Hungarian citizens who have completed their university studies with an absolutorium and state exam and do not receive their diploma without a language exam. The fact of this is well known, this Hungarian policy rolls before it year after year, and a so-called graduation rescue programme has also been launched. Let's face it, this has failed. The proportions are well known for how many former students won their degrees. Percentages show that the program failed. If we stop here, we are far ahead because politics and the profession have to think somehow. These people have completed their studies, didn't actually get a language exam, as I see it, so, in this form, they won't. I suggest that a truly professionally bold step be taken to declare amnesty in politics by registering in their degrees without a language exam. If they get the language exam within two years, they will receive a full degree, and we will see if the labour market accepts them and accepts them, but in any case the argument that we would reduce the value of the diploma will not be accepted, that is not the case, because they will not receive the same degree. However, the fact that 50,000 people have not been able to solve their problems for many years is particularly luxurious, and they simply cannot integrate their professional knowledge into the Hungarian labour market. I suggest that we discuss this. If the graduation program had been successful, there wouldn't have been any need for that. I recall that, at the time when the national law on public education and the national law on higher education were being debated, this issue came up four to five years ago in relation to night-going amendments, but more and more of them have been unsolved. I think that there must be some solution to this, and such a proposal has been formulated in my amendment. I have to say, while it is no secret in any way, because the actors are partly the same as they were a few days ago, but it must be mentioned that it is more than strange and professionally unacceptable that we are here about higher education in the Hungarian Parliament at the debate of decision-makers, and then there is a university in Hungary, which is not or is not the case, because a few days ago, on Tuesday evenings, we talked about that university in a similar circle, because that university is different. As there was no representative of the Ministry responsible for education at the time - parentheses, in the same case I might not have come either - and now the Prime Minister's Office is not present, which has tabled the law, law or amendment of the law on this particular university, the National University of Public Service. I think it's a terrible precedent, it's amazing. Someday there will be another government, and what if it also invents a different kind of university, and not this national public service, but they will have the art history at the heart of their thinking and give it a privilege. This is simply not possible, and I must say that, as a Member of Parliament who knows higher education better than average, I consider it a particularly bad direction, not simply a political scandal, a particularly bad direction. Overall, I must say that the strategy that has been published has, in addition to all our criticisms, advanced the issue and possibility of Hungarian higher education. The bill that is in front of us is suitable for debate, but in this debate, I and we will express our kind of thinking that is clearly on the side of autonomy and not on the side of strengthening public engagement. [[20.10]] At the same time, higher education must be more linked to public education, because I see that both large systems, like wheels, are spinning, but the relationship between them is not regularly regulated. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-06-12-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Head speaker for the Jobbik Group, Mrs Dóra Dúró. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-12-159	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, When it comes to 1. I read the article in the law, and I was very pleased, because I thought that if the category of the master instructor was introduced, perhaps the career model would also be regulated. When I read the budget law, looked through the parts of education and culture and saw this amendment, I was disappointed to see that six years of Viktor Orbán's governance would not take place in higher education. I am starting with this because I think it is one of the most serious problems for the future, but there are, unfortunately, huge shortcomings in this area already in the present. A university assistant with a PhD degree starts with a net monthly salary of 114 thousand forints. So for the best people, this is what higher education can offer, at least on paper, and an assistant's salary, his monthly salary does not reach the average wage in Hungary. It is twenty thousand people who work under these conditions who begin their careers in higher education under these conditions. I believe that the appreciation and financial progress of these 20,000 people would not be a huge burden for the central budget. This is a clear decision, it is clearly a political decision. As the 2016 budget does not include any progress in this respect, this increase will not start as of September 2016, so it can be seen that at least six years will have to wait. It is possible that it will start in 2017, as it will be the last year ahead of the elections, and such considerations may, of course, be behind the introduction of this. At the same time, it is important to see that this sector is severely affected by emigration, and the level of young, highly skilled, among the best, is very high, and is constantly rising compared to previous governments. This issue is linked to the issue of funding the entire higher education and it is important to stop, I think, when the Chancellor system was introduced a year ago, and now the constellation system will be introduced by this amendment. The fundamental issue that I think we need to ask is that in the last five years, but we can talk about the last 25 years, the primary problem, where the system needs to be grasped, is the waste side, or the side of public engagement, the continuing decline in public funding. When the Orbán government took over the government in 2010, there was HUF 180 billion of state aid for universities and colleges in the budget, next year HUF 153 billion in the same line. This is an extremely large withdrawal of funds, so I think that, in particular, in relation to the financing of higher education - otherwise in parentheses, not reducing the severity of waste, not reducing the importance of the shortcomings - this is the first thing we should face. This is linked to the phenomenon in higher education, which clearly also contributes to the irregularities identified by the SAO during the investigation - and unfortunately not only for higher education, but also for the whole education sector, for public education - that they are forced to treat applications as a regular source; because there is so much lack of state funding that they complement funding with tenders to a level that allows universities to manage and operate at all. I consider the introduction of a consistorium to be one of the most significant changes in the paragraphs of the amendment to the law, so allow me to dwell on the appearance of this institution in my speech as a lead speaker. Perhaps we should start with the chancellorship, because then we will see that a body will be set up for virtually a similar function a year after the chancellor system has been introduced. I think that it is worth summing up the experience of the Chancellor, it is worth seeing what conflicts, what difficulties have been encountered in this regard, and it is worth considering at systemic level what is the main problem with the Chancellor's system. I think the biggest problem at systemic level is that it depends on the person how the institution works. I could compare this politically to the fact that the dictator is a good man or a bad man. It is not that some chancellors are considered to be a bad person, but in my conversations with the rectors, I am also convinced that there is a good chancellor system, where it works with little conflict and effectiveness, where a person who has known higher education, whether the institution or another institution, has come from within, knows the nature and logic of the whole system. In such a case, a rector, whom he continues to do, quite rightly, is expected to go through a certain level of career with regard to academic barriers and scientific degrees of universities, and the Chancellor is not required to do so. There was no criterion for the chancellor to connect to higher education in any way. I believe that this is a problem, and based on the experience so far, I have been strengthened in this conviction. At the same time, the Chancellor had at least some sort of requirement in the law, and at least he had some responsibility. We don't know anything about the consistorium members in the law. Nothing at all! And one thing that was most important, it seems to the government that they are responsible to the minister, will be the minister's seated men. But who they are, what criteria they have to meet, what they know, what they're gonna do, it's not in this law at all. This is an extremely important signal, I think, even if you want to make a regulation about them. The fact that the consistorium is constructed by the rector and, by the way, by four people planted by the government, is of concern, so we initiated in amendments that the role of the rector should be strengthened with regard to the consistorium. It is not clear to us, as we have seen in the Chancellors, what expectations are being made of the consistors. I have also experienced that the Chancellors are not prepared for the work they are doing, and there are no clear and well-known criteria that they must fulfil. Of course, it can be said that the institution should operate economically more effectively, only what economically effective operation means. When is a chancellor good? If you are able to deliver results in the short term, or if you are thinking long - term, and even if short - term goals are sacrificed on the altar of long - term operation? It is not expected, I believe, that it is not expected, either, from the consistors, to make a substantial change in the financing of higher education, in the economic situation, if adequate funding is not available by the State. We have also read in the strategy that direct State aid cannot be significantly increased in the coming decades. I believe that if this approach prevails in higher education, then there can be chancellor, a consistorium, a substantial rise in standards, for what I have already said. I try to avoid political considerations, too, but I have played with the idea of who will be able to sit in the consultative bodies in terms of government policy so far. I've been thinking about a lot of names. [[20.20]] At the same time, I would like to highlight one more aspect of their professional work. This is that they will not have legal relations with the university and will not receive remuneration for their work. It's the minister they're practically going to keep in touch with. Thus, the question arises as to how much the interests of the institution will be pursued and taken into account, or how much they will enforce the will of the minister, to whom they are otherwise responsible, and how seriously they will take their work without remuneration. Mr Secretary of State mentioned in one of his interviews that they would like to put people in these bodies who have already proved, advanced and gained experience in the corporate sphere. This alone would not be a problem, only if these executives kept their position in the company and expected them to do a quasi-free job, there is a fear that this free work will be taken less seriously, and less conscientiously, they will also care for the lives of otherwise public higher education institutions. We therefore reject the establishment of a consortium in this form. The next subject I would like to address is names, but I think it is extremely important that I talk about them. I don't want to ride on words, but I feel just as unfortunate about names and renamings as in the case of vocational training. A new type of institution appeared there, which so far has been defined and used by a lot of institutions as a school-educated high school. The term "University of Applied Sciences" appears here. I understand from the wording of the law what they want you to understand, but by applied science, you might also understand that they will teach applied mathematics and applied linguistics here. It is obvious to me that this is not the case, but I do not consider this name to be a good name, and I consider it a foreigner from the Hungarian language to be called this type of institution. The name of the Community Centre for Higher Education, which will ultimately be the name of the community college according to the text of the law and the like, I also consider this to be wrong, because it has not been clear in terms of community college, even for professionals working in higher education, what this institution will cover, what makes it a community. Many associate with the folk college with this community term, so I do not consider the adaptation of this term to be fortunate. At the same time, I consider the institution itself, the idea and the effort to be extremely important. I believe that this is one of the most important steps forward in the law, that this opportunity will be opened, for example, for cities such as Ozd. Allow me, as a better Member, to say a few words about a city whose mayor has also won his mandate in the colours of Jobbik. This is Dávid Janiczak, who is placing an extremely high emphasis on the development and future of the city in order to start a full - time higher education in Ozd. Mr. Mayor has started this work, there is a conscious planning going on in the city, he has already started negotiations with the parents of the seventh grade primary school students, their information, and it would be a great step forward in this area if the day-care training in the form of a community college actually started. I would also like to ask for the support of Mr Secretary of State, since many people in that region do not even have access or access to the University of Miskolc in the absence of financial opportunities. Overall, I can say that in terms of farming, I do not expect progress from the establishment of consistors, but there are a number of doubts that we cannot support in this form. I would also like to draw the attention of the Secretary of State once again to the lack of a career model. This is an extremely urgent issue, which is a vital issue not only for higher education but also for the future of Hungary as a whole, to prevent, slow down migration, and even to launch the opposite process in higher education. I would ask the Secretary of State to take account of what has been said. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-12-160	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr István Ikotity, who is speaking on the stand. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-161	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Hungary has once again missed an opportunity. We missed opening the way to catching up. Hungary is still not on the path of catching up, modernising, successful states. We strongly believe that the conditions for social and economic convergence can be created primarily through higher education. The higher education policy of the Fidesz-KDNP government is not the 21st. It deals with the challenges of the century, but is based on industrial societies in the seventies and eighties. But the age of industrial societies has expired, and now everyone is building a knowledge-based economy, a creative society. The package of amendments we are discussing now consists essentially of two main parts. On the one hand, certain EU directives and provisions are transposed into Hungarian law and, on the other hand, the elements resulting from the higher education strategy are introduced into the Higher Education Act. However, this part is disappointing even in relation to the higher education strategy, since it hardly receives any of its positive elements. At the end of last year, the LMP received the higher education strategy, which was also adopted by the government, with mixed emotions. There were undoubtedly positive elements, such as its ambitious goals, or its emphasis on the role of innovation in education, and its commitment to maintaining and even strengthening higher education in rural areas. Unfortunately, however, there were also negative elements that stated that the government would not spend any more on higher education, would not even the existing inequalities, or would put another body, the consortium, on the neck of universities, after the chancellors. And we can also talk about uncertain elements, because he did not say that the government wanted to see more or less universities and colleges, more or less university students, more or less graduates. It did not reveal any points of substance for these. But we acknowledged that, after relatively extensive discussions, László Palkovics put down a serious strategic material shortly after his entry into office, at all, that a strategic material would be placed on the table. Of course, every concept is only worth what they make of it. And here we have come to concrete changes. Unfortunately, the bill presented will now have little positive effect on László Palkovics's strategy, which is disappointing. Reforms can hardly be talked about, at most the usual whistling continues, pushing with a very negative element, including the consistoriums. Let's look at the minor changes first. The minimum requirements of the university as an institutional form change. This is where we meet tightening up and making it easier. They introduce the university of applied sciences as a new institutional form, but this does not fundamentally change the institutional system. It is true that its intention was rather reflected in the strategic material related to Klinghammer, the former State Secretary for Higher Education. There are also changes in the parts related to the regulation of instructors' working time, which may set out a little more realistic conditions than before, but the regulation of instructors' mandatory research time has already been too rigid. Otherwise, higher education workers still do not receive a wage increase, since 2008 the basic salary has not increased by a penny, and according to next year's budget, this will remain so in 2016. This is a huge problem, as the public salaries of teachers and researchers no longer compete with the market sector at all. The best young people go to companies, companies, or if they do want to teach and research, they move abroad, where they have a thousand applications. Besides, the resources of higher education do not change, they spend this year's money on universities and colleges next year. Continuing the line, they go on the way around the Hungarian Accreditation Committee, and the Act on the Academy of Sciences changes on several points. The expansion of dual training continues, although the details are not even known here. Dual training may be useful, but should be used with caution, it should only be started in one major if it has conditions both at the university and at the economic, social and the training centre. [[20.30]] There are areas where it may seem obvious that it should not be introduced at first sight, such as the training of social professionals, the Association for the Training of Social Professionals in Hungary recently said its position about this. Social training is also such a training that the already high number of hours, practical hours, can provide sufficient preparation, and there is no need for duplication of training. Strengthening higher education in rural areas would be a major change. For the time being, it can only be seen from the amendment that a particular higher education institution can now operate at a Community higher education training centre or at the headquarters and premises of other higher education institutions. According to the justification, the aim is to give communities in the backward regions access to knowledge that helps them to thrive on the ground. This would be an instrument for the introduction of the Community higher education training centre model. Unfortunately, the law doesn't really tell us what this is about, we don't know how or how this is going to happen. It's a positive element, but it's undeveloped, who knows what it's gonna be. Once again, the powers of the rector and chancellor are being retrieved, but the real negative element is not this, but the appearance of the consistors - this is the most important and at the same time the most serious flaw in the package of amendments. A new body will be placed on the neck of universities which can exercise veto rights in virtually all economic, financial and financial matters, because the consensus of the consortium is necessary for the validity of decisions of the Senate with economic consequences. These include the establishment plan, the R &amp; D and innovation strategy, the adoption of the budget, the annual accounts or the asset management plan, or the establishment or acquisition of a holding organisation. There is therefore no independent decision of the university on economic matters. This is the end of a process. The rector, the Chancellor appointed from above, is a member of the five-person consistors, but the minister also determines the identity of the three other delegates. With the emergence of the new players, conflict situations can be covered, as there can now be conflicts and tensions not only between the Senate or the Rector or the Chancellor, but also within the triangle defined by the Senate, Rector, Chancellor and the consistorial delegates. According to the LMP, it is a serious mistake to keep universities on such a short leash, showing their maintenance intentions in such a direct way. This was also a serious mistake at the time, because when Bálint Magyar set up economic advice in 2005, or ten years ago, Zoltán Pokorni, former Minister of Education at Fidesz, President of the Education Committee in the previous cycle, still vice-president of Fidesz - and I will now quote literally from the minutes of the parliamentary debate - it is difficult to decide whether this institution will be the hairy foot of government and politics in the cool halls of science. Since then, Fideszes MEP László Pósán also commented on the debate at that time, including the fact that Bálint Magyar wants to abolish institutional autonomy and set up a governing body with a weak legitimacy that is not responsible for anyone. He also added that it is more likely that Hungarian Bálint's mediocre moonyard and party soldiers will be involved. The fact is that we agree perfectly with the statements made by Zoltán Pokorni and László Pósán in 2005, but as the MSZP-SZDSZ government sends socialist cadres, so the Fidesz-KDNP government would now send orange delegates to the university - we will go from Ceber to Veder. The LMP represents that if the Ministry of Maintenance wants to exercise influence, it should be done through jointly agreed objectives, guidelines, partnership and common thinking, with proper mentoring and professional assistance, not only one but all stakeholders' opinions should be heard. The Educational Network has also recently expressed its views on the changes, and they have also discussed the same issues among others. There is a need to find a way to channel as much interest as possible into the decision-making of universities. The problem is not that the economic interest is revealed, the problem is that a kind of interest becomes exclusive. What we are seeing now is that the government is once again sleeping with a stronger economic group, and after vocational training, higher education is also being served to the Chamber of Industry. The current higher education amendment benefits a large entrepreneurial interest, not the interests of the entire Hungarian society. The LMP represents a higher education that not only looks at the needs of a narrow economic interest, but also at the needs of the current labour market. We do not regard higher education as a direct provider of the labour market, but as a strategic sector that takes into account the broad needs of society and the economy. It is about the fact that the world has changed enormously over the last two or three decades, and employers themselves claim that they cannot see and plan for more than a year or two, while education is a long-term programme, which is less than 5-10-15 years in time. The labour market has immediate needs, but the university system cannot be constantly changed. CHAPTER XXI 100th-century education systems have found a solution: they need to train a wide range of prospective workers with general knowledge and strong basic skills and abilities, who, under changing circumstances in the changing world, can find their place, who adapt, learn and train themselves. In many cases specialization is no longer a matter of education, of higher education, but of the worker's own responsibility. Employees need to develop themselves, as well, out of the school board, and they can do so regularly in adult education - this is what lifelong learning is all about, which is what successful countries are all about. You can love this or not like it, but if you want to be successful, you must not look at short-term, special needs, but primarily prepare young people for long-term challenges. With a wide range of skills and skills, everyone can specialize themselves, change jobs, and train themselves. The task of education is to be able, not to be trained. In the case of vocational training, the same was said in the last amendment a few weeks ago, and the same is true there. Of course, the XXI. A century-old concept only works if a graduate does not have to be born, but can advance and continue depending on everyone's abilities and diligence, where home-to-home disadvantages do not prevent anyone, where education is of an evenly high quality at every point in the country. Higher education will be the path of social ascension for both the individual and the whole community when the injustices of public education are eliminated. Fidesz-KDNP doesn't seem to understand or want to understand this, they don't understand how today's world works. The new list came out a few days ago. From 2016, a total of 21 basic sections, including andragogy, cultural anthropology and social studies, will be discontinued, the basic stages that will provide a wide range of social knowledge that can prepare young people to stand in many places. The government wants to live up to today, not the future, and the failure to do so is a serious mistake. Fidesz would have had the power, and it would still have the power to create a modernisation higher education in the interest of the whole society, in contrast to economic interest groups. There is no part of the strategy or element in the amending package that can be considered as forward-looking if the main direction is in the wrong direction and only serves the interests of a narrow economic group. Neither competitive higher education nor a competitive society will be so in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-12-162	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak to the first independent Member. I give the floor to Congressman Szabolcs Szabó, please.
u2015-06-12-163	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Almost everyone started with the higher education strategy, and so did the speakers. I would not be too caught up in this because practically everything has been said on this subject, which we have discussed many times at committee meetings. [[20.40]] To be honest with you, I would just like to say that I am not as delighted with this strategy as Secretary of State. Undoubtedly, there is, written in Hungarian, colorful, smelly, so fine, there are good elements in it, but there are basic problems. It lacks the source page, which my fellow Member Dóra Dúró mentioned, that it is clearly written that there will be as much money in the future as it is now, it is out of the question. There is virtually no meaningful answer to what will happen to wages, what will happen to instructors' salaries. Here, because of the person sitting in this room, the majority of us who have already spoken, comes from higher education as an instructor, researcher, and we have seen that the situation is catastrophic, and if we do not change this in a very short time, then the system will fail on its own and a very serious deterioration of quality will occur. I'll get back to you on that later. And, of course, in the same way, I think that this is the kind of force of dual training that we've seen over the last year. But I'm telling you, I'd like to round it up, because right now, I'd like to talk about this amendment in detail, some of the elements of it. On the one hand, I would like to highlight a few things that I think are good, and perhaps a few minor amendments can make it even better. One of the things that many of my fellow Members have mentioned here is the introduction of a particular master educational category. It's totally fine. In our ELTE, the practical instructor as a category has already existed because of the internal rules, and it is perfectly all right not to have or not necessarily have a scientific degree, and especially at the university of applied sciences, which has now been created, it can occur in bulk or in a larger proportion. The problem I think is that what has been assigned to the master's teacher as a wage in the annex will cause wage tension, because if we look at the current master's instructor I, II. Payment category in this annex, it comes out that a person with a master's degree will earn more than an assistant who has probably been working at the university for at least 10 years, because it's taking a long time for colleagues to get their PhD in certain majors and has a scientific degree. I think it's going to cause wage tension. This has to be resolved in any way. So if you could suggest it, I'd be somewhere between the assistant teacher and the assistant assistant assistant. I'm sure it's not good to make more money than an assistant. This will only generate long-term tensions in the departments. To be honest, I do not consider the introduction of the university category of applied sciences to be a devil either. There are a few little things I think might be worth considering. Here, on the one hand, I do not think that the separation of universities and the university of applied sciences is perfect, too strict in my view, is the definition of a university category. In the case of the university of applied sciences, I think the problem is that they are required to provide dual training at a mandatory level. If I remember correctly, they must hold or start dual training in two training areas. This is strange, because when we first talked about the strategy for higher education, perhaps around October, there was a secretary of state before the committee, and I specifically asked how this dual training was planned. Then he strongly said that this was optional, if businesses went to the university because they wanted to cooperate with the universities, then there should be a legal framework to start this, and it is absolutely fine. It wasn't supposed to be general. Now they're making a general rule of this, because it's mandatory for the universities of applied sciences to have it, so there can't be any such thing as not at the university of applied sciences. From now on, I think it's too rigid a rule. It is also okay, as mentioned here by Mr Pósán and many others, that students who are still involved in undivided training in higher education and still have not obtained a final certificate must indeed be removed from the education system. Another question is what happens to the about 50,000 people István Hiller referred to who do not have a language exam. I myself am not elitist, there are many things to be accused of, but I'm not sure I am elitist; I also had a lot of disputes about this within the ELTE, but I myself do not agree with any exemption for students and students who have not passed the final exam because they do not have a language exam. I think that this can be expected of a man with a university degree to speak at least one foreign language, not a requirement of the devil. In addition, I think that, in a sense, this refers to other problems: either laziness or skills problems. I don't think that's a coincidence. So I wouldn't recommend granting you immunity in any way. It can be strengthened to improve the programmes that address this issue. Now, as far as the Chancellor and the consistorium's system is concerned, I wouldn't talk about the chancellor's system for a long time, because we've talked about this a lot. I don't think anyone can change my opinion in particular, probably even the Secretary of State. The weird thing about the current law amendment is that the chancellor will represent the university. It's weird to me. Once - it is true that only on paper, because it is no longer legally true - on paper the Rector is the number one head of the university, then the Chancellor should not represent him. So you're gonna sit down on Mondays and decide that I'm representing him today, your colleague tomorrow? It's weird to me. Economic matters should be dealt with preferably by the Chancellor, and the Rector should represent the university. Literally speaking, he is the number one leader of the law. As for the consistorial system, I already have very serious problems there. If you look at the Fundamental Law, the fact is that the university is an autonomous organisation that defines and operates the methodology and content of research, education, as well as its own organisational and operational rules for itself, and the state has the task, the possibility, the task, the task, of keeping the order of farming in line with the rules, is to check it, i.e. farming. There will now be a consortium that will interfere and it can indeed be said that it exercises veto rights, for example, to adopt the medium-term institutional development plan, the R &amp; D and innovation strategy, and to develop the content of the rector's proposal. You can say everything, but in this case, I don't think it has anything to do with it. [[Dr. László Palkovics intervenes.]] This is how I understood this amendment to the law, that they have the right to agree on these issues, and if they have the right to agree... [[Dóra Dúró: Yes, veto right.]] There's no other way to interpret it, because you don't agree with it, then the Senate... [[Dr. László Palkovics: There is nothing in the Rector's competition. The president's ringing the bell.]] Then I'll read it better.
u2015-06-12-164	Mr. Secretary, you have the opportunity to speak, and I will give it to you.
u2015-06-12-165	That is how I understood it, but you will respond, Mr Secretary, and it may turn out that you have no comment on the content of the rector's application. But for example, the R &amp; D and innovation strategy has nothing to do with the consortium, and I don't understand it. It is also possible to mention what my fellow Member Ikotity has already mentioned, that there has been an economic council as an institution before, and if I remember correctly, and to correct me, if I recall wrong, the Constitutional Court has thought of this at the time, precisely on the grounds that it violates autonomy or autonomy. So, I think there are very big problems with this consultation, and it is true, indeed, what my colleague Dóra Dúró mentioned, that there is nothing to read about, by the way, that these three people, who will be appointed to the consistorium at every university, have what connections, knowledge and information they have, what background they have. So it's actually possible to appoint people who haven't been together in their lives. [[20.50]] Of course, it looks good in the text of the law, that they're going to be asking everyone's opinion through the Rector from the FBI, but what we've seen over the last few years is that it's one thing to get someone's opinion, the question is whether anyone will take it into consideration. In general, this is less typical, at least according to our experience. Then we talked about this 20 credits/half-year limit that's going into the system right now. This is indeed, so at first glance, from an educator's point of view, it can be said that it may be too harsh. So, really, because of the build-up, if someone slips into an object and can't pick up the building objects in the next semester, it's easy to get under 20 credits on a two-month average. Maybe it's too stiff. I'd say it's worth laying down a little less strict rules. Then the bill itself lists the rules along which the recognition of certificates and diplomas will take place in the future. I'll tell you the truth, I couldn't find anything in it that was objectionable in any way. I think this is a hundred percent eligible. What is interesting about this law is that it is indeed the regulation of the application of MTMT. Here, indeed, if we ourselves have been forced to use MTMT for a long time, as a result of internal rules, it is now one thing that MTMT is not very user-friendly, but otherwise it works on its own and can be used. The problem is, indeed, that if we want to treat science geometry very homogeneously and equally in different fields of science, then there will be serious problems. I myself have been or have been engaged in social science - perhaps in the present time - and I am well aware that MTMT treats social sciences worse than natural sciences. It is therefore simply impossible to demonstrate similar or equivalent scientific performance in MTMT at the same level. Simply because disciplines have certain peculiarities that cannot be brought back perfectly into this system. It is certain to think about this, but in itself, the fact that the use of this is required by the law on this mandatory basis is something I agree with. The practical application of this will have to be corrected. It might be another thing that's so strange to me, and I just missed it when I was talking about the institution structure of the universities of applied sciences and universities, it's the introduction of a certain community college, let's call it the introduction of a category. For me, this is interesting or strange, because the way in which this is created or created with these training points under the law is not community higher education, as far as I'm concerned. This is simply a training course that is carried out in a settlement, such as Ozdon, which Dóra Dúró mentioned earlier. So let's talk about this. In fact, the community college is different, I think, and when we talked about the higher education strategy, I thought, and I think that in the text, it would have been more like, say, community higher education institutions in the sense of North America. Otherwise, that might make more sense. But it seems that the Ministry has chosen this solution technique after all. I'm assuming you can't change that now, so thank you for listening.
u2015-06-12-166	Thank you very much, Congressman. President László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, announced his intention to speak on the agenda in advance. I give you the floor, Mr President. The time frame is 15 minutes, Mr. President. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The new Fundamental Law, which was established in 2011, defines Hungary's vision not only in public law but also in public financial terms. The public financial provisions incorporated in the Fundamental Law, as well as the new Court of Auditors law adopted as the first cardinal law, have finally closed the era of control without consequences and put public financial control on a new footing in Hungary. The co-operation and the preparation of a plan for audits, which are registered in the law, now ensures that the Court's audits are fully used and contribute to increasing the regulatory, transparency and efficiency of the public financial system. All this is the result of the wise decision of the Parliament. In addition to its primary audit activities, the State Audit Office has a statutory task to support good governance and the legislative work of the Parliament with its experience. Therefore, our advisory and opinion-forming function is gradually highlighted. Our aim is to make the use of public funds more transparent and effective and to contribute to the more efficient functioning of public services institutions and systems, and to bring about positive changes in our controls and analyses that will improve the daily lives of citizens. One of the main benefits of our audits and analyses is the support of the legislative activity of the Parliament. The greatest and most lasting impact can therefore be achieved through legislation, our findings, experiences and proposals, so that the laws are as well founded as possible. In recent years, I have asked for a voice in Parliament on several occasions in order to allow the experience of the Court's audits to be incorporated into a legislation under preparation. This was the debate of the law on municipal, disaster management or competition law, all areas that directly affect the lives of all Hungarian citizens. There is still an amendment to a law that fits this line. On the last day of April this year, the State Audit Office completed a comprehensive audit of higher education laws. The actuality of our inspections and our recent study shows that the amendment of the Higher Education Act is currently on the agenda. I trust that a summary of our findings will also contribute to the knowledge of the strategic environment of higher education, the basis for legislative changes. Dear House, When designing our controls, we strive to carry out checks in areas that have not previously been or have not been fully covered by the SAO, where the legal environment has changed and there is a risk of public funds being used and public wealth management. I am convinced that higher education institutions teaching growing generations should be exemplary, exemplary organisations. It is in all social interest that these institutions operate properly, fully comply with the rules on their management, and make proper use of the public funds entrusted to them, since the students who graduated there will continue to do so when they obtained their diploma. The higher education institution is an organisation established for the pursuit of education, scientific research, artistic - or sports - creative activity as a basic activity, which has also become an organisation of a public procurement operator with increasingly significant domestic and European Union applications. This would have required renewed management, management, regulatory and control mechanisms from the institutions, to which not all state higher education institutions have been adequately adapted, according to the experience of the audit. The use of EU funds and the many and high value purchases are good news, but all of this has increased the risk of corruption in higher education institutions. [[21.00]] The annual voluntary integrity questionnaire survey carried out by the State Court of Auditors indicated that these corruption threats were increased as a sensitive instrument and that at the same time the development and operation of so-called internal control systems for the protection of individual universities and colleges did not follow the increasing threats. The regulations of higher education laws in force during the period covered by the audit provided higher education institutions with greater autonomy than any other budgetary body in the financial and asset management area, but this was not always possible for the institutions to make use of. Several universities and colleges have lost their financial balance, with budgetary supervisors and superintendents assigned to half of them. Public higher education institutions had to adapt to significant economic, social and legal changes over the five years 2009-2013. The size and composition of the number of students were influenced by changes in the number of students supported by public scholarships and the distribution of students between disciplines in line with budgetary opportunities and labour market needs. The decline and reorganization of public scholarships have affected the funding of institutions in different fields and regions. Despite the above, revenues did not decrease or even increased by 0.3 percent in real terms. However, the growth was not even, because the funding of the institutions was significantly altered, which affected the institutions differently. Following the completion of the audits evaluating the years 2009 to 2013, in the light of our reports, I can say that it was extremely justified to carry out the checks. We have detected recurring and repeated irregularities in the area of internal control systems and in the financial and asset management of the institutions. We have also seen shortcomings in the area of sectoral governance and control. These were all prescribed by law, which we have experienced as a violation. The audits of the State Audit Office did not cover the educational, scientific, artistic or sporting activities of higher education institutions. The purpose of the audit was to show how the institutions managed public money and public wealth and to make a comprehensive, so-called holistic assessment of the sector. The experience of our inspections was summarized and published in a study. We have made over 200 proposals in our reports. For most institutions, we have already started to make use of the experience of our audits, and for 22 institutions we have also made 33 proposals to the competent minister, who has also launched the planning and implementation of control measures. As a result of suspicion of irregularities detected, we also had to use a number of indications to different authorities. Dear Congresswoman, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, In addition to our proposals in the course of the audits, we sent a letter to the Ministry of Human Resources, which drew up the draft law, and we made a proposal to amend the law on national higher education to sum up our specific audit findings. We are pleased to see that some of our proposals have been used in the bill before you. Our proposal to clearly designate the person responsible for the design, operation and development of the internal control system in the legislation has been incorporated into the new law, and we have also made use of our proposal that, following the introduction of the Chancellor's institution, a change be introduced in relation to the obligation to present the budget, the report and the institutional development plan to the Senate. However, we have made further comments and suggestions, which I would now like to recommend to the honourable Members of the Parliament for consideration. This strengthens transparency and accountability in the management of taxpayers' forints. The Higher Education Act requires the maintainer to check the management of the higher education institution and the legality of its operation. However, it is not possible to carry out it without requiring the regularity of the verification. During the five years that we have checked, the management of the four maintenance institutions has not been checked at all, and the five additional institutions have been checked only once. Several years' experience tells me that where there is no regular inspection, there is a mess and a waste, so I suggest that the law requires not only control but also the frequency of it for the maintenance. According to the Higher Education Act, the maintainer evaluates the report on the annual management of the higher education institution. However, it does not impose an obligation to submit a report, which would however be a condition for the assessment, and in many cases they have been omitted. In order to develop a uniform practice and to ensure the professional basis of the assessment by the maintainer, I propose that the report on the annual management of the higher education institution be included in the documents to be sent to the maintainer. In parallel, in order to ensure consistency between the legal requirements, the right to comment on the maintenance and the obligation to communicate it should also be provided for in the annual accounts. The improvement of the performance of tasks can only be ensured if the maintenance develops the necessary quantifiable indicators and sets out an appropriate set of criteria and targets. During the inspections, we have found that no such measuring instrument has been developed, so I propose that the maintainer determine the indicators and then take action to assess the effectiveness of the professional work, the efficiency of its operation and the annual accounts of the higher education institution. Our controls in different areas have clearly pointed to an anomaly that threatens the foundation of public finance management in our country. This is a lack of cost calculation based on a uniform methodology. Although the Higher Education Act requires the institution to determine the cost of training in the institution with its maintenance approval, during our audits we found that the regulatory deficiencies in the cost calculation were a major problem for higher education institutions. I therefore propose that, in the legislative amendment, the competent minister be required to draw up a methodological guide to determine the cost of teaching activities, since without this normative funding cannot be calculated properly, since it is not possible to know how which institution calculates the costs of training a student. The SAO found that the practice of higher education institutions for accounting for the balance of appropriations generated at the end of the year was contrary to the provisions of the Public Finance Act. In their accounts, the institutions have sometimes not shown any residuals with actual commitments. In order to establish good practice in the management rules, it is appropriate for the legislation to record both the appropriations charged with the commitment and the appropriations not charged. Honourable Members, There is no question that higher education needs to be transformed. The comprehensive audit of the State Audit Office is a major reference to sound legislation. Controls not only contribute to a more regular and transparent functioning and management of the audited institutions, but they make a major contribution to the transition of a complex system, such as higher education, in the right place and in the right way. However, our institution rarely has enough human and material resources for such a comprehensive audit, covering all institutions. However, it is important that we continue to keep an eye on the higher education system so that we can filter out risky areas and check where this is most needed. That is why we propose that a provision be incorporated in the draft whereby the higher education institution is obliged to send its budget, its amendment, the annual accounts on the use of the budget, its internal audit plan, its annual audit report and its annual management declaration on the internal control system to Parliament's main audit body. In connection with this, allow me to conclude my comment with a quote from St. Benedict: "Keep order, and order will keep you. Thank you for your kind attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[21.10]]
u2015-06-12-168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President's speech opened the door to two-minute speeches, but Mr Secretary of State asked for a word and, according to the house rules, he was given priority. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-12-169	Thank you very much. I don't know what the biggest rude thing is so at 9:00 p.m., I asked for a word and I'm trying to react and I'm trying to prevent too many two-minute comments. So I'm gonna try this, and if I don't succeed, I think we're really gonna have a professional debate, because we've talked about different cases for a long time, and I wouldn't want to repeat them. As Secretary of State of the Ministry of Human Resources, I don't think I can answer the question of the only lady in our company first, so I apologize to the next gentlemen for that. Partly because of this, partly because it concerned a lot of topics that, I think, are general topics, and in the case of the others, I would not answer them afterwards. Let's start with the chancellors and the consistorium. I think that the presentation by the President, President Domokos, has given a good conclusion to this. I think that the introduction of the Chancellor's system, the Chancellor's system, has a number of opinions, and I strongly believe that we should have introduced this earlier. I graduated from university in '89 for a relatively long time, and from then on I worked at five different universities, and I taught. It started in Finland sometime in 89, and then - I don't want to anecdote, there should be no misunderstanding, just to... -, between 91-92-93 in the Netherlands, then in Canada and then in Germany. It was very unusual for me that, for the first time in Finland, there was, in fact, an economic type of activity in addition to the activities covered by professional autonomy. I, as a scholar who appeared there, did not only have to consult my head of thesis or my head of the department; if I wanted something, I had to discuss it with another person. It was unthinkable after the University of Technology, where there was no such thing, there was an economic administrator. I think that this system was introduced in Finland about the same time; I was out in the Netherlands just when the chancellor, or some kind of maintenance council, appeared in the Netherlands at the Dutch universities. This was true, by the way, both in Canada and in Germany. I think the fear that maintenance control or the appearance of maintenance in this way in the life of the institution has any negative impact on the institution, I think, is unfounded. This is partly demonstrated by the experience, and I do not think that either Finnish higher education, Dutch, German or Canadian higher education would be bad, and its quality would not have changed because, in addition to its academic function, there was a separate function on farming and other non-autonomous issues of the institution. So I think that the introduction of the Chancellor's system - obviously, like any new system, can not be appreciated very much after six months. We're gonna try, 'cause we like to get some kind of picture of it fast, that's what we're gonna do. The chancellors' preparation is ongoing. Obviously, Congresswoman spoke to rectors, she knows that chancellors regularly disappear for a day or two of various meetings. The last one was the week before last week, and the last of the kind of preparation that we invited the rectors to today, the three experts of the OECD held today a full-day workshop on this subject, namely the Chancellor's System, the . board of trustees, was a full-day workshop. Rectors were involved to a lesser extent, all the chancellors were there, so we are constantly working to understand and implement this system. So I think that the introduction of the Chancellors system has some short-term results, which are already visible today, but obviously here a short-term outcome in order for the numbers to change very quickly cannot be expected. A long-term evaluation is needed here. By the way, next week at Corvinus University, there is a conference on this point where the results of the Chancellor's system have been evaluated so far. The consistorium. I think it's very important to understand what a consistorium means. In every country where this type of system exists, the consortium takes over tasks that would otherwise be its maintenance task. As Mr President said, his maintenance function is to understand and approve the budget of the institution; to approve the annual accounts; to deal with the approval of the institution's development plan; to agree on how the institution intends to manage its properties. At the Ministry, on Szalay Street - Congressman Hiller knows this very well - there is a limited capacity and knowledge available for this. Now, this kind of maintenance task, as in every other country, we would like to delegate to the members of the consistorium, where three external experts appear outside the Rector and Chancellor. The specialist is very important here. If you look at why the operation of economic councils wasn't successful... - otherwise I still have relatively vivid memories of the first law on higher education listed by Bálint Magyar, in the area of 2005, I will perhaps tell you in a more private circle how it was changed, or what it was actually about that was about, it was not a consistorium, it was not an economic council, it was a maintenance body. Indeed, the maintenance body has veto rights. The maintenance board, after the Senate's decision, says I agree or disagree. That's not the kind of body the consistorium is. The consortium is a body that exercises the right of prior consent; it is a preliminary - it is very important that it is included in the law. Preliminary means that before the Senate decides, the options that are being presented are considered, and it says that I would agree with that, but instead you can work out something else, so it's not a veto right. It is very important to understand why it is important for the consortium to have such a right. I think that the good functioning of German universities is probably no longer necessary to open a debate. Even in the early 1970s, there may have been a debate, and today I don't think that's a question. In German universities, it is called Hochschulrat, a body that is consistent with the consistorium; well, its operation is exactly like what we described in the law from a certain point of view, with so many differences that, for some reason, in Germany, it is not necessarily governed by law, but by such a thick manual. I'd be happy to send this to everyone who hasn't seen this. There are some very important elements in this. One of the elements is that the members of the consistorium must be invited by the maintainer, because the maintenance delegation transfers different permissions to the consistorium. That's the reason. There is also the fact that if the consortium doesn't have a decision, some kind of decision, some kind of intervention power, it doesn't work well. So, as a consultant, you shouldn't run the consistorium, because they won't take it seriously. You have to look at the economic advice. When economic councils were placed in the same type of position, there was a university that immediately terminated it, such as the Budapest University of Technology. The universities that didn't end it didn't take it seriously either. Some universities, however, used the economic council as a consistorium, had no decision that they had not measured before at the economic council. And he could do that because he didn't build on the members of the economic council who were delegated by a ministry, anyone else, but on those who otherwise came from outside. The University of Szeged is a very good example of this... - he spoke to Rector Gábor Szabó, and I think he said that this is the point. The consortium was proposed by the Hungarian Rectors' Conference in this form, which is why it was included in the strategy, and that is why it was incorporated into the law. I think that to fear institutional autonomy from the members of the Hungarian Rectors Conference, that is to say, because they suggested this - there was no compulsion - I think that may not be entirely right. On the proposal of the members of the consortium: in a law, you can write down what can be described. I think that it is the fact that the members of the consortium are proposed by those stakeholders who are, by the way... - and then there is a proposal here, I think that regarding the publicity, so that the persons proposed by the proposers, their biography, and, by the way, the Minister of Education exercising his maintenance rights will choose and decide with whom he thinks the future functioning of the institution will then be measured at some level, I think that this is definitely a positive proposal, and I can fully support it on my part. I think the public was worth at least as much as a law on how to look at the profile of the consistorium members, as well as the chancellor's. So I think that fear of the consistorium is not justified, if that is what we mean in this way. What is in this handbook of the Association of Germanconsistors - which, by the way, describes how the consortium works - is a very important thing that the consortium is a very important element in the realisation of institutional autonomy, since there we can separate the institution from something that is, say, direct by the maintainer. I'd be happy to give it to everyone, and I'm gonna have to take a look at this, that's what this is about. The career model and the wage structure. Higher education has a career model. I don't really like that phrase, because I don't understand it very well. There is a career model on the teaching, research and teaching side of higher education: this is the teaching assistant, the assistant professor, the professor, the university teacher. On the research side, he is a research associate, a research associate, and a senior research fellow. I don't think we need a better career model here. What is needed, however, and I think that we absolutely agree on this, is that income relations in this structure must be resolved. At this very moment, in the momentary version of the law, the pay table is a momentary state, the law is open, and I think that we will make a proposal, and hopefully there will be a change in that. But what is important to know - and I think we agree here too - is that if we look at the income structure of the whole higher education between 2010 and 14 and I deliberately do not take 2008 as an example here, between 2010 and 14 the income per capita increased by 19 percent - not wages, wage structure, pay table has remained unchanged since 2008 - that is how much the income level has increased. The problem is actually not that. [[21.20]] You can argue that 19 percent is a good number or not a good number in four years. The problem here is that we have looked at the distribution of this, and now we have detailed data at the level of different institutions, at different categories, and this shows that income is largely dependent on the ability to assert interest within the institution, the ability to generate income. In the case of university teachers, the average income is about 40 percent higher than in the wage table, as we go down, 30 percent for the professors, and the assistant professors and fellow scientists, where we want to build on them, because they are the teachers and researchers of the future, and there it went only a few percent above them. So I think that settling this situation involves more than one thing. It includes the settlement of the pay table, and its resources should be sought in the budget available and in the institutions' own budget. We will be proposing this soon. I think we're gonna agree here, we're gonna argue about the numbers of this. About funding: Madam Congresswoman mentioned that this is not good, because how much has been withdrawn by the government over the past period. I think what President Domokos said is interesting because there is a Hungarian saying, but I wouldn't say that now, although I think there is no press, but where money should not be spent. So I think that if a system has operational anomalies, and I think that the SAO reports, but also the Kehi reports, and what we've been looking at, basically indicate operational anomalies. There's something to do with these, and they need to be fixed. I think with the chancellor's system in place, with the rectors involved in this intensively, this order has begun. I don't think it's gonna take too long. The system of higher education, I think, is a well-managed system. It was obvious that when the problem was very big, it was possible to intervene in a year and this was something to do with, but I think that soon there will be a time when we no longer have to talk about this issue, how optimal it works, how much it doesn't, and then we can really talk about financing in a different way. In addition to public direct financing, I still believe that much is involved. The maintainer not only provides resources to the higher education institution but also provides opportunities. One of the ways to create opportunities that Mr Pósán mentioned is not to force our institutions to choose bypassing solutions if they want to do research and development work. That's what's happening right now. The Aht. It is very difficult to carry out real business activities in the field of R &amp; D within its framework. The institutions do not like it; about one-and-a-half percent of the total budget is what appears here, even though it should be much higher. In the universities mentioned above, the leg that the institutions obtain not from grants, so not from projects, not from tuition revenue, but directly from this type of service is not one-and-a-half percent. In the case of U.S. universities, this is a quarter of the amount of money, also in German universities, because of the conditions. In creating these conditions, I think there is another possibility. The coming period - given the development of the Hungarian economy, especially the development of research and development, the innovation area - is certainly a period where we can live absolutely with it and learn how to do it. There was a point, and I also agree that there are differences between universities. Obviously, ELTE and the Budapest University of Technology differ from the point of view of income creation. Here, the maintainer - or the community rather, if this can be broadened - has a responsibility that the financing of basic research cannot be put on a business basis. It's typically where he's obviously at risk, we don't know if he's gonna get results, we might just be working, that's the nature of the research. Here, too, we proposed a budget structure for next year, which will continue in 2017, in consultation with the President of the National Research and Innovation Office, to create a Lendület Universitas programme, which is precisely to keep it here through the funding of basic research, to support more colleagues who are active in this area and to bring it back. Then we'll expand this. The magnitude of this will be around HUF 3 billion next year, I think. This is as much as the entire Hungarian Lendület program that the Academy has done, it is not a low amount. And then this will increase significantly. So I think that funding is made up of a lot of things. The situation of rural institutions and the Community institutions. I think that from the strategy it is clear, in the law, I do not know where to refer to this now, unless we draw out the names of institutions that then it is not a higher education institution anymore. In the strategy, I think there is one thing that is clear that this government does not want to eliminate a rural higher education institution, or an establishment, not just an institution. Not because we understand from certain experiences what happens when, say, the higher education institution in Salgótarján ceases. This must now be recreated in some form, because otherwise, that county, Nógrád County, has the ability to retain it in this sense... - but companies can't even get to anyone, tell you to do some calculation for me, or do a business case, it won't work. The same will happen in Ozdon, by the way. When the strategy has been broken down and an analysis has been carried out of the regions where access to higher education is required to be created, because if it is not, what really happens is that students no longer leave Ozd 50 kilometers away, companies that need some kind of service. For example, Ozd is one of the cities where we want to set up the community centre, so I think I can promise you here, so much that last week my colleagues attended an economic forum where we were invited to take part in this particular case, how - like Salgótarján, otherwise, where we have been doing this since September last year - to provide access to higher education. I do not think it is necessary to say that higher education institutions have a third role beyond education and research: one can relate to it. There's a concert there, there's people you can talk to, so there's a lot of functions. The question of why we chose this type of model is why we call it in such a strange way; and indeed, the name is a little unfortunate. The reason we couldn't use the name "Community College" was because the college was defined by law for something else, and if we had organized it on the model of the classic, say, Community College in California, I had strong doubts about it, and we were looking at it to see if these communities were actually able to maintain and operate an institution of this type. So we chose a French solution instead. There it operates in the same way, the community provides a certain part of the conditions, it is being trained as an existing institution. I think that this can be changed later, so there is no pressure on this, but we thought it would be safer to define it in this form. Then if the community really is so strong that it can run an independent institution, then there's no reason for it to do that anyway. I think I was able to answer that question. So I think I have answered all the points of the congresswoman at some level. If you don't, you can put it on in two minutes. Congressman Pósán - and we would now be in order - I think I agree with the proposal on transparency in the consulate. 20 credits for student reclassification. I think the reason for this is clear to everyone. If the student, according to previous regulations, is running at a minimum rate of 15 credits every six months, then he could complete the course in about twice as long as it normally takes, since 30 credits have to be obtained plus or minus 3 credits in one semester. A six-month course would take exactly 12 semesters, of which 9 will be financed. So by the time the student realizes that the university is over, but he hasn't finished it yet, he's out of credits... ; so we told him to adjust this minimum score to the average of two semesters, so let's adjust it to the number of completed semesters. So let's assume that if the student continues to make 20 credits, then in the 6+3 half-year period that the state finances, he can do the institution there. By the way, that 20 credits are indeed very tight, there are trainings in which the institutions do not really respect or do not always respect these 30, plus or minus 3 credits - which should be respected under the implementing regulation, and we will be paying attention to this in the future, so that they insist - but it is indeed a legitimate point that, for example, in the medical university, when there is an anatomy, a physiology, a pharmacist, and, say, another subject of 7 credits, if the student loses one of these, let's say, and he has to get 25 credits in that semester, then he cannot do this. I think there are two types of solutions to this. One of the things you suggested, and first of all, the congressman, is to scale this credit number and assign it to the sample curriculum. This, by the way, seems to be an elegant solution, and there would indeed be a solution. The problem is that students don't get up and lie down looking at the pattern. Here, we will have to find another way to do this. The question is still open. It is certain that one of the solutions, i.e. either the fixed, the congresswoman proposed 18 points or 60 percent of the first proposal, is 60 percent of the sample plan; this will be examined very quickly and some solution, I think, will be found. It's definitely going to be a kind of relaxation compared to 20 points. The proposals on MTMT, both on the part of the Member and on the part of Mr Pósán: we absolutely agree on that. MTMT is supposed to be a good system, but it's only at the beginning of its development. Just last week, we had a meeting with the Academy to finance this, the development of MTMT, from a TÁMOP project. The TÁMOP project is closed, it needs to be sustainable, we have managed to finance it, and the amount that is meant to further develop it has been included in the budget. [[21.30]] But we would just like to eliminate the shortcomings that have been said here, the inequalities between different fields of science. In the long term, the job of MTMT would be not to buy solutions, not to buy a search engine for which we are now paying a lot of money, but only to buy access to the database, and we can do so on the basis of MTMT. It's a longer-term goal, but we definitely laid it down with the Academy. Higher education plays a major role here, since two thirds of researchers are part of the higher education system, so we use MTMT to a greater extent and rely more on it. Unfortunately, at the moment, it is still in such a state that, for example, if we had to consider scientific performance, we could not use it, but that would be the long-term goal. So we agree on this, and in this, I think that we will take a lot of steps.
u2015-06-12-170	I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, for stopping you for a minute. Mr Secretary of State has not yet said the closing words, two Members have yet to speak properly.
u2015-06-12-171	Oh, I'm sorry, I just... It is no longer possible to argue with the ladies and gentlemen of Congress in the event of closure, is there? So if we're gonna argue...
u2015-06-12-172	I have only informed the Secretary of State; you may say so, but two Members are still to speak. You have the floor, please.
u2015-06-12-173	I thought we were talking about arguing after we're shorthanded, and we're all good at it. So I'd rather answer, and then we'd still have a chance to reciprocate. Maybe we don't want to spend our time here until tomorrow morning. Okay, I'm trying to speed things up. Mr Hiller's proposals: dual training. This has been said in several places, dual training is not a miracle drug. Dual training is an opportunity, which, if an institution wants it, it will live with it, if not, not. It is true that in the case of the university of applied sciences, we have said that the university of applied sciences should be distinguished in some way from the university. This is not a condition for the operation of the doctoral school and the publication of the doctoral title, so there is another condition instead. Here in the law at this moment five and now one plus area, the sixth area, the training of social professionals will appear. They must be chosen from the institution concerned. I think that if the law shows that TDK activity is a requirement for an institution, then I think that in the case of a university of applied sciences, the name of which really sounds a little strange in Hungarian, however, if you click on the Internet, you will find a million such universities. All German colleges were otherwise renamed in this sense. We did this partly out of competitiveness, partly because, compared to college, the university of applied sciences has to meet a higher requirement. These include, by the way, the continuation of dual training in at least two areas. I don't think that's a very excessive expectation, by the way. An institution of this type, as in the case of the university, which deals with knowledge generation, and there the operation of the doctoral school, doctoral training, the issue of a doctoral title is also not an excessive requirement. He doesn't get a degree in the absence of a language exam. I understand the pragmatism of the solution, but I can't agree with it either. So, as here, I believe, Congressman said, language can be learned. So I don't think it's true that it's not, and it's also obvious that this 52,000 is reduced every year after a while, and then it goes back up again. I think that there is less ability here, more of the kind, I say that in the case of students, there is actually an understandable phenomenon, that we have time for that; then I do it once, I just got to the point that I should, and then I don't have it. The number is interesting, by the way, in 2002 at the University of Debrecen such an examination was carried out, that a significant part of the students, 80-90 percent of the students, will obtain the language exam within a year, when they went out, started working and applying him, because he has the knowledge, but he doesn't get as much salary as he would get with a degree, because we have a lot of things to do with it. So, I think motivation is very important here. At the graduation program, how well it works, how much it doesn't work, there's an interesting number, that out of these fifty-something thousand who couldn't get their degree, there were only 6,000 active job seekers. This means that the rest of them were settled, even though they didn't have a degree on paper, but they had skills. This is also being used by companies, employers, because they receive lower incomes. I think that's what we need to avoid. By the way, I think it was agreed here that the admission requirement to be introduced from 2020 will solve this situation, and until then, these colleagues will be able to obtain their language exams. I think I have answered Mr Ikotity's questions about education in rural higher education. The law doesn't include anyone wanting to shut down any country institution. All the elements that appear in this, whether training can be carried out at the same maintainer or at the other site, so that he does not have to build something himself; community training centers all show that the rural institutions are not wanted to be closed by the government but rather to develop. Here were the last two examples: Salgótarján, Ozd. And that kind of debate, and this is not just a debate in Hungary, about what a university should train a specialist for, is going on. This has been going on for a long time. I don't think that's a good solution. We agree that the current needs of the labour market should not be taken into account. Today's demand. So I have the Association of Informatics Corporations on a regular basis that there are tens of thousands of IT guys, so let's do something right away. I said, that's very good, so let's do something. What do we do? This is not a good direction, it is obviously necessary to prepare for these, so the strategy contains a relatively specific wording, that we have looked at the processes that need to be taken into account if this is to be defined. However, the economy - and it is not just companies that belong here, and I think that the strong exaggeration is that it is in the interest of any kind of industrial lobbying group; hospitals are struggling with the same thing, primary schools are struggling with the same thing, social institutions are struggling with the same thing, that there are not enough qualified professionals. So I don't think there's lobbyism here, just pragmatism, because it's missing. We cannot conclude this debate. I think that in Europe, when we look at the state of the moment, and there are many conferences that we usually take part in, there is no good solution here. For the time being, it seems that adapting to the needs of the labour market is not an immediate, but a quasi-long-term, which is based not only on information from companies, not only on institutions, but on a number of other things, which is an important thing. So we don't usually train professionals. I believe that it was also apparent here in the debate around the professional regulation that when we looked at who worked with a particular degree, this could also be called "robussity," because the student can be placed in many places, but what he satisfies there, and how much his invested energy will pay off, where appropriate, his money, and this is another question. So I think that here in the labour market completely separates higher education, there is no way that this can be done. You have mentioned, Congressman, the circumvention of the MAB, that we have eliminated the MAB here by allowing foreign rating agents to appear. Well, I don't see it the same way. What I see is that this is a very good way to improve quality. No one wants to eliminate the MAB, the MAB is an independent organization just like any other foreign organization certified by ENQA. Today, they have universities, University of Szeged, which are precisely due to quality, precisely because it is important for his reputation not to be qualified by a local organization, so they use a foreign qualification. Here, the law only says that if you take the consequences of this, take the costs, and otherwise you get something that is important to him, then you can do that, so let's not just stick to the MAB. This does not mean that the MAB is impossible, because of many aspects the role of the MAB, I think it is inevitable. Nevertheless, the possibility of having another institution alongside the MAB is important. Some countries do not have their own MAB, so there are other institutions. They bring in something where a small country like Hungary, with this limited number of higher education institutions, will sooner or later qualify each other; either positively or negatively, if my friend is positive, if not negative. This effect, I think, can be eliminated by this, but this is an opportunity, it is not a necessity. Obviously, the role of the MAB, the costs of the MAB, continues to make him absolutely the number one player in the competition. The master educator and pay voltage. We didn't know a better name for the master teacher, and it sounds a little silly to say that he was a master teacher, but all the names were already taken, because if we talk about technical fields, we should call him an industrial professor, if we talk about, like, teaching in a teaching field, where he's a master teacher, when we talk about a doctor, and when we talk about a clinical doctor. The principle here is that in all cases professionals should appear, whose knowledge is renewed not through scientific research, but through industrial practice. We agree that this is not the final version yet, we will change this, I think where we will position the master teacher. We've been thinking a lot about having a master teacher here, one, two, so let's give it a little bit to the assistant professor. For now, we are trying to see what this is like, and I think that this can be changed. Here the fact is that a specialist who does not have a scientific qualification appears, but can contribute to the university's operation in a different way. It's not a good name, by the way, because the fact that he's a master teacher doesn't mean anything. And we said that the institutions had a series of honor titles, that they could give us a title of respect in their own structure, apart from having a position and an address. So I'm glad, by the way, that this really was a positive welcome.
u2015-06-12-174	Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry to stop you again, because I can see that the record is on the verge of collapse. [[Defiance.]] So, with all due respect, I'm asking you not to hurry up, because it's simply the evening, and the ladies are working from morning onwards, and they're physically unable to follow this rate properly and record it. Besides, he's gonna have a chance in the closet. [[21.40]]
u2015-06-12-175	Yeah, I was gonna say I'm gonna finish this part. I think I said enough things to allow us to continue the debate. Thank you.
u2015-06-12-176	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A proper speech will come from the Jobbik Group, Mr Gergely Farkas. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-177	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to ask your attention on three technical issues in all, and I would like to share Jobbik's position on these matters. I would like to start with the reclassification, which everyone has already agreed to, but an important motivation has not been mentioned why this regulation is necessary. Moreover, Jobbik has been asking you for a change to this regulation for a long time. It is our motivation, and it has not been said that good students and good learners in self-cost training can be transferred to state-supported training. That hasn't been said, and that's the motivation of it all. So we don't want to punish students, we don't want to threaten students as the sword of Damocles, but we want to introduce a fair system that allows those who have received self-costing training because of a failed graduation, or who knows why students get there because of one small thing, they have the opportunity to pass state-supported training. We've had a lot of complaints that someone is a straight-A student, earning 30 extra credits every semester, and yet there's no room for state-supported training and can't get through. We all know that, but I'm telling you, there's a way for a student like you to get past state-supported training. So that's the motivation for all of this. And if we approach the question from here, then I think we can be strict, we can be a little tougher. Here, Congressman Pósán has gone a little further towards easing. We don't think that's right. We welcome the proposal that you originally and we have tabled, and that is what HÖOK agrees with as an organisation that brings together higher education students. So I think that Mr Pósán should also take into account that it is an organisation that brings together the students. Some students may have felt that they did not know what it was, but I do not think that some students' opinions should change what the higher education organisation, which represents them, considers important and correct. Maybe it's a little bit of a distraction for the students that they don't know what a pattern is. Well, maybe not everyone knew then, but if this requirement is introduced, they will pay attention to it, they will ask in the study department, and they will take their classes accordingly. I think that's why we have to look out for the students so they can work this out. I'd like to raise one more problem about this, draw attention to a loophole. You, of course, in this 60 percent amendment proposal, mentioned by the Secretary of State, are saying that the amount of credit, the amount of credit required in the sample curriculum, is 60 percent in this amendment proposal, which László Pósán submitted. And you mentioned that as one of the possible alternatives. Regardless of the proposal, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are linking this number of credits to the level that students are required to perform in such credits. What am I thinking? I mean, if I'm imagining myself in the position of a bad student, who I'm definitely afraid that I might not be able to deliver the required amount of credit for two semesters, then I'd like to add extra language training between optional objects from here and here, plus credits, which are relatively easy to do. I was in college a while back, and I remember a class where I had to write a paper, and then we got three credits. And they're every semester. Language learning is also such, which has a credit value, and it is not a subject that can be met in complexity. So there is the possibility that if someone is afraid that they will not be able to complete the main subjects, the required subjects, they will take up plus optional credits that will reach this limit and will in practice circumvent the possibility that we would like to move such students, who take the university less seriously, into self-cost training and thus open up the state-supported training to good learners. I ask that when you think about it, and I think that we will also talk about it at a committee meeting, so that it is also taken into account that this system should not be played out in this way, especially for subjects that are prescribed in the curriculum. So this is one of the main things to do is to close this loophole somehow. You may answer that the optional credits are limited by plus 10 percent, but a student of this kind quickly calculates that he is far better off if he takes credit above plus 10 percent, and then at the end of the university he pays a few ten thousand forints, which is a much better investment for him than if he is transferred to self-paid training. So I think it's important that we deal with this. The second issue is the issue of traineeships. One paragraph also introduces remuneration in the case of practical training as part of dual training. I believe that there has been little mention of this in this debate, although it is a very important thing, professional training itself. You are now extending the remuneration for vocational training to dual training, which is not a problem in itself, but a problem with the fact that there are a lot of unorganized things around traineeships, which we have repeatedly called attention to in Parliament, and unfortunately this has not been heard by you. For example, when I said an interpellation on this matter, the legislative environment was repeated by Secretary of State Rétvári, but he did not answer our question in substance. Now, this unregulated system, in our view, is being extended to dual training in many cases. I'm telling you again, it's not about the extension, it's about not dealing with it in the right way. Let's look at the issue of remuneration. At the moment, this paragraph states that 15 percent of the minimum mandatory minimum wage must be paid to students involved in the exercise. However, it is not clear whether this 15 percent is right, whether it is a good thing. I am going to read two opposing positions, just to show that you are not opening a debate on this, you are treating this part as if it were okay, while there are very serious problems. One of the positions is that the youth department of four trade union associations initiated a legislative increase in practical payments. So there is such a position, there are those who would like to increase internship salaries, and there is also a reality. For when you think about it, 15 percent of the minimum wage means that if you spend six weeks at a given workplace, after which you have to pay, you have to pay 15,000 or 20,000 forints. Correct me, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. László Palkovics: 15% of the minimum wage per week.]] Weekly, but overall. That's... [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-06-12-178	Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-12-179	I asked Mr. Secretary of State, so I ask for an acquittal for his reply to me. So, in any case, it's a minimum amount, and I don't think it's that important for the students. At the same time, there are trends that want to increase this. Allow me to present another point of view. This is a position from an ombudsman's report, which raises the exact opposite of the fact that employers' wage payments are a serious obstacle to the acquisition of traineeships and the reception capacity of institutions providing suitable places of practice. There is, therefore, such a position, which is also logical, since it involves spending for a job that provides a practical place, and, frankly, it is also necessary to deal with trainees. With all this, I just wanted to point out that the issue of traineeships is very irregular. We are not at all, and we are even sure that it is not well arranged in its present state. And only one problem is pay, pay for internship. We have raised a number of things. For example, it is not possible for students in training to evaluate internships and receive, say, some publicity. I think it would be very important to give feedback to students looking for a practical place later on about where it is worth going, where it is not worth going. There is no training, no advice for employment, and this is also a huge problem for higher education students. There's no administrative assistance. Internships could be recognised. We could figure out, let's say, the recognition of which jobs, companies and companies provide excellent practical places, tax and contribution reductions for practical places. We'd have many more of these, I'll say it again, just because we dealt with them. We've had a lot of complaints. I'm sorry they weren't open before. I wanted to take advantage of this debate to tell you that. I trust you will have openness. If not necessarily here, this time, but I think it would be worth talking seriously about, because this is not an answer I think you can answer in two minutes. We really do have a lot of practical problems, and we have a solution to these. And it needs to be addressed before this is extended to dual training, because, I say again, an extension of a defective system may not be correct. [[21.50]] The third major issue I would like to address is language learning. We have repeatedly made criticisms about language learning, even on the basis of the fact that you have set the existence of a secondary C language examination as a condition of entry into higher education, but we do not hear about the language education reforms that you would be carrying out. I think that the possibility and obligation to undertake foreign language training in this bill does not necessarily serve language learning, because this is more likely to imply that language knowledge exists, because one must then take an exam in this subject, and it is unlikely that such an opportunity can be used for language learning. So it would be much more important to organise language education in higher education institutions. In this regard, we have made several proposals to increase the number of free language education semesters in higher education institutions to the level required for a degree. I can give you my practical example. At the time, I took five years of traditional training at Corvinus, and if I remember correctly, it was four semesters out of the ten semesters when language teaching was free, and then eight years ago, 40-50 thousand forints had to be paid every six months, and this not only hit me, but also hurt a few of my fellow students. I think that it would be in everyone's interest to extend language education to higher education institutions, and to help the unfortunately weak language skills of Hungarian society. This would also be an answer to the fact that there would be less degrees in there, which we know very well - because we have also talked about - what a big problem it is. And here I must add that we consider the proposal of the MSZP to be completely flawed professionally that a language examination amnesty should be introduced for those who could not obtain the language exam. I don't want to go deeper into this because more people responded to it, I just want to make one argument. In this case, it is also worth considering how people who have obtained their language exams would react to this question, and thus have obtained their degree, going through the difficult path that we know is the result of obtaining a language exam. In such cases, they should not be ignored, their sensitivity and their rightful sense of justice. I ask the Secretary of State to close the loophole on these three issues, on the issue of reclassification, and to make it possible for good students to receive state-supported training by means of a more stringent regulation, but in the direction of justice. I would like to ask you to discuss the issue of traineeships, if we have the opportunity, because there are very serious problems in this area, in our view. As regards language learning, I would like to offer you the opportunity to extend the free semesters. Otherwise, we had another proposal to make the first secondary type C language exam free, and we have also proposed this for a long time. We think that would be a big help too. There are young people in a social situation who unfortunately also have a problem with 20-30 thousand forints in order to obtain their language exams. So it would be worth considering. I hope that we can hold a professional debate on all three points. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-12-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Nándor Gúr, the notary of the Parliament is next. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-181	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr State Secretary, I started today's agenda by asking a number of questions, but I can see that it doesn't make much sense, because it talks about things for a long time, as if with a lecture from a university, but it doesn't answer the questions that have been asked. Therefore, I will not ask these questions, but rather I will make three brief statements, so brief, that once he has time and listens to me, then he can disprove me, if there really is a basis, there is a background to his rebuttal. Look, he had a sentence that he didn't explain in the half hour we were listening to earlier, which was about where we didn't put resources, but he didn't say the thought. If you've thought about it, then say it, please. Besides, I am telling you that Hungarian higher education has not been the place where there was no right to put funds and money in the last decades either. Hungarian higher education was exactly where more money should have been put, even in our period of government, but what you have done in the last six years is shameful. Just to make the picture clear and clear, if you don't know, I'll help you, if you do, then please confirm that if you can do something else, you'll create credible rebuttal foundations for what you want to say. During 2002 - let's go back to this point - the ratio of funds spent on higher education was around 2.4 percent, in line with the expenditure of the central budget in the Hungarian higher education system. But it was not very different in 2006 either, it was still 2.5 per cent, but in 2009, you know, after 2008, the share in the system of higher education, in the first year after the economic and financial crisis, was more than 2.3 per cent. You understand the numbers, don't you? I see you're looking at me with a clear look, so take what these numbers mean in source. Thank you very much. If it's clear and clear, then you also know that from 2010, the story went into a dive. If I remember correctly, you came in 2010, Fidesz government came. The dive's on the move. In 2011, it is no longer 2,3-2,4 to 2,5 per cent of the total amount of the central budget, but 1.3 per cent in the system of higher education, in proportion to the total amount of the financial resources. This trend, this trend, will continue in 2012, and in 2013 we will achieve that the share of funds in the higher education system is less than 1 percent compared to the totals of the central budget. The same is true for 2014, but also for 2015. In 2010, in order not only to start from 2002 it was 186 billion forints in the higher education system, as it was five years ago, and it is a 2013 figure that is about 123 billion forints. Don't wave your head, Mr. Secretary, because the numbers here appear to be a stubborn fact. This is what comes out of the main amount of the central budget in the system of higher education. You can say anything, it's facts. The point is, therefore, that there has been a tragic withdrawal from the system of higher education, and this has led to the situation that, in the same way as, in addition to you, State Secretary Czibere, there have been similar withdrawals from the health system of the amount of HUF 300 billion that was virtually withdrawn from 2010 here. This has all led to and results in the fact that basic tasks in the system of higher education institutions are in jeopardy. Of course, it can be told in half an hour, an hour and a half about why this is not the case, but I would like to tell you that basic tasks have been compromised within the system of higher education institutions. [[22.00]] And then I'm not going to start talking about the various changes here, I'm not going to talk about what the Chancellor's role is, and why we need to reduce the freedom of the Rector, why the right of agreement has to appear, or I don't want to talk about the matters of the Consistorium, which you said the Rector's wish is practically to get the consistorium up; I think there might be some - some - slippage in this. I know some rectors in Hungary, I know some rectors' opinions about this story, but somehow it doesn't ring a bell with the thoughts of your half-hour expozee. One word, like a hundred, the point is that the funding system that you've been doing for the last five years after 2010 was based on the fall of the higher education system. There is no security today from the operational side of almost no institution, virtually the money that is now in the 2015 budget - you know this number as well - in the system, I think it is 152 billion forints, so if you compare this money with, say, the ratio of funds invested in 2002, the ratio of the central budget to the total amount, then do you know how much it should be? Then it should be about HUF 400 billion, HUF 400 billion to represent the same value as the financial ratio in 2002 compared to the total amount of 2.4 percent. In other words: 150 billion are in through the budget, and 250 billion are not in, which should be in, not half of what should be in with a 2002 funding, but a much larger amount of withdrawal compared to the last eleven years. Well, that's what should be so very proud of - quote - that's what you should be saying, how you want to change this situation, and perhaps on the stage of common sense, that the damage that has happened to the system of higher education through the withdrawal of funds in the five-year period behind your back, where, how, how it will be restored. And then there are other types of issues that my fellow Members have dealt with here, and I do not want to deal with them in terms of saving time, and I wish to make just two comments. One of my comments is that everything you have said here about the matters of the rural knowledge bases is not correct in my judgement and experience. It is not correct, because, in the last five years, rural knowledge bases have suffered constant disadvantages, and I can give you examples of this, and I can make this a more thorough analysis, and I would also like to have a personal consultation with you in this regard, but not to talk to you, but to change the situation; so that if these distorted situations develop, they will have the willingness to change, because it is precisely these knowledge bases that give young people who suffer from certain disadvantages in the countryside that give them a chance and opportunity. You know - just to simplify the story - that if a rural, capable child wasn't born into a family that could afford the school-free higher education that you operate, that a semester, let's say, in terms of economic education, might reach hundreds of thousands of HUF, well, if the family can't finance it, then there's a problem. But if, let's say, this type of training or any other specialised training that has been in specific rural knowledge centres will cease to exist and, let's say, will only be in Budapest, then it is likely that there will be rent-paying costs and obligations, travel expenses and much more. This brings with it that a child who has no background behind him is virtually excluded from obtaining this knowledge. Rather, we should think about how to create this area of 93,000 square kilometers in Hungary, but how and how to compensate for the disadvantages arising from such large social differences, not with such donations of 1-2-5-10 thousand forints, but in such a way that the amounts of money I have said above, which burden these families and young people as an extra burden, do not arise and do not come up against them. The other thing I would like to do is not to repeat it, but rather to confirm what Vice-President Hiller has said in the foregoing: this is the problem affecting 52 thousand students, which, because of the lack of language examination, does not give or carry access to a degree because of the lack of language examination. I would just like to say here that my fellow Member did not talk about what my better fellow Member said, either, that a degree without a language examination is the same as a diploma paired with a language examination; the labour market gives it its value. And, you know, not all young people in Hungary believe that, even if you want to corner them and make them economic refugees, that you want to leave this country, there are also people who do not want to leave this country, and there are those who, let's say, are able to provide their professional knowledge acquired at a higher level without a language examination, without certain language skills, and there are also employers in the labour market who will not employ them on the basis of the language exam. But as long as they don't receive their degree without a language exam, they don't naturally get a degree as a person, but, let's say, they look at them as a person with a secondary education and professional qualifications, and, for example, they pair the income relationship with the guaranteed minimum wage of 122 thousand HUF, where appropriate, instead of being able to find a place in the wage conditions that can be adapted to his professional knowledge. So, it's more complex than putting it in place with a simple language clearance program; we can also see the failure of the story they have done in this respect. I could say the word for 30 to 50 to 80 minutes, I only have 15, but for the sake of fairness, I'm not using that 15 either. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-06-12-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. As no one has applied for further speeches, the general debate is closed. The Secretary of State wishes to respond to what has been said. Here you are, Secretary of State, your time frame is 30 minutes. Here you go.
u2015-06-12-183	Thank you. The situation is not fair right now, because what I'm about to say will not be able to respond, but this is what I'm going to do, so I'm going to try. I probably spoke quickly just now, because in the last speech I felt that I probably did not fully understand what I said. I'd like to start with the previous one, Mr. Wolf's comments on the answer. Unfortunately, the congressman wasn't in during the expo when I was talking about the benefits of this credit point requirement. The aim of this is, however, that at the moment, for whatever reason, but students who have not won a state, Hungarian state scholarship, who have otherwise improved their results, can get into the funded form - if they are still fast, then maybe you should signal them, okay? - so that's what this is all about. It's a consequence, by the way, that we talked about here. And I'm glad that if the government is not the most determined in this room, and we're not saying that 20 points should be 20 points, but that's what opposition parties are saying. I think that it is also in the interests of students here that we should really look at how this score fits together - as I said, in the Commission debate we will still have the opportunity to do so. Both of these proposals are about the same, so I think we'll know what to do with this. As far as traineeships are concerned, I think there are some things mixed up here, some of the benefits that the company can enjoy, when they receive an experienced student and dual training. At this moment, the regulation is that the student who takes part in the internship, and the law is quite clear in this regard, should receive 15% of the minimum wage per week. [[22.10]] This means that if we calculate this, the student will receive approximately 67 thousand forints for a month, I think. This HUF 67,000 net is HUF 67,000. This is a wage, but it is paid as a scholarship, and this HUF 67 thousand is also paid to the company. So I think that the regulation of this is in order. In the case of dual training, it is said that the student is a student worker, and there is a law on the contract to be concluded with him. This contract protects the student's interests. So this describes things in dual training, which, I think, is well thought out, and given that this has been happening in several places since 2012, I believe that it represents the best interests of the student. I can agree with that, and I think it's a good idea, and we're going to consider how the student can classify the practical training site. The question of the practical training site was what benefits it enjoyed. This is still the case today that after students in training, the company can deduct the 100th part of the HUF 450 thousand from the vocational training contribution and claim it back if it does not have enough. So I think this thing is organized. By the way, we proposed to increase this amount, so the annual normative for engineering or higher education should not be 450 thousand forints, but 900 thousand forints, which is roughly equivalent to those of the students in the turning room. But we can talk about this in detail, and I think that there is no contradiction between us. As regards the issue of language learning, I believe that the strategy does not include the mandatory language examination requirement from 2020, but the recruitment regulation. So, for now, that's true. I think Congressman Hiller here asked what was the situation with secondary education or public education. This is one of the interfaces through which higher education in the direction of public education - there are many others, for example, higher levels of maturity - impose a requirement that public education must meet, and there are many similar things. About how much you can pass the language exam, how much you can't put it down, I think there's a split of opinions. We have looked at the number of language lessons per student in the surrounding countries, higher than all in Hungary. Why Hungarian students cannot pass a language exam for this is not entirely so. Sixty-five percent of students applying to university already have type C secondary language exams. So I guess it's not that bad here. We tend to devalue our own children and our own grammar teachers. I don't think there's anything wrong with either of them. If we impose a requirement that will be required from 2020, everyone will adapt to this, otherwise, workers who do not get their degrees will also adapt to it. I understood exactly what Congressman Hiller was proposing. The proposal is what is now the practice. The practice is that professionals and students who have completed the absolutorium are working, just not paying them as much as they would pay with a degree. So that's the problem, and that's what I said, but here, you have the motivation, and you get your language exam very quickly. Congressman Gur. Now this was a basically political type of speech. I am very happy to talk about what the funding of Hungarian higher education looked like between 2010 and 2015. Here we tend to compare facts and appropriations. So this 2013 123 billion was an appropriation, that year HUF 167 billion of budget support was added to the higher education institutions, which in fact was 183 billion in 2010, then the plan number was the same as the fact number, and it was only eleven billion forints lower than that. So it's really possible to talk about these numbers, I think I answered Mr Hiller's question in detail the other day about these numbers, so it's not that bad. One thing is always forgotten, however, is that there is a massive decline in student numbers. In 2010-2015 alone, the number of students decreased by around twenty-one percent, and if you look at this in comparison to 2004-5, then there were 420 thousand students of Hungarian higher education, and now this number has fallen below 300 thousand. Here you can dissect why there are so few children and what happened, however, these are facts. If we look at the OECD report - I think everyone has seen this - the per capita higher education funding in this one - and they are based on the same number - corresponds absolutely to the average of the countries of Eastern Central Europe. Obviously, this could be higher, which is what we're working on to make it higher. The fact that I was talking about public funding or in what way, and I think I was talking about it before, although I may have been a little too fast. The opinion of the Rector's Conference on the Consortium. I don't talk to a rector. I talk to all of them. The President of the Rector's Conference, who represents the Rector's Conference together with several others, suggested this solution, we had another proposal before him, by the way. I think the benefits of this are obvious from the rector's point of view, and I would not want to repeat that here. I think that with a little reflection, or if someone reads the text of the law, they understand exactly how the rector's or the university's autonomy increases with the function of the Chancellor. And I would really like to speak very briefly about rural knowledge bases. I believe that both the strategy and our activities so far show that where there was no higher education, we want it. Salgótarján, Ozd, Kisvárda, so there are a number of areas where there seems to be a demand for this, and otherwise the local community can finance it. But I could talk about higher education institutions such as Baja, Gyöngyös, Dunaújváros, Nyíregyháza, Békéscsaba, Jászberény, Szekszárd. These institutions have a very big problem. Institutions have the problem, unlike the large institutions and the institutions in Pest, that they are the type of faulty decision they made somewhere around 2004-5-6, and the idea they at the time seem good, the creation of PPP constructions, say, in terms of infrastructure construction, meant that these institutions, which I listed, had a significant reduction in the number of students. In the case of Gyöngyös, it was quartered, and in Baja's case it also decreased to about a third in Nyíregyháza. However, there is a burden that he must bear, a significant burden of PPP. But if we look at it, and we looked at these figures, what percentage of the fixed costs of the institution, i.e. not the wage, but the cost of rem, is the PPP burden, half of which, in addition to this norm, is the government, so what numbers we are talking about here, 153 billion is not 153 billion, it is 197 billion this year, because this remainder goes to higher education, and even if we add to it the support of non-state higher education institutions, it would be another amount - but now let us not get involved in the number war - half of which is provided by the government in addition to this amount. The budget of the institutions represents between 40 and 50 percent of the costs in rem, with a declining number of students. That is why the decision has been made, and it seems in the budget for next year that we will start to replace these schemes, simply because if we do not replace it, then what the Member said will indeed happen is that these institutions will not be able to work, and I think that the operation of these schemes is important because of what we have written quite clearly. So I think I've already answered the rest in detail, and I don't want to take anyone's time. Thank you. [[Dr. László Pósán applauds.]]
u2015-06-12-184	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it was possible to present the amendments by 4 p.m. yesterday. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. Today, after the agenda, Mr István Ikotity, from the Group of the LMP, came forward with the title of "Sunday Fishermen's Juice." I'll give you the floor in five minutes, though it's only Friday.
u2015-06-12-185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm Congressman Baja, I'm from Baja, my family lives there, and a lot of people are looking for me with different problems. I would like to say one of these, which relates to something that has been on Parliament's agenda in recent months. Sunday fish juice - this is the title of my speech, I would like to start with the fish juice, and very briefly the story of this. This is deeply rooted in the soul of his troubles, the intersection and encounter of the professions there. It is a water city, and the fishermen in the water city naturally caught their fish, and they lived for a long time outside the water in their summer huts. Almost the few trades they encountered were one of these water millers, grounding the wheat on ships, making one of the best preserved noodles, practically pasta, a meal made of flour that is relatively easy to preserve. The encounter of the two, and the fish and pasta clearly gave the idea of this very simple and very quickly prepared, but very tasty food. This is, of course, a tradition there in Baja, who is going to Baja today, there is no family who does not cook a good fishing life every week or every two weeks at most. It's done very quickly, from the start of the fire, it doesn't take an hour, 50-55 minutes from the intensity of the fire to get this on the table. As a Sunday, what problem can lovers of local gastronomy encounter? [[22.20]] Obviously, this fish, when it's bought, although it's true that its deepest problems are catching the fish themselves, but people are comfortable buying it from small businesses that have nearly a dozen in Baja, and prepared, kitchen-ready, pooped, the unnecessary parts removed. It's not a long time, and in the hands of a skilled man, it happens quickly, but it's a difficult, dirty thing to do, so the troubles are happy to buy it from small businessmen, the fish merchants. However, in the last few months, they have been confronted with the fact that it is not so easy on Sunday, as the closing hours on Sunday are also less than 200 sq m, they cannot employ employees on this day, only family members. They cannot absorb the capacity to give people purified fish, and it therefore takes considerably more time. When you think about it, it was a KDNP proposal, Sunday morning, if someone goes, say, at 9:00 a.m. to a Mass, coming home, jumping in to the fishmonger, lightning speed, at noon, there's this fish juice on the table. This has changed to the extent that this fish juice is not ready by noon, because it needs to be prepared, and this requires a little more work, especially cleaning around it. So I'm saying this on behalf of a number of his troubles, because it was obviously a suggestion, this part of Sunday's closure, which was on the one hand unprepared, was not assessed for the exact consequences, and we can see that there is such an effect on the ground, which was not even thought of. They're holding back a value, a local gastronomic value, and they're taking people a little bit off their minds about doing that, cooking a fish soup on Sunday... well, we can see that. Our proposal is to reconsider this amendment and allow them, in the case of a plant size of less than 200 square meters, to put employees to work on Sundays. That is my suggestion and thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-12-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you for your work, especially those who have endured with us here for the late hours. I'm closing the meeting, saying good night to all of you. We will continue our work on Monday at 11 o'clock. [[Meeting ended at 22:22 p.m.]]
