u2015-06-11-0	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome all of you and all of you who are monitoring our meeting today. The 40th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Congressmen Attila Moring József and Ádám Mirkóczki will be here to assist me as notaries. There will be a general debate on the bill amending certain laws relating to water utility services until closure. The submission is T/4821. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, Minister of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute timeframe. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-11-1	Good morning. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, The aim of the bill before you is to regulate in law one or two areas that have not yet been settled and clarified in the field of water utility services, or to shorten periods of time that will shorten and facilitate the different authorisation and installation procedures at the end of the various investments. The need to amend the existing legislation is justified by the fact that between 2007 and 2013 several public utilities were developed from EU funds, most of which will be completed in 2015. The technical transfer process for the installed water utilities during the different authorisation procedures is such a long but necessary transition period, which exceeds the trial period itself. In order to reduce this period of several months, we want to introduce a shorter deadline. This would reduce this procedure from several months to some 45 days, enabling such a water utility service system to be activated. From the point of view of the charging system, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office itself will have the power to set the fee, so a very fast system will be introduced, even during the trial period, and even after that, setting the server fees precisely. It is also essential that operational experience and expertise come into play in the performance of tasks and these processes are used. Accordingly, the bill creates a direct link between the investor and the service provider, we grant the right to propose and comment, we grant customer status in the water administration procedures and in the design of the area of service itself. This will be a very positive consequence for future operation, according to experience. The obligations to join the water utility systems, i.e. the mandatory implementation of the connection line, will be delegated to district offices in the context of the reregulation appearing in the bill. The main aim of the Decision is to increase the efficiency of the procedure, to increase the number of connections to different water utility services and, in particular, to reduce the so-called water scissors, to increase the validity of sewer investments. The bill also empowers the President of the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office to establish, for example, fees for use in order to determine the extent of the water utility development contribution in a system that will serve as a basis for practical cost accounting and real cost recovery for operation. The Authority's pricing of so-called special fee services that have been used for electricity and gas services for a long time, such as by-water meters, water restrictions and interruptions, the bill extends to water utility services. This will also create a more transparent service system, building a system that can be followed up and monitored precisely by users of services. In this area, prior to 2011, there was an untraceable and extreme practice as a legacy of local government price regulation, with huge differences across the country between different regions and different municipalities. It is also essential that consumers receive these services at predictable and fair prices, so the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office will propose the fees for special prized services in the future, starting in January 2016, in a ministerial decree. Dear Parliament, The above amendment, the above amendment of legislation, is purely and exclusively for this purpose, the accounting of investments and developments, the precise definition of the different price-setting factors. Following the ongoing professional consultation, amendments to the water utility service and those proposed by the specialties are expected to be brought back to this House in the autumn. In view of what has been said and of the urgency of these legislative changes concerning the investments to be made this year, I would like to ask that T/4821: Please discuss a bill tabled and support the Government's intention to amend the law. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-11-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The representatives will be taking part in the speeches. We'll start with the lead speakerial round in accordance with the house rules. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr István Németh Szilárd. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-11-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, As the Secretary of State has indicated, there is a very important amendment of the law on our table. It is also urgent to vote in favour of this, and this law should be applied already in the summer, precisely because of the improvements, investments and the elimination of the coherence problems contained in the previous amendment, to which the Secretary of State referred. I would like to stress that the main aim of Fidesz in relation to drinking water is to provide cheap, clean and healthy drinking water to all Hungarians, and we would also like to achieve a uniform price for Hungarian people, regardless of which part of the country they live in, either in the capital city or in one of the rural settlements. In any case, it is an important goal for us to maintain the sustainability of the cost reduction. So, for example, we cannot afford to standardize in such a way as to increase the price of water in one place and reduce it in the other place. It is a very important goal, because I think that it is no secret for anyone to preserve our future, that we will preserve the drinking water base and its safety as we are seeing it today. [[8.10]] But that is not what this bill is about, and I would like to say once again that the aim of this bill is, on the one hand, to extend the reduction of the rent in places where there are transitional charges, in a legal way, so that everyone can have the effect of reducing the costs, and the legislative coherence that has been burdened by the 2011 CCIX on water utility services. Law, take him out. I would like to draw your attention to six such areas of Parliament, which can be found in this law. This bill provides, among other things, for the possibility of legal processing of the water utility provider and district office, and sets out detailed rules for the district office to carry out the procedure more effectively in order to initiate the procedure for access to the public utility network. The bill sets a new basis for setting fees for a service that has not been provided before, and sets out the basic rules for the procedure to be initiated. These changes call for the 2013 LIV on the implementation of the reductions. the amendment of Law 21, with a view to extending the scope of the reduction to temporary charges laid down in the future. The CLVIII of 2013 on the Single Public Service Account Image is a legislative task closely linked to the above. amendment of the law. The purpose of this is to make the content of the reduction of the overhead also applicable to the transitional charges. So this is where the adjustment of the account image is linked to the transitional fees. Energy billing images will be expanded on the basis of positive feedback from the public, so that users can also be more informed about the possibility of comparing their own consumption and national average consumption data. In order to better protect and further expand consumer interests, the proposal also aims to regulate the working fees for services provided by water utility providers on the basis of a separate fee, as in this field, partly as a result of the distorted price system established before the entry into force of the previous law and the continuation of its impact, the practice of water utility providers varies considerably. Thus, different charges have been set in different parts of the country, depending on who they have concluded contracts with. I think that there is a need for order to be made in any way. Here we can talk about changing the adjutant meters, recessing, off- and off-line and its charges. Here, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office regulates the scope of special fee services and applicable prices in the future. The rules on fines are still being amended, as there is a very serious lack of coherence in these too, and this bill also remedys this whole fine system, so it becomes clear to everyone when a fine can be used. In addition to the above, the bill includes minor conceptual and linguistic corrections and clarifications. With regard to the above, it is clear that Fidesz supports this bill and I ask my fellow Members in Parliament to do the same. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-11-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Anita Heringes. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-11-5	Thank you very much for the floor. We can agree that this has now been brought in as a matter of urgency, and, as you say, the urgency is, above all, in relation to the authorisation of new investments, according to you. What we do see, however, is that the urgency is justified, but it should not be urgent, and it should not be an attempt to change this law again in the autumn, but it should be properly fixed for once. It was precisely Mr Secretary of State who said in the budget debate that one should think about these matters as a family, so that one knows how much his income is, and how long he can stretch out, how long his blanket lasts. I think the water utility service is the same. To be able to create a system that will continue to be sustainable in the future. I therefore think that, at the moment, we should not rush into this issue, but instead, by listening to the profession, we should establish a sustainable system, which is now not based on this amendment. What we see in the bill is that it creates the legal possibility for the water utility provider to process data legally, puts the fee for the service not previously provided on a new basis, regulates the basic rules of the procedure for initiating the request, the proposal seeks to regulate the fees for services performed by water utility providers on the basis of a separate fee and corrects the system of fines. We think that, of course, these are very important, but, as I said, we should rethink the system ourselves. We believe that, first and foremost, a system must be set up that is sustainable and provides both service providers, the municipality and the population with adequate fees. After all, water supply today is one of the sectors in which the population is least paid. Because you know that if you collect your checks in the drawer, if your water supply, if you no longer fit into your monthly costs, does not pay, you will not turn off the water supply, which is all right, because it is everyone's fundamental right to access clean drinking water. You've only managed to create a system with penalty taxes that is not sustainable at the moment. And then let's look at the numbers, because you always refer to the numbers. Until 2013, this was also a sustainable system for water utility providers. From 2013 onwards, it could be seen that operators with a majority of the majority of public ownership have become loss-making, those that are not state-owned or maintained, but most of them have also been loss-making and had a small share of them who were profitable. And do you know who the profitable companies were? Metropolitan companies, who have reached many residents with a short network of sewers, have paid less taxes for this. I think that a fair system should be established that does not punish service providers or the population. Because it should never be forgotten that the penalty for the service provider will be the punishment of the public after a while, because if the service provider cannot provide the water normally, because he has no money for maintenance, purchase of equipment, wage increases or hiring people, he will eventually be at the expense of the service itself. Because if you can't maintain me, there's nothing you can do to get out of here when a pipe break happens and solve the problem right away, because they're old and old, then it's just gonna cost you the service itself. That is why I say that we should be able to create a system where the service provider, the population and the municipality will benefit. Therefore, we think that water is a fundamental right for everyone. I think, fellow Members, it is a more fundamental food than pork, so I think that its VAT content should be reduced to about the same level as that of pork, because, as you can see, water is essential for people. That is why I ask you to think about it, too, because for the population, this would finally be a tangible change. We exchange meters here every four years, while we see that in the other EU Member States this happens every 10-20 years. The good question is why we have to do this every four years. Even the service providers themselves say that the lost water from the authentication, which goes away at this time, is less than the loss they would otherwise be losing in changing the meter, because it costs them HUF 2 billion a year. It makes me wonder why, if the same meters can work for 10-20 years abroad, we have a four-year meter change. It also makes me wonder that, according to your rules, water watch reading is now mandatory once a year. [[8.20]] Think about the fact that an older man who can't go down the shaft, can't look at the water meter, can't see if he has a pipe break anywhere after the water meter. From here on out, he's gonna have a serious consumption and he won't even notice it. So far, they've been going out in person, especially in the countryside, the meter readers and they've looked at it properly, helping older citizens to avoid having to pay them unnecessarily. Now that this is not mandatory, they will not go out on such a regular basis, as it will cost extra money. For the water utility sector, there are three key points where public utility tax regulation is problematic. Water utility providers do not have the possibility to manage the tax burden on them either on the revenue or on the cost side. The water utility sector has a high public utility space compared to other industries, and the tax base is the length of the utility line. However, the revenue to cover the tax is not proportional to the length of the line, but to the price and quantity of the product sold. The water utility sector selling relatively cheaper products on a wire network of the same length is faced with a specific significantly higher public utility tax burden than the other pipeline industries. Within the water utility sector, different operating conditions cause a significant difference in the specific utility tax burden. As I said, for companies providing services in settlements that reach much more inhabitants with a short section, there is obviously less tax burden than in villages and many settlements. They should therefore also consider the basis on which this tax is levied. From 2013 onwards, 20-25 billion revenue losses have been caused by your unthinkable legislation and regulation in the sector. I think we really should maintain a system where the state takes responsibility for the losses, and we should create a system where the public can pay for it, because rural people do want to pay for the water supply, but, as I said, it is, unfortunately, at the bottom of the checks, because the rest must be paid, otherwise it will be turned off. And you see, that's what you can slip away from your monthly income when you can't find another way out of your money. I think that the state cannot pull down these public utilities. We have already said that several times in the waste transport, in the chimney sweep, and now in the water utility, we are afraid that the regulation is now being done quickly and trying to fix this sector quickly, so that once the water service providers say thank you very much, we cannot maintain this service in this form any longer, let the state solve it, then after a while the state will einstand the tool, the service and everything, and once it now corrects a part of the system, doing its own good, then it will take over a system in which it no longer has to make very serious changes. But if the rules don't change, the service will remain unsustainable and we won't get ahead of it. To remedy problems, this law does not provide a professional solution. It is necessary to ensure that the water utility sector is exempted from paying a disproportionate public utility tax. The specific utility tax burden of the wire industry should be close to the same, and the utility tax load should be limited from above. It is recommended that consideration be given to reducing the VAT content of basic activity services. Because of your bad decisions, as I've said, there are approximately 20-25 billion revenue losses in service providers right now. And really understand that it doesn't matter how sustainably service providers can do this, because in the long run it will really go to the detriment of the public, and it will go the same way as electricity suppliers, that when there is a problem in the network, it will take more and more days to repair the network because of the ageing, deterioration of the assets, lack of people and low wages. It is really necessary to create a system where the public will not feel that you are not steering well. It is recommended to increase the period of authenticity of the means of attachment from four years to at least eight years. Like I said, this is between ten and 20 years in Europe, but we only have this four-year exchange. It is also important to have the same time of authenticity for binding and bypasses. According to these professional opinions, a normal pricing policy could finally be developed for water utility services. To finance reconstructions, a reconstruction financing system should be established by means of premium subsidies or preferential loans. What I would very much like to draw your attention to is that the definition of an individual waste water treatment plant is not quite understandable, even for the profession, because waste water collection pools and treatment pools are not regarded as such, even though they are recognised by Directive 91/271/EEC on municipal waste water treatment. This should therefore also be considered in order to make it more precise. We think that we should finally put this sector in order, we should not rush into the changes, we should create a sustainable system for the satisfaction of the population, the service provider and the local government, and we should not bring it back in the fall and then modify it to see what errors are in it again. You have passed this law in 2011, and we have amended it for the second time since then, and as we have heard from the Secretary of State, we will begin for the third time in autumn, around September. You have to work accurately and accurately, and you don't have to bring it back. When we already know that it will have to be amended then too, we will not bring this law back in the autumn session. We hope that you will hear, want to hear the opposition's thoughts on this issue, and support some of our ideas and suggestions, which you can now improve this law with amendments. The whole law should be put together, time should be allowed to fix this, thinking with the profession, talking to the mayors, service providers and the public on this issue, and creating a law in the water utility that will work well. If they hear our word, then we can support it, but in this form, that they have struck something and placed it on the table again, it will be difficult to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-11-6	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr László Földi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-11-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, I think that the fact that this law comes before the House proves precisely that the Hungarian Government is responsible for its thinking on services, both on water utilities and on other services. There are events in life, there are turns of events, for example, now that a lot of EU applications are closed in 2015 and it is important that the systems that have been completed here can enter this service system with integrity. One of the aims of the proposal, which has already been mentioned by Mr Secretary of State, and also by my fellow Member before me, is to create the possibility of legal processing of the water utility provider. They will go to the district offices, and I hope that a system will be established that will represent the users of the service with integrity and security. In addition, the proposal will review the opening of an ex officio procedure and will in future link it to a specific content of the water utility provider's request and re-regulate cases of exemption from obligation. The proposal clarifies the establishment of powers related to the implementation of that law. It is proposed that, if restrictions are imposed, the public health organisation should be relieved of prior authorisation, leaving it with the possibility of intervention as necessary. I consider it very important that, according to the proposal, the procedure for setting public fees for water utilities with new investment will be substantially reduced to 45 days. If the proposal is adopted, it will allow a satisfactory closure of EU water utility projects ending in 2015 and thus ensure their sustainability. [[8.30]] The rules for the collection and use of the water utility development contribution are clarified and the missing rules are complemented by the proposal under negotiation. In the case of water utility investments at the stage of implementation, water utility service providers will be given the right to comment and propose a bill so that the minimum cost principle can be taken into account by the developer in the technical design of the investment. On the basis of the National Consumer Protection Authority's 2014 regulatory reduction report, the question was also raised as to whether the information already used in the other energy account pictures issued by the water utility provider would be included, from which the user would be able to compare its own consumption with the consumption data of the previous and statistical average. The Economic Competition Authority considered it necessary to introduce a single regulatory price regulation for ancillary services carried out by water utility providers on the basis of a special fee as there is a significant difference in the practice of water utility providers. I note only in parentheses that we change the different meters every seven years, and in fact consumers read water consumption at least four times a year. In addition to the above, a number of enforcement experience has been accumulated in the application of the law that has made the amendment of the law timely. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I propose to this House the adoption of the draft law before us, and I ask the factions to support it. KDNP will support this bill when voting. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-11-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Lajos Kepli. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-11-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I welcome my fellow Members. Mr. Secretary. This proposal is supported by the Jobbik Hungary Movement, and I will state it right from the beginning. That is because, contrary to the MSZP... - we have also looked at whether it will solve all the problems of the water utility sector, and it is obvious that it will not solve it, but I think that every step that can be supported, as we have done on the basis of our policy so far, we can support it. If it brings Hungarian people one step closer to their better livelihood or goal, then this is eligible for us. Indeed, there are measures in this regard, in particular the reduction of the additional services to the public price or the authorisation procedure, which, as the Secretary of State said, is due to the system of accounting for EU tenders - tenders due to expire this year. But in any case, they all serve to make the situation a little more orderly in this rather chaotic water supply sector. Since my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, covered the water bases, so with a sentence, although this is not the subject of the law, I would also object. In this respect, we do not see the situation as rosy as Fidesz or the governing parties, since our water bases are in constant danger. This is partly due to the closure of the national environmental remediation programme and to a long list. But the point is that the water bases from which we extract the drinking water, which is then supplied by the supplier to consumers, are in danger every day, are threatened with pollution, the risk of contamination, and this should also be dealt with more seriously. It's not the subject of this law, but it's definitely worth talking about. As regards the reduction of overhead costs - as another eternal subject here on the various energy and utility billings - Jobbik has been saying or saying from the beginning that although it supports all kinds of measures relating to the reduction of costs, this lawnmower-like reduction is not entirely fair, especially in terms of water prices. After all, the water price is the same as the one who spends a pool with him, who uses it for his daily livelihood, drinking water, or cooking, or cleaning. That is why we have proposed earlier - the right to access drinking water, as it is a fundamental right, because life is a condition for a healthy life - so that everyone can have the amount of drinking water that is needed for their everyday needs regardless of their financial and social situation. This can be achieved by punishing waste water on the other side. So in Hungarian: we do not introduce the reduction of the rent in a uniform way, but in accordance with the different levels of water consumption, because it is not possible to support waste water in the same way as those who are trying to provide financial cover for the necessary drinking water for their daily livelihood. To them, I'm willing to risk making that minimum amount available free of charge. Therefore, however, we can also support other provisions existing in the Act that help to resolve the situation of the water utility sector, but there are problems in the country, practical problems that need to be resolved, as settlements may still exist, even though there may be settlements, although I do not know that there are complete settlements, but settlements in Hungary, whose water supply is not settled. For example, the Badacsonyörs of Veszprém County, where the drinking water supply of hundreds of real estate was threatened this spring by the owners adding money to a drinking water network that was built 20 years ago, but which the service provider did not take over because it did not recognise it as a standard water supply network. A company was set up there, which may not even have been registered, but it is a fact that for 20 years the locals have paid the drinking water fee to this existing or nonexistent company. Then came the technical problems, the increased water charge, and this spring the scandal broke out that the service provider did not put drinking water into this network, and then, one hour a day, he limited access to drinking water, saying that it was not a standard water supply network. The supply of drinking water to hundreds of property owners, permanent residents and holiday owners has been compromised. So this, I believe, is not permissible in Hungary today, and such problems must be resolved. Obviously, the only solution is to clean up the drinking water network from public sources, to standardise the drinking water network, and to ensure that locals have access to drinking water within a standard framework by the water utility provider. Obviously, this is not the only example in Hungary, and I could highlight this. I wouldn't waste much time, perhaps I would like to say that the water utility sector, as the Secretary of State said, is going to see a more comprehensive amendment before Parliament in the autumn, we look forward to a full settlement at last. In the meantime, however, until this happens, we would like to draw attention to the fact that, at the moment, they are very much looking forward to standardising drinking water prices, as there are huge differences in water prices between countries, between Western and Eastern Hungary and certain regions of the country. Therefore, this would certainly be a welcome step if it were to happen and everyone would have access to healthy drinking water at an affordable price, because unfortunately this is not the case at the moment. Once again, I would like to draw attention to justice, not to lump up waste water and insurance of access to drinking water for everyday living. Once again, we can support the bill and look forward to a comprehensive resolution of the sector. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the benches of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-11-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have now reached the end of the keynote speeches, and now we have the opportunity to have independent speeches and two-minute speeches from its representatives. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. I would like to address Mr János Volner of the Jobbik Group for a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-11-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have repeatedly drawn attention to the fact that, if the government wanted to intervene in one of the economic sectors, even if the aim could be appreciated, it would not only be appropriate to show this in the electoral programme, but it would be a measure to strengthen confidence in Hungarian politics, if the government were to declare in advance which sectors it would like to intervene in, and if it intervened, which economic policy toolbox would do so. I think it is important to say this because Jobbik has already stated openly in its 2010 election programme and in 2014 what strategic sectors are where we believe that active state presence and intervention are absolutely justified. [[8.40]] Fidesz kept it a secret. And the fact is that a measure that does not exactly increase confidence in economic policy is when the government is keeping secrets and then constantly changing the rules for years. We've been honest about this. There are strategic sectors in which we consider the state's active role to be very important, and we consider the Community's objectives as a priority over private capital's hunger for profit. For example, how people get access to natural gas. Do different private companies play a role in the natural gas market at all? The government set up their own party, called MET, the natural gas company that got into a fight with the top 10 dividend-paying companies. We managed to get that sector to the economic circles close to the Prime Minister. How's the power market? Here again, we can only see that the Oligarchs near Fidesz - we know these names well - trade electricity and make a very good profit in the market where the price of electricity could otherwise be reduced if we led these private players out of the market and transformed the system. Drinking water is an area where there's an awful lot of crap to hear here. My fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, says that the profit appetite of the service provider depended on how much he contracted with customers, how much he provided water. For example, I can understand that, let's say, in a densely populated settlement like Budapest, the service provider is able to create drinking water cheaper than, say, where I live, not because of its profit hunger, but because of its cost. I'm a man living on a farm, 60 percent of our settlement lives on a farm. Of course, water gets to me more expensively, but I also think it is very important that we unite prices because people in our neighborhood, for example, would not be able to pay even the cost if we really wanted to deliver water to them at cost. So once again, we consider state intervention justified. The network service is, as a matter of fact, similar again, where the company providing it must operate in the Community. Once again, we see something similar in the field of waste management; so there are strategic sectors where the role of the state is, in our view, very important and unavoidable. By the way, when we have raised the question of free internet, a minimum bandwidth with a certain availability, we must increasingly classify the digital utility as one of the most important things. I also think it is important to say what my fellow Member Lajos Kepli has said, and it has been mentioned several times among our policy efforts that now, if someone owns a 500-600 or even a thousand-square-metre house, he has a significantly larger share of the benefits of the reduction - which he practically does not need - as a person who has a problem with paying his daily bills. And indeed, not only do we consider it socially acceptable, but it would also reduce the social damage to government economic policy if it were introduced that if someone had a lower consumption, obviously the poor people in general would consume less, they were not the ones who needed water in the swimming pool, but the pot or glass, then these people could get a little more from the benefits of the reduction than, let us say, those who are practically not in need with many consumptions. So we should finally regroup some of the income towards the poorer. This would be justified only because, if my fellow Members look at Eurostat data, the various figures of the European Union statistical office, it is possible to see that the number of poor people in Hungary has increased in comparison to the election victory of Fidesz in 2010. Now 33.5 percent of the population counts as poor people, and nine things have been named as criteria for poverty and extreme poverty. There are four of them, to which the poor people in Hungary, who account for more than a quarter of the population, do not get access. For example, good quality drinking water or meat consumption and similar things, so we are talking about very basic things, and unfortunately, we can see the crisis in this area. The question here is whether the government would like to do something in order to ensure that poor people, those who are really at stake for survival, receive a higher contribution from the cost of the reduction of the rent. I also consider it important that, once a Community-owned system is set up in the field of drinking water at national level, the criteria for network development should be clear. It should not be that the network is being developed on the basis of different lobbying interests, because on the one hand, the concern has emerged in several other sectors affected by the reduction of the rent that the government is not in practice reimbursing even depreciation, some sectors are falling apart. This is where it is worth looking at the investment rates in the energy sector since 2010; with a noble simplicity, companies did not put enough money into Hungarian electricity production, for example, and therefore the share of import prices has skyrocketed. Now, during the summer period, for example, more than half of the Hungarian electricity consumption will come from abroad, because the power plants have stopped, they have failed, hundreds of people have been laid off. Of course, unfortunately, this is the harmful effect of the reduction of the overhead, and the economic policy that has not been considered has its cost. The other very important thing is, on the one hand, to make it clear exactly what principles network development is taking place and, on the other hand, to ensure that networks are modernised at all. Clearly, the government is currently trying to save money on the fact that the sectors affected by the reduction of the rent... - because the government's economic policy is, to put it mildly, untalented, so that there is insufficient tax revenue to replace these depreciation costs and that some sectors are significantly reduced. Yeah, in these things too, I think we should be clear. Last but not least, I would like to ask the government to implement the policy of reducing costs in a sustainable way, and the Hungarian social and economic processes alone are not sustainable. The excuses that we have made here, I think, are well-founded, and professionally, we have pointed out their contradictions in government policy, which marked the reduction of the overhead. So I ask my fellow Members from the government side to be kind, either now or later, to incorporate them into the government's proposals. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-11-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Zsolt Szabó State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-11-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I always listen to these debates with interest, because I often hear new thoughts other than those set out in the law and opened chapters, and I am very happy to hear them. I like to talk about practical life. Perhaps I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Anita Heringes very much for the words that she has repeatedly supported my thinking that a comprehensive amendment is necessary professionally in the autumn, when we are transforming the elements of a huge system in which all priority public services are included, so that it is a perfectly functioning system. I'll tell you things about that. For example, I also agree that GDP, i.e. the value generated, if you like, distance and so-called population density are important in these costs. However, I do not agree with some of its cost accounting ideas. I have a feeling - I wanted to talk about it the other day - hearing certain compositions of words, that they will receive information from the inside and from the inside, but they will not tell you the full reality. So my request is to talk about it professionally. I would be very happy to tell you in advance what and how we think about the future, quite clearly. The government's intentions are pure. We don't want a water utility provider in Pécs. We want a nationwide, cooperative, solidarity-based system in which everyone has a place in every form. [[8.50]] Some thoughts and things; and later on, I will also respond to the thoughts of my fellow Member Volner. It's a renovation. Please, ladies and gentlemen, tell me: when there was no reduction in the rent, everything worked, everyone was able to sell their public services freely, was the development more? Everyone was thinking in the same way, and they were trying to improve it in the same way. In fact, depreciation, which, we know very well, is a cash flow, a financial result, has been used in the same way and has not been developed. Today, there are water utility providers that are developing, and today there is also a water utility provider - then look at the indirect costs of the general costs - which is still spending double the money. Now, they must be prevented, this must be regulated, so that they do not expend that extra money, but turn it back to, for example, development. So I think that farming needs to be tidyed up. I would like to point out that there are 42 water utility providers compared to the previous hundreds. We're trying to think and work in a rational direction. The other thing I'd like to say is that you're an amendment to the law. We have opened some chapters, not all of them - consciously, which is very important, and had to move very quickly, drawn up and established - and we do not want to open this again. What have we opened? On the one hand, the question of price formation. There are many places where the investment is completed, for example, the trial period for a sewer investment, and there is simply no charge, because, say, it turns out that there is no accounting policy for that municipality. So there are problems that need to be fixed, and that's why this regulation happened. The second is the question of district offices on the subject of service recipients. Many thought that later they would tie me to a development at a lower price. Well, these systems need to be restored. If there's a sewer project somewhere, the water supply scissors are narrowing, we'll use it and fix it. On the other hand, we agree that a price should be set that is manageable and affordable for the population in a single system of solidarity at national level. Once again, I can only offer to bring back this material professionally and logically in the autumn period, extending the elements of system organization that we are working on, to renegotiate this matter, and to these questions that have now been raised, then we can answer and put the system together. We do not want to rush, we do not want to build a system that will not work, but we want to build a well-functioning system together in all priority public services. Congressman Volner: in terms of economic professionalism, what will you do, Mr President, with questions that, say, are not yet known in the election campaign, and then will they be created in economic life in the next second? You have to respond to these. What we are trying to achieve is that the government's aim is to move the country's economic responsiveness and stability in the direction that if such a problem arises, it can react and act at that moment. That's the intention. Unfortunately, there are things - they come on a daily basis, you know what I think about whether in the area of exchange rate or in the area of bankruptcy of different companies, Quaestor and other things, but in the area of banks at any time - that the government has to respond to, we cannot predict what will happen. Moreover, professional work and social consultations are ongoing - I refer to the water utility - it is not an easy thing when we conduct this process, but the intention is to make it okay. Depreciation is an interesting question that you said. On the one hand, if you think about it, when everyone was working freely, like on the water utility market, there was no replacement. Will the government give you money for amortization? On the one hand, this is a hidden support, and on the other hand, I disagree with it. I think that a well-functioning water utility provider can produce and assemble it so that its operation can go well, because there is still a water utility provider in the country that operates in a null and void way, at the level of the balance sheet, not at the operational level, in Hungarian: the total budget, the total costs. And the question is, if you give someone, how do you give them? Here they are, I believe that the European Union's proposals, improvements, any water utility provider together with the local authorities can participate in them, and this legislation that we are now creating, which we are discussing today, serves the purpose of involving water utility providers professionally in this system. I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the amendment. This will help the process that is taking place this year in Hungary - I am thinking about the transfer of EU developments and proposals, for the sake of more orderly clarity, for the sake of public pricing - and we will discuss our new legislative proposals that will come to social consultation later on. I call for this amendment to be supported. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-11-14	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 today. Next up is the XXXIII of 2015 on the development of facilities for the implementation of the World Swimming, Waterball, Jumper, Artificial Swimming and Open Water Championships in Budapest. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Our fellow Members, Lajos Kósa and Bence Tuzson, have a separate motion T/5044. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. First, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tuzson, on behalf of the authors, in a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-11-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We have a very important bill on the table on a subject that we have already passed a law on, the 2015 XXXIII. Law on Hungary's ability to organise the World Water Championship in 2017. This is a very important event, because, as you know, Hungary has previously won the 2021 World Championship, but due to the withdrawal of Guadalajara, the Mexican city, the International Swimming Federation, FINA, has been in an awkward situation since there was no one to organise this World Championship. Hungary undertook to organize this international event four years earlier, but we had to do special things to do it, we had to create a right that would allow us to make an investment faster and more efficient than usual procedures, which is very important for everyone, Hungary. This world competition, as you know, is one of the world's largest world competitions, after the Olympics and the football World Championships, with 4 to 4.5 billion viewers. So it is important that in the 16 days when this world competition takes place in Hungary, what the world's citizens will see about Hungary, what the country's marketing will be like, since such an event is also a marketing event for a country, it is very good to introduce the country, to present the country's cultural and sporting life, and to make it attractive for others to come to Hungary as tourists or in other ways, to invest in Hungary and to have other sporting events. Accordingly, we must constantly monitor whether such a law, which we have created, can be properly enforced, especially if it is necessary to act so quickly. We would like to thank everyone in Parliament who supported, on the one hand, that this legislation could be drawn up very quickly in front of Parliament, so that Parliament was able to create this legislation and, on the other hand, that they supported the creation of this legislation, because this is what makes it possible for Hungary to really bring such an event, which will personally attract 250,000 people to Hungary, to arrange it. The process of organizing has started, the first steps have been taken that are necessary to make the investment itself, the choice of the contractor has been made, so we go according to the order of the Parliament's resolution, and what the Parliament has included in the law. [[9.00]] However, as in any such case, when a rapid series of events need to be followed up by legislation, it is also necessary to ensure that legislation is properly enforced, and if this legislation needs to be amended as quickly as possible in order to act so quickly, then Parliament should do so as quickly as possible. This is what is happening now, since a number of questions have been raised about this legislation, which has been identified in practical application. On the one hand, there is a need for amendments, since Balatonfüred is also included in the list of directors, which is why it is necessary to clarify this in the legislation; and for some real estate not previously covered by the legislation, but now it has become clear during the planning and during the settlement that it is necessary to include them in this legislation. It is a very important effort to bring such an event into the hands of one another. Therefore, it is important that a nonprofit company has already been established, whose primary task is to act both in relation to the organisation and the organisation, and to be the owner of such an event, since we all know that such an event works well when it is in one hand, it has an owner. We would like this clarification to be included in this law, i.e. it would be noted that this company is the director of this event, because this will allow the process of planning to work efficiently, well and quickly, and that, by 2017, which is a very short time, we all know that these investments should be made in a very short time - this event, all locations and all on-site facilities should be completed at the right time and for a good time. That's what we're trying to do. It is therefore important that some clarification is included in this legislation. We would like these clarifications to be accepted by the Parliament, and we would like all of Parliament's parties to support the amendment of this legislation along this line, because, as we have done earlier, we are pleased that we have been supported by a large number of people, and there is a kind of national unity on this issue, because we all know that it is an event of particular importance for the whole country. We also thank the parliamentary parties, who have delegated to this body, which deals with the organisation, as well as representatives, and with their valuable thoughts, they can contribute to ensuring that this event is organised as efficiently and as successfully as possible. I would also like to wish every Hungarian citizen, or recommend them, to come to the events of the water world, to look at these events, and if they can find out, to leave with an experience that, I think, for all of us who can be there, and who may be there at this event, will be decisive for our whole lives, and for those who come from abroad, as this event will make the reputation of this country grower. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-11-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State János Fónagy asked for the floor. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-11-17	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The history, history, history of the World Swimming, Waterball, Jumping, Artificial Swimming and Open Water Championships, the events that have taken place so far, and the national unity that has been manifested both between the walls of Parliament and in the implementation that has been carried out so far, were described and presented in detail by the Member representing the author, so that I would not repeat that. As regards the proposals made by our two fellow Members, this concerns practically four questions. One is to propose that the preamble be supplemented by an agreement with the International Swimming Association, to include in the law previously adopted by a large majority the designation of the organisation managing and operating the event, as well as the rights and obligations of this organisation. In order to ensure an adequate level of organisation of the event, we are expanding the sites, as Mr President has said, with Balatonfüred as agreed, where the Open Water Championship will take place, and it is therefore necessary to clarify the scope of the investment property covered by the law with Balatonfüred and Margaret Island. Here the proposal proposes to amend Annex 1 to the Act. All four proposals are important for the successful implementation of the World Cup. Therefore, these proposals are clearly supported by the government. We also consider it essential for the company to obtain the necessary goods and services in the context of the conduct and management of the settlement, with particular regard to urgency and compliance with the strict deadlines, through negotiated procedures without notice. It is essential to clarify clearly the range of properties and locations precisely because of the foregoing and to implement investment processes within the deadline. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, On this basis, the bill takes account of Hungary's key international sports diplomacy, tourism and economic interests, and, as I said, it is supported by the government, and I ask my fellow Members to do so. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-11-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor Hadházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-11-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Sport, as we have often stressed, is of paramount importance to our political family, not only to the body but also to the soul. It can also give us community and success experiences that are much more difficult to achieve in other areas. Regardless of values and political differences, the success of a national sports team should be welcomed, and we should not underestimate the positive energies released by such success experiences. We can draw energy from these in the gray everyday life and thus increase the efficiency of our work. And after many historical and social failures, we Hungarians especially need success experiences. We shouldn't be allowed to be called pessimists, people who just wave at everything, who say they don't. We must have the courage to take on and take on big things, to invest significant energy in things that we expect to achieve tangible results, joint success. However, sport, of course, benefits not only spiritually but also economically. The environment of sport, the sectors and industries it moves, and thousands, tens of thousands of people who work in sport, all benefit from it. Of course, I am not talking about the fur scandals and corruption, which is particularly relevant today. Fascinating the game in a negative sense, driven by material gain, does not serve the goals of sport, and even completely destroys it, because it kills the essence of sport, the pure competition, the stakes, thus disheartening both the athlete and the viewer. Therefore, we must act decisively and consistently against such processes, either at international, domestic or local level. However, the opportunities offered must be grasped, especially if there is good reason for it and our national interests so require. This is exactly the potential for the World Water Championship. As is known, Mexico and Guadalajara have withdrawn from the 2017 World Swimming, Waterball, Jumper, Artificial and Open Water Championships. This year, Budapest would have organized a youth water World Championship, as a rehearsal for the big water World Championship due in 2021. However, the withdrawal of Guadalajara created a new situation in which the country immediately saw and exploited the opportunity. [[9.10]] Budapest has indicated to the International Swimming Association of Water Sports, FINA, that it would be happy to take the stage instead of the two countries, and that new applications will be launched for the 2021 World Championship. Accordingly, the new floating arena originally planned for 2021, created by the expansion of the Tágály Swimming Pool, with a capacity of 12,000 persons, must be completed four years earlier, i.e. two years from now. The proposal before us is trying to deal with this situation. As you may recall, in order to speed up the implementation, the Parliament adopted the XXXIII of 2015. a law supplemented by this proposal with additional elements to address the practical issues raised in the preparation of the project and to include the necessary additions. The present proposal complements the preamble with the reference to the International Swimming Association Agreement on the basis of which the event is based. The organization which manages and manages the event, the Budapest 2017 World Championship Organizer and Nonprofit Ltd. will be designated at the statutory level, and the rights and obligations of this organization will also be recorded. In addition, the proposal expands the location of the event with Balatonfüred, which is why the 2015 XXXIII. Annex 1 to Act No. 1 adds additional real estate and landmarks. The law shall enter into force on the day following its publication, having regard to the close deadline. Dear Parliament, Now allow me to go a little further on the benefits and costs of the World Cup. First of all, the management of the 2017 water world will increase the ranking of Hungarian swimming sport. Dániel Gyurta or Katinka Long could swim on a home World Championship in two years. In addition, the Olympic competition on the agenda is also a major consideration, because if Budapest is great with such a level of event, which triggers the attention of the world in July 2017, it can also be a serious factor in the NOB decision in September 2017. Budapest and Hungary have organised a number of major sporting events in recent years, and international feedback on all of them has been positive, so we can rightly hope that this time the settlement will be impeccable again. Not only will the best of the floating world arrive in the Hungarian capital, but we will also organize the senior World Championship together. Budapest XIII. The six-storey swimming palace on the Danube bank of its district is expected to be one of the new attractions of Budapest. The building complex will serve not only for the time of the competition, but also for the longer term as the citadel of Hungarian swimming sport, as well as the XXI. In addition to competition sports, there will be a recreational centre of the century, including residential recreational sports and school swimming education. For the World Championship, the arena will be able to accommodate 12,000 viewers, and after the World Championship the audience will have 5,000 seats by breaking up some of the bleachers. Thanks to the pull-out roof above the racing pool, the building can be opened above, while the two-metre gapes of the golden waved glass facade will provide a view to the Buda panorama. Efficient operation is a key aspect of the designers' vision. The plan will place great emphasis on the use of renewable energy sources such as earth heat, thermal water and solar energy, such as thermal energy from pools and showers. Moreover, by walking through the energy sidewalks, visitors can contribute to the efficient operation of the building themselves. Since there was some uncertainty in public opinion about the costs of the investment, please allow me to inform this House about the expenditure on the basis of the Hungarian National Asset Manager's communication. Based on this, the construction of the swimming pool arena, together with the reserve envelope of HUF 2 billion, does not reach HUF 25 billion net. The total cost of investment and related urban development is HUF 34.4 billion net, which is a cover for a much more complex development than the swimming pool. The net HUF 34.4 billion includes the design and construction of the swimming pool arena - about HUF 24 billion without VAT - as well as the design, construction, design, construction of roads and parking spaces, replacement of public utilities and construction of a one-mile price barrier. The gross cost of the investment, increased by general sales tax, is thus HUF 48.7 billion, of which some HUF 10.3 billion is returned to the budget as VAT. The swimming pool itself is built of 22 billion, with 14-15 billion forints for environmental planning, transport development, dam construction and temporary bleachers. Two things were mixed in the news: the amount without VAT plus VAT, the construction costs of the floating arena and all other developments in the environment. The development is also part of a long-term urban development programme, which serves the growth of Budapest and Angelland. The construction of the swimming pool center is not only outstanding from a tourist point of view, but also the construction creates jobs for 5,000 people, while other taxes and contributions from the construction site reduce spending by billions more. In the swimming pool there will be two 50-meter pools, a diving pool, a children's pool and a Jacuzzi, as well as dressing rooms, service spaces, offices, competition court rooms. Dear Parliament, This is therefore an infrastructure development that will be for a specific purpose but can be used later. Small is what happens in the Olympics. If everything goes well, we will have the world's eyes in 2017, so I am convinced that everything that promotes the success of this competition will be superior to the parties. I therefore ask you to support this common national objective and the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-11-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the group of the MSZP is Mr Dezső Believer, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-06-11-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. In April, so nearly two months ago, we adopted the 2015 XXXIII. Law, and to be honest, when we passed this law, I had a feeling we'd be seeing this story again. I suppose I am not too surprised by this statement, at least not for those who have experienced, lived or organised major investments, as it was expected that, in the case of such an investment on such a scale, such a law, which we have adopted, would not be possible to settle any issue that requires a decision on the conduct of a series of events mentioned among the general public as the "water vb" event. So I wasn't surprised to see this again, but it was a bit so that it was done after two months, because the law which the Parliament adopted gave the government and the organising committee permissions that were completely unique and, in my opinion, unique in the history of Hungarian law. If we just sort of line up these licenses, although some of them have already been mentioned by the Secretary of State, then we can see that they are truly unique and special. In the case of public procurement, for example, it provides for a one-day deadline for administration and removes this type of activity from the minister's powers. Specific installation limits, flood protection, wood cutting and parking construction options were offered by this law, or the law offered special opportunities for demolition and land conversion, which are unique. If we add that the administrative deadline for public administration or public utilities is 5 days, and those who have already done this know that this is officially 60 days, but those who get away with 60 days are very happy, this 5 days is an opportunity to complete this time. [[9.20]] But I could list the special permissions and opportunities given to the jump tower or the temporary bleachers, which the organising committee will make good use of. And there was also a special driver's license, and this concerned the use of property related to the event. The first law indicated 43 such properties, and the scope of the law covers these 43 properties. I understand and I can accept that when there is a special, unique case, there is a need for specific and specific measures. I believe that this was such an event, and my fellow Members have analysed this for a longer time, how and how Hungary has had the opportunity to decide on this issue, and here the decision was to take up this extremely short deadline, which seems almost unbelievable. A unique situation requires individual decisions, and I have seen, along with the others, that Parliament has supported by a very large majority the existence of these individual measures. There are 43 properties that we have accepted, a significant part of which is XIII. is located in the district or on the shore of Lake Balaton, which is due to the fact that the site is mostly the XIII. in the district of Budapest and there are events that take place on the shore of Lake Balaton, in Fűzfő and in the area of Füred. I think that when we made this decision, this meant that we were absolutely confident for the government on this issue and for the organising committee. I am very confident that this trust will be maintained to the end, and that there will be no event that could call this into question. Let's look at this new proposal. One of the elements of the new proposal is that it amends the preamble. Technically, this is not a good practice. I understand why you're in here, maybe to think about it, make sure you're in the preamble. The preamble is not used to changing very much, the basic principles of the law in question are laid down here. I think the principle hasn't changed, I just got a contract, it's a legal thing, I've been told by competent lawyers that the preamble doesn't usually change, he himself couldn't say that. But it's really just a legal thing. I see that the new amendment proposal identifies a builder and a complicated one, and it also contains other clarifications, with which I think that there is nothing wrong with an investment, that is natural. He then lists another 50 properties, which I consider to be okay with us looking out for each other. I have two points to make on this matter. One is that in the first 43 real estates and in the case of the other 50 real estates, a very important definition has been omitted, and then, when we are amending this law now, perhaps we should take advantage of the possibility that it is here before the Parliament: it has no temporal effect. The original law states that the organisation committee and the government may have very special and extraordinary powers for these properties, which are included in Annex 1. These licenses are land use and other rights, and, if the property owners are unable to agree, there is also the possibility of expropriation. However, this does not have a timely effect. If the objective of this law is real, then this should be considered. I think that fixing the temporal scope of this at 31 December 2017 would be a normal and justified step, especially when it comes to properties that are privately owned, we do not unduly disturb it. That would be one of my suggestions, which I think you'd be lucky to think about. And the other thing about real estate: I took the trouble to look at the additional 50 properties that were included in the law, and where, I repeat, the state has very special and unique licenses. I sense that probably those who are involved in the organisation of this case are in a situation that is usually recorded in the common language as being scared-out, and I sense that right now. So it was probably that they bought a ruler and looked at the location of the crime scene, and they drew a line in the area, so that what's inside of it we need that area. This is how the entire Margaret Island and, in practice, the entire Pest Danube Beach from the Árpád Bridge to the Margaret Bridge and several properties above it. If my information is good - and this is likely to be a bicycle road and promenade, which, I think, is justified - then I am not entirely sure that all the properties that have been listed are necessary. I would prefer to strengthen those who deal with this matter to come to the Parliament with courage more or more, but only with concrete ideas, let us not usually deal with it, because now I have this feeling that at least 6-8 real estates have been unduly included in the 50 properties, and this unduly limits the ability of owners to live in their own property. So I understand the idea that I want to ensure the real estate necessary for the operation as soon as possible, that everything is available there, but I think that we have time to think about this now, that we really need all the real estate, and that we should only register or give the government the opportunity to register these special options where it is really needed. These would be two of my proposals to consider, which, in my view, can be accepted by the presenters, and I would ask that this remain the cooperation that was in place in the design of the original law, and, in the course of the amendment, I would ask you to take these into account. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-11-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr József Attila Móring, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-11-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The organisation of such a worldwide sporting event, I think, has an excellent advertising value and gives the city, the region where it takes place a huge opportunity, and therefore the appearance of Lake Balaton, the inclusion of Balatonfüred among the sites, must be supported. The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party supports the presentation. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-11-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the keynote speeches. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr György Szilágyi. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-11-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, The World Championships of Swimming, Waterball, Jumper, Artificial Swimming and Open Water, which will take place in Budapest in 2017, are an important event for both Hungary and Hungarian water sports. In addition to the fact that the event is a great opportunity for the country, it also results in a multi-tasking set of tasks, which are very limited in time to perform. According to the amending proposal before us, these tasks will be entrusted to a farmer who should work specifically and exclusively to ensure that the tasks are fully carried out within the time limit available. It should never be a problem if a task has a designated responsibility, but it is a concern that the person responsible can determine the tasks for himself. According to the text of the proposal, point 2 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 3 gives the person responsible for the execution the authority to determine the details of his duties. This turn of events, in my view, may give rise to misunderstandings and make it significantly difficult to monitor and monitor the project at a later stage. It remains an important question of the lack of guarantee elements as to what opportunities and instruments are available in the event of the investment being put at risk, and how it can be verified by the implementation and by whom. The authors wish to have a blank cheque signed with the Honourable House, without express assurance of the possibility of verification. [[9.30]] The World Water Championship in 2017 will undoubtedly be Hungary's largest sporting event. Not only for the organisers themselves, but for the whole country, including us, Members of Parliament, we must do everything we can to achieve it successfully. The Parliament's task lies in legislation. The T/5044. Unfortunately, the bill tabled shows an eloquent example of the fact that although we are beyond the successful tender, the most difficult part of the organisation is yet to come: implementation. We're not good at this so far. Due to the relatively short deadline, the best and most accurate laws should be written and adopted by the Parliament. The bill referred to by me has the 100% state-owned Bp2017 World Championship Organizer and Compilator Nonprofit Kft. The following text can be read as a function of the establishment of the Kft. as the manager and manager of the project and is also obliged to define in detail the tasks necessary for the implementation of the project and to conclude procurement and, where necessary, other contracts for the purpose of carrying out them. The biggest cost of the World Championship project is the construction of swimming pools and infrastructure investments and improvements. We believe that this type of cft is basically justified and necessary. The problem is the law. It's not clear from the wording of the law that it's a cvt. whether it will also carry out organisational or investment tasks. If we are talking about full-scale state-owned Kft., which also supervises constructions and investments, then there is no definition of the responsibilities, the order of office. The cvt. who will be responsible for the organization, or who will have permissions to organise it? These are very important issues, because it would be very important for this World Cup to be organised with an important control of where this investment is going and how it will be implemented at all. My next question is about property to be expropriated. It is useful and necessary to list and include these properties in the law. But there is also a major problem here as to the time limit for property expropriation. After all, time flies and construction begins. I would recommend that the law also provide for deadlines which are consistent with the schedule set by the organisation committee of the Swimming World. And one more thing about real estate. The last time we discussed in Parliament the areas of asset management that were distributed to various associations, and when there was a five-party agreement on the previous 43 properties, we asked for it, and I think we could expect so much now, so much that I could help Members to write a brief explanation behind the location numbers of the area at all, and how this area is related to this project, why this area had to be involved. And you agreed then, and we have also received a promise from the Secretary of State that, of course, you will do so in the future. After all, we mentioned that 50 local figures were listed here in an annex; I don't think there is anything to hide, because after the five-party arrangement, at those 43 real estates, Balázs Fürjes gave us the details of which real estates, we even received maps. So that would be a help. I would like to ask you that if, in the future, such legislative proposals and annexes come before the Parliament, you should be kind enough to give a very short explanation, with a very short description, as to why these properties should be included in this circle. The other thing is very important, and I have said this here that we need to work together, because only then can we arrange a successful World Championship. I feel that it is very important for Hungary to have a successful World Championship, because we are talking about a very important international event. I am also sure, because Hungarian people are talented, hard-working, and they also like sports, that there will be no problem in organising the World Championship in this area. Which may be a problem, and I hope that it will not be a problem here, because we have a huge responsibility, both for us and for the organising committee, and for everyone involved in this world championship, that is implementation. It is very important that this world championship be achieved without any scandal. There should be no signs of foul play or corruption, that we really spend what we spend on this world championship with taxpayers' money, indeed, on this world championship. Don't overinvoicing, don't do anything that could cause scandals. This is only important because the MOB decided to apply for the 2024 Olympics. Even the 2024 Olympics, at the moment I feel they have a very strong support in society. But it is very important that, with the 2017 water world, this good approach, with which society, even a society living at a low economic level and living standards, supports such important events - an Olympic settlement can be measured over a thousand billion by the time we win the tender - do not spoil it. Don't spoil, let's say, a bad wet world view of what Hungarian society has today. It's a small matter, we can learn from the past again, it can ruin it. After all, if someone has looked at the fact that the Hungarian Olympic Committee is going to apply for the 2024 Olympic and Paralympic Games, then one has a bit of a bad taste in the mouth. Because the word "paralympic" is in there. And in the last month, Zsolt Gömöri, chairman of the Paralympic Committee, has done so much harm to the Paralympic movement, which I think is invaluable. But only one person, with a little help, was supported by Tamás Deutsch with his suggestions, but one man's actions can do a lot of harm to an entire movement and to the perception of the entire movement. These are really important issues, so I would like to propose to the Government that I would like to propose to everyone who is involved in the work, organisation and everything else in relation to the World Cup, so that the most important thing is control. With very close control, with very close control, constantly striving to make this a completely clean world championship, so also in implementation, we will increase even more the value that this will mean for Hungary. The Jobbik for Hungary Movement, whether it lists its criticisms or comments or advice in these debates, will, of course, support any initiative that is realistic in relation to the water world, a necessary and normal initiative for implementation, a bill. So this bill will, of course, be supported by the Jobbik Hungary Movement. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-11-26	Thank you very much, Congressman. With this speech, we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. The first independent representatives will now take part. I give the floor to Congressman Szabó Szabolcs. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-11-27	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It has indeed been said that we voted on this bill not too long ago, perhaps two months ago, which my two fellow Members would like to amend. We voted for it then, because basically the water world itself, to use the common language version, we consider it a good, forward-looking sporting event. We supported it, even though we knew very well what my fellow Members have already said here, that we had to make a significant improvement in the timing of the settlement, so we had to create very specific, very specific rules for the investments needed to carry out the event. And you always give a bad taste to authorize, of course, an exemption from the normal administrative procedure, the public procurement procedure and the rest. But we were perfectly well-meaning, benevolently saying that, of course, water vb is very important, because there are sports traditions in Hungary, the traditions of these sports in Hungary. This is an especially watched, high-advertising sports event in the world, perhaps the third-fourth most important and most watched sporting event. This will be very important for Budapest, Hungary, that it will be on television, everywhere in the world, and it will really be watched by hundreds of millions of viewers. [[9.40]] We have therefore said that it is okay, even if we really have to adopt these specific rules, and even if we ourselves have not seen an impact study or a recovery study. The problem begins when the costs start to grow nicely. So when the settlement came up, and when we originally voted on this bill two months ago, the Hungarian Swimming Association said it would cost 23 billion forints, right, then it became 25. It was not said that it was a net amount, it was said that it would cost 23 billion forints and then 25 billion forints later. This includes the original idea of building a new swimming pool in the Highlands, all kinds of additional infrastructure development, such as the renovation of the Hajós Alfréd Swimming Pool, the renovation of the Balatonfüred areas, so all the costs needed specifically for organizing and operating. Then, not so much later, even after the adoption of the law, Balázs Fürjes, the government commissioner responsible for the investment or the project - if I remember his position and status correctly - mentioned HUF 30-32 billion. Then suddenly it became 49 billion, which, of course, was subsequently explained as gross and non-net, and 25 was net and not gross, and they were trying to refine it a little bit, but if we play this gross-net game, it also means that the cost has increased more than one and a half times, but in fact, let's be honest, the cost has doubled. And then, of course, you always start to think about why the cost will double in a few weeks, and indeed, there is the dog buried, what my fellow Member Dezső Believable said, not that there are some geographic numbers, some real estate. From point 44 to point 94, in Annex 1, the number or number of the location numbers that are attached to the special procedure circle is doubled, so there is virtually no limit to what extent - since there is no law - they can do anything, so there is nothing to limit it there. That's why it bothers me in the first place, I'd be a land and settlement developer in terms of my original qualifications, and I know very well that this is not how we develop the city. The way urban development works is to think about creating a concept, go through a very thorough conciliation process, this has a social and professional negotiation process, and then we start. They are now rebuilding the Danube coast of Pest, not from the Margaret Bridge to the Árpád Bridge, from the iron shoes up to the northern part of the island of Shipyard or to the height of the Pest quay, plus the slightly deeper area, plus the entire Margaret Island; I have calculated, because the location numbers can be requested, a map can be drawn from it, calculated, this is three square kilometres of area that is now added. Part of this is water - due to the characteristics of the definition of the land map numbers, the Danube bed is included in these 3 square kilometres - but still more than half of it is land, that is, the Danube coast. Even part of the Róbert Károly tour is included anyway, I'm just signaling, and we don't know anything about what they want to build there, and they can actually do anything. It would have been nice to clarify this first, what they would like to do there, and specifically named, as Dezső Believing says, if it's a bike ride, then let's put in a bike ride. I wouldn't want to see 30 meters of towers on the Danube bank, for example. Under the current law, if someone wakes up in the morning and wants to build jump towers every ten meters, they could do so. I know this isn't gonna happen. [[Dr. János Fónagy: Then why say it?]] The problem is, like I said, urban development doesn't work that way. If someone comes to Budapest, the point is that they see the areas on the Danube coast, they can now fundamentally, decisively transform it, and this is what 25 billion is practically for. There's supposed to be a bridge, as it turns out, a pedestrian bridge, but we don't know anything about that either. There is no news of these developments, no information, not even a visual design, which is usually made for such investments. That's why I'm saying it would be nice to consider this a little bit, because it's not normal procedure. Indeed, as has been said here by my fellow Member Szilágyi, another point in the amendment of the law is a bit strange, as tasks and powers are mixed in a rather interesting way in this particular company, where implementation, organisation and control are actually mixed in a very strange way, and it is probably worth clarifying. I would also like to respond to what my fellow Member Szilágyi has said, because this is not the first time that an amending proposal is coming in - I have already seen it at the committee meeting - and they are putting forward an amendment there, for example, on the spot, Fidesz colleagues, they list a number of seats, so that this proposal, let us vote on it, but we do not even know what kind of building it is, and when you ask it, the answer is often, yeah, well, as a national, I don't know, you know how it works, we represent a group post, I was told that I would put it up, and we look there and we vote on things that we don't know anything about it. That's why it's a problem when there's nothing in the annex to the law but the geography numbers. At least it would have been a good idea to agree on specific areas, which buildings, which areas are affected. At least one map shall be attached to the Annex to the Act or to the explanatory memorandum. It's not that complicated. I'd just like to show it to my fellow Members. [[He's showing me a map.]] That's all that should have been attached in such a case, and you could have seen that from the iron shoes up to the north of the island of Shipyard. Such a map should always be attached to such investments, and then everyone would have the idea of double the budget for this event. In order to avoid misunderstandings, I would like to emphasise once again that we are fully in favour of the water world, even if I have no problem with renovating these areas, all right, let's do it in normal procedures, because urban development, with emphasis, once again, works this way. It is not necessarily necessary to renovate these areas in order to organize the water vb, I would like to indicate. There was a swimmer in Hungary, for example-- Eb in 2006, if I remember correctly, we could arrange it very well without it. We don't have to waste time fixing these areas for another year or two to get this done properly. Or, if you think it is very important, it should be concrete, and the amending proposal should also be very, very specific. How wide is the bike ride, how long will it take, how technically will it look, specifically, how much will it cost? - we don't know anything about him. At least I don't know anything, and I didn't hear anything about it here in the debate. Just to refer back to 2006 if I remember correctly the swimming-Eb in 2006, for example, I remember that the Combinos had some problems with the doors, which is why the Combinos didn't even go, let's say, in that period, even though it could have been said that the Combinos would be given a special dispensation, because it's more comfortable and air conditioning. It was possible with the industrial articulated trams, and we did the swimming-Eb very well, and the swimming association organized this very well, and the viewers were able to travel there. I think that, by the way, the viewers will be able to get there without rebuilding these wharf areas with such exceptional rules, and without it, it can be arranged very well, but I say, if you feel the need, let us name it and name it precisely. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that this is also disturbing because the budget is doubled, because Hungary is not a rich country, so every forint has its place. The debate on the budget is going on now, and there are very often serious debates about almost millions of items of the order of 100 million, and here we simply put something on the organization in the order of 10 billion forints, some amount for the execution, and we do not know what this is going to do. So this should be handled very carefully, and, moreover, what my fellow Member has mentioned here is also disturbing because they are now talking about the Olympics in Hungary, the Hungarian Olympic Committee, and we are increasingly hearing the impact of this in political parties. If we manage the budget so casually - budget? - We didn't even see a budget, if we manage costs so lightly, and the frames change so flexibly, then where will it run off to? ! [[9.50]] This has to be handled very carefully. Therefore, I would ask the rapporteur to clarify very carefully in this proposal exactly what the part of Annex 1 from point 44 to point 94 is intended to mean and to include specifically what they intend to build there. I think it's clear, then it's clear, it's totally acceptable. Because, by the way, the event itself, let's be honest, can also be organised on the basis of the original bill now in force, so it does not necessarily have to be amended. But if they do that these tasks are specifically defined, we can support them. If you don't, I'll tell you honestly, I don't want to give anybody a blank check to figure out something in the morning and start building it the next day, because that's almost what we're talking about. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-06-11-28	Thank you very much, Congressman. For a proper speech from the Fidesz Group, Mr Béla Turi-Kovács has applied. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-11-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. When I applied in writing yesterday for today's speech, someone asked me back: it was just a law of a few stages, for what reason I am applying for a speech right now. Dear House, Mr President, Please allow me to make a short personal detour. Swimming in my life was a defining time. After 1956, a few years of swimming education, children and young seedlings gave my life the meaning of my life. This may have been the most effective and useful period of my life. That's why I'm biased against swimming, and I have to tell you this. If today, however, I am going to make comments that are not going entirely in this field, then I am not going to say it, but I am going to say it to the citizens of small farmers, the national one, and I must say that I may still want to convey the thoughts of a folk-minded formation. Some people smile a lot when I say this, but accept that we are in this House in diversity, and we are in this House. What is it I want to tell you about the World Swimming Championship? The history is obviously that Mexico has withdrawn from the option for such reasons. For some reason, Mexico, which has a much higher number of souls than Hungary, considered it to be in his own interest - by the way, close to the United States, the capital of swimming sports - that this was not in his interest. In Hungary, a quick decision was made, and in my view the right decision was made, but this quick decision could not and could not think about many aspects. This will be an important event for Hungarian swimming sport, an event of great importance for Budapest. Investment will take place here, and new opportunities will be made in this richest, most capable part of the country. Now you have to think about how to make use of this in such a way that people not only feel the positive that we hope this world championship can bring, but also in Baz County and BAZ County, and let them feel it in South Baranya. Let people think that while they're not building this for us right now, that's what we're gonna benefit from, we're gonna benefit from it, because we're part of the nation. The wording of this is yet to come, but I must say that it must happen. This is one of the reasons why I signed up for the speech. The other thing is just as important. I have no doubt that the leaders of Hungarian swimming sports are prepared to hold a successful World Championship in Hungary. If we get to the point where the facilities are already standing, that the investment has already been completed, that the World Cup has already started, then I have no particular doubts about its success. I also accept that this will have a worldwide echo, But let's stop here for a second. In order for this global echo to not be really negative from anywhere, the intermediate time must pass well. The investments, and during the duration of the investment, this whole business, since it is a major undertaking for Hungary, cannot be least affected by the fact that the conditions surrounding the investment are clear, that the people around the investment are really doing their job with integrity, that indeed a situation will develop when we can say, yes, it was a good investment, and Hungary will win. What do you need for that? First of all, you have to be very careful when you start. What that kft we're talking about here is going to determine a lot of things. Therefore, I propose - not to my fellow members of the opposition, but to my fellow members of the government - that we pay close attention to this. stand up in a way that will eventually be impeccable. And it is also very important that the government has a separate responsibility in this whole investment, because the whole opportunity itself started as a government action. Therefore, this responsibility cannot be passed on to Kft., in this respect the government's responsibility remains and persists all the time. I hope that it will also be possible in 2017 to sweep the results, but it will require a firm, close and hard monitoring. You can't let go of the reins while you're going, but you have to keep an eye on every step of the way. Hands, legs and heads should be watched, and if necessary, the situation that is undoubtedly being invested in a national interest must be made clear at all. Dear House, I think that this enterprise - we can now talk about 23 or 40 billion, we can talk about VAT and many things, but it is a fact - requires a significant amount of money from the budget for the country. This is not comparable to investments and constructions, to the use of resources, which are predominantly made using EU funds. This will take place from Hungarian sources, so the responsibility I was just talking about is exclusively domestic. What can be done to make them feel that this is theirs everywhere - in Mezőtúr, Gyomaendrőd, and elsewhere? A lot, from the very first moment on, a lot. If it's just XIII. for the district, and for certain parts of Budapest, it will be difficult for the Hungarian countryside to digest. But if it is clear that the resulting benefits - let us also speak clearly of pecupine issues - will also reach these areas, and we will not only mention, but also state, these ways, the aid can indeed be wide-ranging. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Today I feel that this support is far from what we are talking about in this narrow circle; in a very narrow circle, who can see us today, only the one who wants to look at the Internet. So, in the narrow circle where we're talking, there's a lot of support, it's very visible, there's a common support. I am very happy about this as a former lifeguard, swimming instructor, I am very glad that there is something that will do for Hungarian swimming. But it's not enough! This will require support from all Hungarian people whose own tax forints will be involved in this investment. I would like to draw attention to another important issue that no one has ever mentioned before, even though I thought this would come up on the subject of XIII. for the wards. [[10.00]] The tide is not simply a spa, the tide is a folk bath, which I can prove for a long, long decades, I served there at the time - used by people who are small, who receive simple services there, but those are satisfactory services, with excellent water and excellent opportunity. Will there be, and what will be in his place? If there's any other possibility, you have to think about it. Budapest is a spa town. You may just have to think about where you can replace this, where you have the same situation in Budapest, the same little man in Budapest, that pensioner, that old man can leave, and get at an affordable price a service that benefits his health, which is a pleasant and good time, which he has long deserved, and which he can afford for his part. Dear House, It is therefore a complex question, and these are also the few paragraphs that are before us. Hungary has a great opportunity, it is our joint task to make use of this great opportunity. It seems to me that there is an exceptional situation where the opposition wants something that we want to achieve in the interests of the nation, but the responsibility on the part of the majority cannot be shifted to know, examine and serve as best as possible all the odes and details of this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-11-30	Welcome, fellow Members. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application, so the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Tuzson Bence if he wishes to comment as rapporteur. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to the congressman.
u2015-06-11-31	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. A number of questions have been raised here in the debate, which also shows that these comments are very valuable and are forward-looking, and it is very good that many things have already been discussed in the five-party negotiations and that we have the opportunity to incorporate these proposals into the law. There will soon be a meeting of the TAB, which will also address this issue, and there are already a number of issues that we have discussed here. But allow me to draw your attention to a few things. Our fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács said a very important thing that I think we should stress: it must be an investment that there is no doubt about, in such a way that any suspicions of abuse can not be attached to this, so we, as government representatives and opposition representatives, must act and act in such a way as to exclude this possibility as far as possible, both in the creation of this right and in the cooperation that will characterize everyone in the process of implementation. Some questions have been raised, which I would like to draw attention to. On the one hand, there was a very important remark as to how these real estates would develop, how other real estate would be included in this investment, and why we had not actually made progress in the planning process. I would like to make it clear that we are not sewing the coat against the button, so at the moment there is a legislative process, and in this legislative process we are laying down the framework between which an investment can take place, that is to say, let us not rush ahead in the realization of the investment, so that we put into the legislation what should otherwise be implemented afterwards. So there is a staircase, an important order: first we create the legal framework, and then we can add other urban planning issues, such as plans, blueprints and similar things. A few more questions have been raised here in the debate, which is also to be answered, and it is good to come back to it for a sentence or two. Here the relationship between the project company and the MNV was raised as a question of how the investor and the organizer themselves are separated from each other. The legislation itself separates the investment and the organisation itself; it assigns the MNV to the investment as an asset manager, i.e. who carries out the investment itself, and the organizer is the project company in this respect. If, for some reason, this is not clear, then it must still be brought up in the Legislative Committee, but I think that this is, by the way, clearly apparent from the legislation, if for some reason it is not, then this must be dealt with. Otherwise, the legislation makes a difference in this respect. In terms of liability conditions, there is a complex liability system in Hungary. A number of legislation regulates this liability system. Obviously, starting with the law on national assets, let us say, through the Civil Code, this legislation also defines certain liability conditions, so it is indeed a complex liability system, which is quite well defined in terms of state assets as to who is responsible for what. If there are still elements in this regard that are not clear, although I believe that this is a coherent system, Hungarian law contains a well-developed liability system in this regard, it is a coherent system, so the responsibilities in this respect are quite clear. A blank check, not a blank check is a license for nonprofit. The point that is important in this area is that the proposal concerning the preamble is that it is not a coincidence that the contract itself, which is the basis for this investment, will be included in the preamble, because it is within the framework of which this company is authorised. So there's this kind of connection. This is rather the answer to the question of Mr Szilágyi, although it also answers the question of the Member who is a believer. Indeed, a preamble usually defines the basics. We are also faced with a specific legislation here, in the sense that we had to create a legislation in a rather urgent procedure, which also results in the fact that things that were not yet available that were later discovered, but which lay the foundations for the investment. Therefore, at such a level, they are actually making a point of principle, which is why a reference to such an agreement should be returned to the preamble itself, because it defines the purpose of the legislation and, on this basis, also other authorisations, which are, by the way, authorisations for non-profit Ltd. As I have just said, the important question is that Parliament's parties are practically all in favour of this investment and that it can be realised, and we are not having a debate here in Parliament in principle on whether or not such an investment should be carried out. So, with the fundamental aim of the law, both in the case of the original legislation and in the case of this legislation, we all agree, and it is very important that we hold on to the capital city in this regard, in particular with regard to Article XIII. This can only be successful - it is a national issue - if everyone is in favour of it. That is why it is important that, let us say, put our heads together, that we all make the proposals that may still be necessary for this legislation, and that before the Legislative Committee, which will soon meet or even be in session, we make the proposals that are necessary for this legislation to be complete, and that we get a clear picture of how the investment will take place and give a clear picture to society. Although not part of this legislative process, the question of the amount of investment has been raised here. I just want to clarify a very simple question. According to the original proposal, a sum of 21.4 billion was made, which was the amount related to the construction of the swimming pool, and the most important amount related to the main part of the facility, and these were added mainly because of flood protection. Here is a plan amount of around 1.5 billion, a 14 billion-dollar amount, which is... - we consider the project to be uniform, so we also need to include flood protection in this area, and there is a reserve of about 1 billion-dollar magnitude, which is not a particularly large rate compared to the size of the investment, and there is also a VAT of the magnitude of 10 billion-dollar in this investment, which flows back from the budget to another branch, i.e. it appears as an expense, but it flows back into the budget on the VAT side. That's how we deal with these numbers. So let's say, the basic amounts, which are the basis for the investment... - so the investment amount specifically linked to the sports facility has not changed, this investment, given that there is more to it, includes a wider investment, flood protection facilities, and therefore it is important that we manage this in a uniform way. It could have been divided into two, but it is indeed justified that if such an investment was made, the corresponding investments which would otherwise be needed should also be made. [[10.10]] This is how the amount of construction money is put together, which is indeed a significant amount of money, a major investment for a country. A serious investment is accompanied by a serious opportunity, as I said at the outset. This is an opportunity for the country that is unique, because we are really talking about the third most viewed sporting event in the world. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-11-32	Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. There will be a general debate on the bill to amend the laws affecting certain state assets until closure. The submission is T/4853. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. János Fónagy, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-06-11-33	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The government's aim is to carry out the tasks undertaken in the interests of the community at the highest possible level and with outstanding efficiency. Accordingly, we pay particular attention to the use of the best solutions and modern technologies in the provision of tasks. These requirements must also be fully respected in the management of public assets. Therefore, according to the current needs of the information society, the government proposes that Magyar Nemzeti Vagyonkezelő Zrt. build and operate an electronic auction system. To this end, it may make a flexible and continuous sale of public assets intended for sale, in particular movable property which is difficult to use in the current proceedings. MNV Zrt. as a central player in the management of state assets, it obtains a large amount of estate assets as heirs of the State. Among other things, these, as well as the sale of purchased and obsolete stocks, will be achieved through the new electronic system. MNV Zrt. In the electronic auction system which it intends to operate, all public assets, other than those which are intended for sale, will be eligible under special agreements concluded with additional holders of ownership rights, in addition to the appropriate legal guarantees. The proposed electronic auction system has a number of advantages over current sales practices. Among these, I highlight the minimum cost of operation, the low demand for human resources, as well as much more publicity than the auctions announced and carried out on the traditional route. The electronic auction system is expected to be an effective tool for the large-scale sale of current static state movable assets, contributing to the growth of GDP through the social use of budgetary revenues and non-use state assets. The introduction of the electronic auction system is also supported by the fact that the National Tax and Customs Office and the Hungarian Chamber of Executives have been operating with good results for many years. The bill also includes further amendments to rationalise and increase the efficiency of public asset management. For example, it is important that the transfer of state assets between bodies exercising ownership rights on behalf of the State can take place as flexible as possible, thus simplifying the implementation of asset management tasks. In this spirit, the bill would broaden the possibilities for transfer of assets to facilitate the provision of public tasks. The purpose of the amendment is to make better use of the assets entrusted to holders of ownership rights which already have a significant portfolio. Dear Parliament, With the adoption of the bill, it will be possible to make the operation of state wealth management more efficient and rational, and to quickly and fully transparently sell the wealth that has become necessary for the task of public bodies, in accordance with the requirements of today's day. Therefore, I ask the Honourable Parliament once again that the T/4853. Please support bill number 1. Thank you for your attention. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2015-06-11-34	Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Péter Cseresnyés, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-11-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us will speed up certain asset management mechanisms that are necessary to make public asset management more efficient. Accordingly, the use of modern electronic technologies has become timely, first by adapting the sale of state assets to the needs of the information society. MNV Zrt. in the capacity of heirs of the State, obtains a large amount of legacy property. The sale of these movables and the sale of purchased and obsolete stocks may take place through the new electronic system. In addition, the effectiveness of the sale of the entire assets of unutilised assets subject to the Law of Property can be significantly improved. MNV Zrt. It is currently registered with almost 100 thousand items of movable property items, which do not include movable property items in the management of assets, as described in the proposal. Of these, 42 thousand movable property items were acquired by inheritance by the State, with a net book value of HUF 337 million. The net registration value of the additional 57 thousand items is 742 million HUF. A total of one auction of movable property has taken place in the last four years. According to MNV, the take-up of movable property in the last three years has not reached HUF 6 million, which is why innovation and the introduction of the draft is necessary. The draft therefore initiates MNV Zrt. among the owners' rights practitioners. operate an electronic auction system under which you can sell state assets flexibly and continuously. The idea is that the system is MNV Zrt. it would be operated, but all public assets could be linked to the scheme under an agreement between shareholders and trustees of state assets. In addition to the above, the proposal states that the ownership rights over Magyar Development Bank Zrt., Magyar Posta Zrt. and the First National Public Works Company are exercised by the Minister responsible for coordinating government activities and the Central Data Collection and Processing Private Limited Company. Only the change in supervision of the public utility and central data processor is new. Under the proposal, the change of ownership rights is conditional on the ministerial regulation not providing otherwise. Finally, according to the motion, the deadline for the annual reporting of entities exercising ownership rights by the Government on behalf of the State would extend from 30 September to 30 December and the method of selling state assets would be extended by the possibility of electronic auctions. Ladies and gentlemen, Since we have a wealth management law before us, it is worth recalling briefly what aspects of national wealth have been applied in recent years and what results have been achieved in this area. Firstly, we have managed to standardise wealth management among national assets on a systemic basis. Secondly, we have made a major change of attitude in the area of wealth policy, created the protection of national wealth and ensured that this condition remains sustainable in the long term. We have laid down uniform directives, with progressive legislation laying down new normative directions for wealth policy. There have been significant, multi-level legislation with new directions, transparent and verifiable responsibilities for the last five years in this area. In addition, we have made the registration system value-based, which contains data suitable for comparison and aggregation. In 2010, the new government in office created a legislative environment that underpins responsible asset management. [[10.20]] The greatest achievement in this respect was the creation of a fundamental law on national assets, which enabled greater protection of national assets, strategic firms, natural and cultural values and, at the same time, made asset management relations more transparent. The single state asset management system now ensures that all elements of national assets are treated on the same ownership basis. Thus, the property law ensured that national property could no longer be squandered. Our aim is to maintain government control over the priority national public assets and public service companies. By doing so, the State will be a decisive and unavoidable factor in supplying public and economic utility services. A number of processes have been launched in the area of national wealth which has streamlined the management of assets and has used the properties that have so far been abandoned without privatization. One example of this is that in many cases the State transfers public properties to municipalities for free if they undertake and guarantee proper public service operations. So far, municipalities have received more than HUF 50 billion worth of assets, including more railway facilities, sports facilities, and the transfer of former garrison clubs has begun. On the other hand, which was necessary for the municipality, the State took over the operation there. To give some figures: 475 educational, 132 social and youth protection, 74 public education, 25 other institutions, economic associations or foundations were taken over by the state. In return, he freed former owners from a total debt of HUF 187 billion. The state has also strengthened its position in a number of strategic areas. We bought back MOL and Raba shares. We've invested in E.ON, and in Main Gas, the state has played a role in Mahart Passnave Personal Shipping Ltd. We have saved MAL Zrt., the Gyula Meat Combinat, and we have replaced a number of PPP projects in order to maintain functionality and production, maintain jobs and ensure the performance of public tasks. In addition, the State has actively contributed to large-scale reconstruction projects in order to expand and preserve state real estate assets. Think of the reconstruction of Kossuth tér, the Castle Bazaar or the development of sports infrastructure such as the Tüske Hall. In my opinion, therefore, this is the direction in which we should continue to go in the area of wealth policy, and this is the bill that can facilitate this process. Please also consider these aspects in the debate and support the draft in the vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-11-36	I now give the floor to László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-06-11-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I believe that what Mr State Secretary has just said, and my fellow Member Péter Cseresnyés has also stressed, whether in terms of electronic auctions or in the addition of real estate to local governments, are positive side effects of a legislative package that is not really about this. I think it should have been a salad law now, because yesterday, too, and today, there is a bill in this House where you can see that the lines of force, the vectors, the beneficiary, the concentration of power are pointing in the same direction in all three cases. If we had discussed these things together now, then one should not think for a reason and right that there is some hidden intention behind these one or two, I think, half-developed concepts, such as internet sales, e- Auctions, electronic auctions. I wouldn't think so, and I'm sorry to say the criticism first, Mr. Secretary of State: MNV has 742 million forints worth of movable property in general, which must be auctioned. I am also sure that storing and guarding this will cost the same money, so it will obviously cost money to guard him. I trust that this is not the case for this government, but I trust that the cost of the electronic auction system to be set up will not exceed at least this initial stock that they intend to sell. I am not as optimistic as Secretary of State, and I do not expect GDP to grow in this case. Before I go to the proposal, I have to remember yesterday, where, once in relation to the Hungarian Development Bank, we added the scope of its portfolio, so that, from now on, the MFB can deal with the investment of assets, pennies, utility services, real estate distribution and real estate recovery, and we do not need to bring it to the House now, if the Hungarian Development Bank wishes to jump into such a project, so to say, to implement it, but simply by ordering the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, János Lázár, to speak politely, to call it if I do not want to be polite, then I say that he will give the order to buy which company. If, by chance, not all legal options are available and all financial options are not available, then, of course, you can set up a company, and the MFB can even grant a loan to buy these companies. That was the first proposal we had yesterday. Then came the law on the amendment of the State Property Law, in which the House will have the power to do so, if we really accept that János Lázár can not only give this order to the MFB, but also give orders to every company owned by a hundred percent, or even to a public institution managed by the MNV, with the possibility that companies may also think that companies can ask for such an order, they can signal to the Prime Minister's Office that they want to buy certain companies. 'Cause one way or another, you're gonna decide how you're gonna put that thing on your own. It's gonna have to be for the common good somehow. And today we have come to the point that there were two other companies that were not included in this circle, which János Lázár could have made excellent provision for, whether in a regulation, in complete secrecy; perhaps once a year it can be reported, or obviously an interpellation, a question can be asked. These last two were the First National Public Service Provider, which was either created or not, we do not know yet, or the central data collection and processing company. At the first, I think I have said it once before, but I will say it again, because it is important: when a national utility company is set up, when my fellow Member Péter Cseresnyés proudly says how many public utility suppliers the Hungarian State has bought, it is necessary to draw attention to the fact that, on the one hand, we are members of the European Union, so that the government can think, otherwise, there is nothing wrong with this, but we had a discussion with the Commissioner responsible for this, Mr Katainen, who has so many times highlighted the involvement of private capital, the multiplier effect of private capital, the participation of private capital in public utilities and public services, that unfortunately I could not stop asking him if he knew that Hungary was going in the opposite direction. In Hungary, private capital is not what serves as a public service. The public services in Hungary are quasi nationalised, it is true, not by involving them with a law, but by the way, at least for money, the Hungarian State involves them in its own property, but we are not going to do so, and whether we will fall from that amount of resources. It is opinionary, not opinionary, but it is EUR 315 billion in the coming period. [[10.30]] What are the chances for a state-owned majority-owned company to apply, since we know that the European Union will want to spend about 80 percent of this EUR 315 billion on infrastructure development and public utility development, and that if it is run and developed by a majority in Hungary, what are our chances of doing so? Commissioner Katainen said that there is no chance for the Hungarian state, by the way. I am not citing it because yesterday, Madam Secretary, you made the wrong reference, and I did not say that it should be a PPP, but Commissioner Katainen said that they could reach the maximum possible PPP, but I wouldn't run into that now. So these are the last two companies that were out of the Prime Minister's office on some level, these last two companies are now involved, and you're bringing them to the Prime Minister's Office. If we look at these three proposals together, one more time, i.e. the surplus portfolio, additional rights given to the MFB, and then the right to establish a decree to the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, which he has with state assets, without his own decree, as he does, and if by chance there were two other companies left that would have operated under the discretionary, therefore exclusive powers of Minister János Lázár, leading the Prime Minister's Office, by way of reporting to Parliament, then with this proposal, we will be able to involve these two in this circle. We therefore believe, and I said yesterday, that breaking down bureaucratic barriers, making the operation more efficient, simplifying unwanted bureaucratic systems, or simply removing undesirable bureaucratic systems from the system, can clearly make the operation of the government more efficient. But here is the complete breakdown of bureaucracy and the compression of it into one hand, into a power center, which, I believe, is already a process that is detrimental to parliamentary democracy. It is considered harmful in a parliamentary democracy where the government has a reporting obligation to Parliament. It is true that we are already used to it in other institutions outside government or government, but also in the institutions created by the government, that this is a formalized report. They tell us what they think, we say what we think, and then sometime it's night, it's on the record, and then nothing happens in these matters, except for one exception, Peter Polt answered the letters afterwards. By the way, everyone else was reading their pre-written lockdown and it was over. But here we are talking about a hundred billion-dollar asset, which now goes to the Prime Minister's Office in a concentration of power. Yesterday, I passed by his side, today I will not go past the fact that the kind of political, power-tech tool, which the Prime Minister is using now, is that he is having the Ministry of Development and the State Secretary Lászlóné Németh submit all this and defend these proposals, which simply restricts the Ministry of Development, reduces its margin of manoeuvre, a system of tools that the Ministry of Development could only dream of, which is precisely what you, Mr Secretary of State, must prepare. So I think that this political, power-technical issue is that we should hear this as a rapporteur on the proposal of Miklós Seszták, that he voluntarily asks us not to put everything into his hands, but to put everything into the hands of Minister János Lázár, I believe that this is a power struggle within Fidesen that does not belong to Parliament. I told you yesterday that home problems were solved at home. This is certainly not Parliament's concern, so we do not need to pass laws yet, so we do not need to deliver the state's wealth to an eye minister, a minister who will otherwise report on his activities in December instead of October. This is about bleeding out one ministry, and the other ministry and its leaders about their concentration of power. These three proposals, if you look at them in one piece, I think that this is very difficult to deny. What I really think is still a problem is that you are doing this in the spirit of transparency, simplicity, transparency, speed. I think simplicity and speed, Mr Secretary of State, are aspects of cooking; not when decisions must be made on a hundred billion-dollar fortune that determines the lives of certain regions in the medium and long term. I can say this a little louder because I'm from a forgotten region, where the forgotten cities are, where we've asked for railway properties in vain. [[István Szilárd Németh: Little Moscow!]] By the way, the stadiums can now be awarded to the NB I football teams, and the local government's life will not be any easier even if they can be acquired at an electronic auction from now on. Let them realize that this is what is really happening here, that your ministry is being bled out, and that Lazarus' ministry is being made into a power center, a centre that I believe Hungary has never seen before, or at least has seen in times that we are not entirely proud of in our history, but yet I say that because of the power struggles, we should not create laws because of the fault lines and power struggles within Fidesen. They will always hit back on us - that everyone, all Hungarians, because of this Hungarians will not benefit a penny. No one will otherwise live more easily and better in this country, and once again: at least not in the spirit of transparency and transparency. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-11-38	I now give the floor to Attila Móring József, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-06-11-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The purpose of the bill before us is to ensure that MNV Zrt. operate an electronic auction system that allows you to sell state assets flexibly and continuously, in particular movable assets which are inaccessible and difficult to sell under current procedures. In the auction system to be developed, MNV Zrt. is not. State assets under the exercise of ownership rights may also be activated, on the basis of agreements concluded with other practitioners of ownership rights. With the use of the electronic auction system, a large and cost-effective sale of currently static state movable property can begin. The First National Public Service Company. and central data collection and processing zrt. the Minister for the Coordination of Government Activities exercises ownership rights on the basis of statutory designation. On the basis of the amendment, the limits on the exercise of the transferred ownership right will also be established. The preservation and protection of state property justifies the exercise of their rights within the limits of certain restrictive provisions of ownership rights practitioners designated by the Ministerial Regulation. These limits are the following: the ownership of the public property affected by the exercise of ownership rights cannot be transferred by the owner, the right to purchase, the right to buy, the right to buy by contract, the right not to secure it or otherwise to impose it, nor to terminate the company by winding up. The amendment aimed at simplifying the movement of property between owners' rights practitioners creates the possibility of transfers of assets to facilitate more effectively the provision of public tasks, thereby simplifying the implementation of asset management tasks with the approval of the Minister for State Property. For example, out-of-use hospital estates may be handed over by the State Healthcare Supply Centre by MNV Zrt. for other uses, or MNV Zrt. MFB Zrt. may transfer state real estate. to the State-owned company governed by the right of ownership. On the basis of the draft law, the holders of the rights designated by law shall be entitled to transfer the assets entrusted to them under an agreement for which the statutory designation determines the assets entrusted to them in a manner other than individually identifiable, but with an indication of the assets concerned. [[10.40]] For example, it should not be possible for MFB Zrt. to do so. the exercise of ownership rights over a company listed in a law governed by the exercise of ownership rights shall be transferred on the basis of the basis of the basis of which the exercise of other ownership rights is based. The provision does not aim to empty the statutory designation, but merely to make more efficient use of the assets of the public property belonging to the assets of the holders of ownership rights entrusted to him with a significant portfolio. It is also timely to use modern technologies in the field of state wealth management. Accordingly, the bill contains the requirement that MNV Zrt. operate an electronic auction system that allows you to sell state assets flexibly and continuously. The long-term effects of the electronic auction system - minimal human resources, lower cost requirements, significantly greater efficiency than other sales options - will facilitate the repetition of unsuccessful sales procedures, and the actual publicity and availability is much greater than the option provided by the auction on the traditional route. In addition to the expected increase in budgetary revenue, it can be assumed, by providing for the use of out-of-use public assets in society, that GDP will be increased over time. A large volume of the current static state movable property may begin to be sold. The bill also contains a minor amendment to the law on the more efficient operation of publicly owned companies, according to which the requirements for the compulsory establishment of the supervisory board would be modified primarily in the light of reasonable and cost-effective reasons. On this basis, in the event that the shareholder acquired the holding through an influential inheritance and the shareholder has decided to terminate the public company without its successor, and in the case of firms subject to winding-up, liquidation or compulsory cancellation proceedings at the time of acquisition, if the supervisory board did not operate at the time of acquisition, it is justified to provide for the possibility that the supervisory board should be elected only on the basis of the decision of the shareholder rights practitioner, but should not be compulsory. In view of the above, KDNP supports the bill. Mr. President, thank you for letting me know. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-11-40	I now give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-06-11-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Most of all, I would like to talk about the interesting thing that does not make the House's legislative work particularly easy, but at the same time paints a rather sad picture of the government's codification work. This story is about the fact that the Law on State Property is intended to be amended by the House and the Government in two current legislative proposals. One is text No. 5046 discussed yesterday, which changes the same paragraphs in a surprising and thought-provoking way, so Article 3. Paragraph 2a and paragraph 2b, which are also intended to be amended by the current bill No 4853, which has now been discussed. There is therefore an interesting race in time as to which bill will be voted first, first announced, and how the legislation will change on this basis, since there are two or three conflicting provisions in these points. So you're going to change it in a way, say, where appropriate, the 3rd. Paragraph 2a of Article 2a of the bill before us, in which case the bill discussed yesterday will completely repeal it. I would very much ask the honourable Secretary of State to make it clear to us exactly what is going on with regard to government codification, which ministry now thinks seriously, how they are trying to do these contradictions and then finally comb together and show a unified picture. The other related issue, which is about the stock of state assets. Here we have heard about it, and my fellow Member, Mr Z. Karpat, will explain this in more detail to you that Mr. János Lázár, the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, will be given a great deal of authority in the future in relation to the state's wealth, we can say that free robbery will be his jurisdiction from now on, so he can order bridles at any time, anywhere, and in relation to real estate property he can make irrevocable provisions that could seriously damage public property altogether. It is surprising and interesting to think about the fact that, in this context, the date of 30 September so far on the stock of state assets and on the management process is now being pushed out by you until 31 December. What is needed in these three months, why do we need to postpone this deadline, and how does the House intend to discuss the discharge law if we cannot see a real picture of the state of public wealth next to it? I would very much ask the Secretary of State to make it clear to us why this amendment is necessary, since in the detailed explanation we are given very little clarification in this regard, and the proposal itself did not contain a word about it. At the same time, the power of MNV Zrt. to contribute to the preparation of national asset management directives and the annual national asset management programme will be deleted. It's a little weird for me, though. So why can't that company actually contribute? in the development of these documents, which may also mean accounting for the assets entrusted to him, by reporting to the Parliament in that case? Why can't this have anything to do with MNV anymore? Going on to the electronic auction institution, which will now be MNV Zrt. It can also be used, and in this sense it is a new legal institution, and it is carefully highlighted in Article 6. The fact that these auctioneers, who will be admitted to the electronic auction system as auctioneers, must comply with Article 3 of the National Property Act. § 1 shall be the first point of paragraph 1, i.e. transparent organisations. And you have to make a statement about that. This is an extremely important point, very welcome, thank you for putting this in the government. Let me at the same time draw the attention of the respected government to a very small moment. In this sense, it is important to declare in relation to other procedures, for example, in the case of a contract, that if an entity that has a public asset, whether we think of a State or a municipality, wants to conclude a contract with a particular company, it must be stated whether it is a transparent entity or not. The organisation makes a statement, feels that it is transparent and makes a statement about it. But what if that's not really the kind of company we're talking about? Surprisingly, there's nothing. Let me give you an example, Minister. This is a property belonging to a national property, the Barérc u. No. 16, a large estate in Gellérthegy, owned by the municipality of District I, so it was a national property. In this respect, the capital city had a pre-emptive right. There has been an organization, which happens to be, and I would just like to mention that Szabolcs Czira is an economic organization under the authority of the Fidesz mayor of Nagykőrös, which is not transparent, and it is registered in Switzerland that he would like to buy this property, because later on the company led by Lőrinc Mészáros wants to build a huge structure there. During the sale of assets, this particular statement was purchased from the company. I'm telling you, everyone can look at it, it's very clear from the public company data that we're talking about a non-transparent organization, but they're saying they feel transparent. When we signaled this to the D.A.'s office when we signaled this to the government office, it turned out that if we had the paper we could consider as a statement, neither the prosecution nor the government office could at present examine its contents. [[10.50]] So any Hungarian citizen can view it from public company data, it can be revealed to him, but neither the prosecutor's office nor any employee of the government office has the right to do so and to say that anyone who has spoken in this regard has lied a great deal, and in this respect this statement is nullified, and even, where appropriate, to take criminal action. So it is very important that this is included, but what if these certain auctioneers also say that they feel transparent, and they are not? But of course, I could say the offshore companies of Andy Vajna, which - we only found out yesterday - make a very significant profit from Hungary in terms of billions of forints, and the government responds to this by being happy that there are profitable businesses in Hungary. For us, it is a little less welcome that this profit does not prevail in Hungary, it does not stay in Hungary, but it does not stop with it perhaps to Belize or Luxembourg, I do not know where this company is registered to Andy Vajna. Now, the next point of this bill is the fantastic gift of MNV Zrt. that you will receive from the State, so that the assets entrusted to you will be not only in the management of your assets, but also in intangible assets, objects, stocks and the rest of them, MNV Zrt. will be transferred from one moment to the next. the property of the electronic procedure I just mentioned to you, and then you can sell it. Here, in the general justification and in the detailed justification, there is a long presentation that these are subjects of succession. Obviously, I do not doubt that they are largely, in large part, inheritance objects, but the bill itself does not apply to this, but everything that is MNV Zrt. owned property, i.e. movable property, to be precise: it is owned by the State, but it is in his management, it is now transferred to his property free of charge, and then it will be sold. The question to me is what will happen to this amount of money that comes in during the sale. So far, this was clearly State revenue, but since it is not the property of the State, it is the company owned by the State. About his property, obviously it's only going to go to the Zrt. MNV Zrt. will no longer have any obligation to actually transfer these amounts into the Hungarian budget. The other question that I have raised in this regard, and I cannot keep it quiet again, is that just two days ago, on Tuesday, the House voted on the fact that certain issues will now be encrypted, which concerns the state budget, concerns state revenue and so on. When asked in the Committee on Budgets at the time why this was necessary, Minister of State Banai replied that certain real estate sales would take place here, and that in terms of the amounts received, they would not want to predict which real estate they would like to sell, because then the market will quasi price these real estates ahead, and then perhaps they will not be able to reach the amount they would otherwise hope to achieve. That makes sense. I would add that the sale of national assets can only be done on the basis of the current valuation, which property valuation is public data. What they can't lie about is whether there is one or what the total amount of these real estate valuations contains. At the same time, when we look at the Hungarian budget, we see that on this line, the sale of real estate will be HUF 12.5 billion for the government, and only HUF 70 million for other sales. But the question is how much this number will actually be, and what this kind of encryption will actually cover. I am not referring to the electronic auction itself, the process of it being public, but what the government is actually planning to sell in advance in this respect is not clear from this bill, and it is feared that in the next period it will not all be revealed what you will actually think in the future, what you will think in fact, what you will think in the future. I would very much ask the Secretary of State to help us with our legislative work by making a list available to us in this regard. Obviously, there are items that can only be listed with a large mass, since this would be a list of hundreds of thousands, but I assume that there are significant assets in it, as well as assets, which will then be sold later, will be significant revenue to the State, and we do not know who, since we have doubts in this respect. One last thought: in the case of publicly owned companies, if they become public ownership, the establishment of a supervisory board will be mandatory. Well, you get the idea that if you're so strict about this and you're so serious about it, then why, in the case of the National Bank, would you not want to set up this particular supervisory board? It is also mandatory in the MNB Act that the National Assembly will set up a supervisory board, and do not tell us that the government cannot form it because there is no agreement between the opposition parties in this respect. But please respectfully, thank God, we have managed to reach this consensus, there is a consensus that the government has also known, so there is, in principle, no reason to prevent this supervisory board from being established, but it is not. For over a year now - since May 2014 we cannot talk about the supervisory board of the MNB - why does the government not want to establish this? This provision is also immediately included in an exception that it is not necessary to establish a supervisory board in the event that there was no supervisory board of that company at the time of the acquisition of certain public ownership or at the time of the acquisition of influence. I don't know, maybe the little devil is working in me, when I think that maybe before a company like this is owned by the state, if they are told that it is not necessarily necessary to run a supervisory board, it might be better to eliminate it, and then there is a greater chance that the state will buy that particular economic company, then, when it actually becomes state property, they will not even form this supervisory board, in Hungarian: as if they were conditional on future companies to be bought, that they would not have and that they would not have a supervisory board, because the state does not really want to operate it. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-11-42	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speech. This is the first time my fellow Members have spoken to him in writing. I give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian from the Jobbik Group.
u2015-06-11-43	Mr President, Dear House, The bill before us seeks to address a number of issues by which it raises further questions. Perhaps the simplest of these would be the range of legacy assets, where we can see that, in the recent period, while the inventory value or the registration value is more than 700 million, the proceeds from the exploitation of this have, according to the paper before me, reached around HUF 6 million. Therefore, it is clear that it can be said that the target class has not been tense in recent years in order to make progress in terms of exploitation. We also see at the same time that MNV Zrt. Here it has a certain amount of value, and it is indeed a huge problem, as my colleague Enikő Hegedűs indicated in an excellent way, what will become of it when it comes to any kind of revenue, how it gets into the budget. We have seen some pretty amazing examples of similar issues, such as the forinting and settlement of foreign exchange credentials, which, by the way, was wrong, but an existing, existing economic process, after which a hundred billion-dollar profit and profit was gained by an entity from which this profit did not finally reach the budget. So there is such a phenomenon in the Hungarian economic structure. It would be nice to avoid this on other fronts. But we also need to see that there has not been enough in the last three years to allocate certain assets, even in the form of a donation, to Hungarian families in difficulty. However, the many hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, who are living under a minimum of millions of living, would indeed be in need of such wealth not to be placed in dusty warehouses and musty rooms, so that one day someone can make use of it without having to include in the budget the revenue part of it. [[11.00]] We can also see that once again there will be a structural restructuring in terms of the utility provider. I don't want to qualify for an internal reorganization of power that may or may or may be the result of this whole thing, I don't feel entitled to pass judgment in this area. However, it seems that the safety of Hungarian consumers cannot be guaranteed at 100%. I'll tell you why. In recent years, the government of Hungary has introduced a discount of around 20 per cent to the Hungarian system along the lines of the so-called reduction in prices on the world market, which is about 20 per cent. So, technically, it was one of them. We don't want to get the results out of this, we're not against it. I would like to stress that, whether or not it is a public utility, control system or not, what will happen if Hungary faces a 20% increase in prices on the world market. I mean, you can see that in this case, you want to make up for this system with some serious billions of dollars from the budget, if any. These suggestions call for very serious answers, since the fact that a state concentration is in itself, changing the person or institution responsible in itself, does not constitute a long-term guarantee of security of supply. Even if, by the way, the government had a reprivatisation strategy and a strategy for the operation of similar public assets and utilities and other companies, it would be close to me. However, we have been demanding this since 2010, and we see that the government has always set aside, releasing certain resources depending on the economic performance of the given year, which usually hit the few ten billion-dollar levels and is trying to buy strategic companies and elements from what is left of it. In many cases, he does this in an overpriced way. There were assets that were estimated to have paid 2-3 times what it was actually worth. We can also say that we do not know what similar acquisitions the government is planning in the coming years, how it intends to exploit these assets. So there are a number of unclear issues in this system. When we start arguing about state wealth in the absence of such a strategy, we need to clarify fundamental issues. Among these fundamental issues would be the location of a public inventory of assets, where the sum of national assets is. They're not the same thing at all! State wealth and national wealth are partly overlapping, but they have quite different dimensions. However, we have been drawing attention to the need for a national inventory for five years. We don't see any trace of that. Once upon a time, there was a debate about national wealth, where small trains were papered into a national wealth circle, various smaller institutions that are very important, but where appropriate do not cover the entire range of national assets. For this includes all the strategic options of Hungary, including not only the assets of its citizens and the state, but also a lot of assets and strategic opportunities that this country can feed on in the future. In the absence of this, it is very difficult to draw a vision and, let's say, talk about a ten-year strategy. This government could be expected to have one of these after five years of almost two-thirds government. What is an amazing category in the package before us and calls for justification is that, according to your draft paper, the aim is to make state wealth management more flexible and faster. That alone would not be a problem. However, the possibility, where appropriate, to allow public companies to exchange real estate or other assets between themselves in such a way that, say, a state-owned building is transferred to a company where the state trustee does not exercise ownership rights, rather, does not exercise ownership rights by a state trustee, opens the door to the idea of very harsh examples, and it can be said that it can open the door to irresponsible games with state assets. It therefore calls for an immediate explanation of how it was thought, however, that, let us say, a state-owned building should be transferred to an entity, an entity where not only does not exercise ownership rights by a state trustee, but the level of control is also quite minimal. So we can be sure that Jobbik cannot support this part of the bill, the irresponsible throwing of state wealth, and its squandering in any way. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-11-44	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll ask if anyone else wants to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy as rapporteur.
u2015-06-11-45	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear, first of all, that I now wish to respond to the comments and questions attached to the bill before us. I am aware that Parliament is usually the seat of open and informal political dialogues, but I do not say that it is pointless, because these are very important things, but I think that this is not the right place for this to be. This introductory sentence also gives me the opportunity to say that I cannot provide a solution to everything in general discussions that have been taking place for decades, even because I believe that these debates between the opposition and the governing parties will continue in the future, such as the role of state wealth, the public ownership or private ownership of strategic industries that determine the functioning and everyday life of citizens and the Hungarian economy. These debates have been conducted countless times over the past 20 years and these differences of opinion have remained. What has appeared in the comments of several of my fellow Members, and I must say that so far it has not been customary for Parliament to debate the right of political power on the government to form a structure. It is the responsibility of the government at all times to establish its governance structure, its ministerial statute, in the way it considers it to be best for the government, on the basis of the mandate given to the electorate. I would just like to say, in response to Mr President's comment, that this government power was also used by the Socialist-SZDSZ government at the time. Another issue is that he used this mandate to privatise strategic industries of fundamental importance for the functioning of Hungarian society and the Hungarian economy. And we're using it to, as far as possible, take them under Community jurisdiction. By the way, we're not alone in this. Allow me to say, as an example, that the French and German energy companies, which used to appear as privatism keepers for the purpose of enforcing idealised private property and market effects, were predominantly state-owned and other Community-owned at home. They appeared as private companies in Hungary. I don't think you've debated this in the last four, five, six years, and that hasn't worked. This justifies the fact that the current government, which has been operating since 2010, has taken a different view in this regard. We believe that strategic industries, services and instruments that determine the economy should be predominantly, not exclusively, but largely subject to Community supervision where appropriate. As regards the technique for submitting legislative proposals, I would like to ask you, Member, not to dismiss from any of the purses or from the minister leading to the submission of legislative proposals in accordance with the law's right. Please assume from the government that you are able to coordinate their content. [[11.10]] Only in order to achieve a full response as far as possible: the former also apply to the question of public utility services. The inclusion of utility services in the single system is promoted and implemented consistently from the outset. Obviously, this has its stations, it has its stations, and there is no doubt that this can be done at a given moment - and this also applies to the past years - one: security of supply is the primary priority, two: in addition to the high importance of the affordability provided by the reduction of the overhead, we can implement it in line with the burden-bearing capacity of the budget. Obviously, we can buy back privatised items in the last 15-18 years when the country's capacity to do so, the improved performance of the economy, gives us the opportunity to do so. If you will allow me to answer some specific questions from the congresswoman. We believe, in addition to stressing the good intentions of the response, that the Member has misunderstood the bill. As regards the section on §2 of the Act, this section is exclusively MNV Zrt. it relates to assets necessary for its operation, and not to all assets in general, which MNV Zrt. within its competence in the course of its activities. MNV Zrt. receive the items of property, sometimes movable property, necessary for its own operation. So it is not about the fact that, by the way, MNV Zrt. is a large number of state assets. It would be owned, therefore, in terms of the sale of this and where the consideration received in the course of its sale - how should I put it? - my best belief is that the concerns expressed are unfounded. By the way, the sale of state assets - whether movable property or real estate - is, of course, MNV Zrt. As a public body designated to carry out this activity, it ultimately concerns the Hungarian budget and serves the objectives of the Hungarian budget. As regards the deadline, why the deadline was exceeded: because of the increase in the number of players in asset management, because the number of managers of state assets has expanded, we really could not, technically and we do not consider the date of 30 September to be possible. That is why we have proposed to amend this deadline, precisely in order to inform Parliament correctly. Here, too, I would like to stress that MNV Zrt has been and will continue to be. Its task is to prepare and implement Parliament's and government's decisions on asset management, and this will continue to be the case in the future; this amendment, which essentially aims to create opportunities for electronic sales, does not affect this. What we aim to do here is to speed up these procedures, reduce administrative burdens and, at the same time, increase the effectiveness of asset management and, in particular, the management of movable property. Moreover, my fellow Members who issued opinions did not object to this, and I therefore ask that they also support our bill with their votes. Thank you, Mr President, for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-11-46	Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. It is now up to XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. Act CXXIII of 2007 on expropriation General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/4889. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I will also give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development.
u2015-06-11-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Recently, the Budapest Chemical Works Ltd. has been informed on several occasions. Environmental problems at the smelly road site. The Government is committed to a rapid, professional and effective settlement of the situation that, given the fact that the company in liquidation does not have the assets to be sold within a short period of time to cover environmental damage relief, requires the involvement of State resources. The removal of hazardous waste accumulated at the site started in May 2015 at a cost advanced by the State and will be fully completed by the end of this year. [[In the notary seat, Adam Mirkóczki is replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]] The government intends to provide an effective solution for dealing with similar situations which, in addition to the specific case, can be applied in general for the future and, in addition to the effective implementation of environmental aspects, fully addresses the rational use of public budgetary resources as a good farmer. The bill includes amendments to ensure that environmental aspects are better enforced in bankruptcy proceedings and winding-up proceedings and that the costs incurred by the State to remedy environmental damage are recovered. Under the Act on General Rules for the Protection of the Environment, the costs of measures to prevent environmental damage and recovery measures must be financed by the State if they cannot be passed on to others. In the case of entities in liquidation proceedings, there is a good chance that the debtor does not have the liquid assets necessary to remedy the damage, so that the costs must be advanced by the State, but it is reasonable to expect that the costs advanced from the budgetary resources will be recovered from the liquidation assets. The bill provides for the possibility that the cost of environmental damage control for disaster protection, nature conservation or environmental protection can be achieved as a cost of liquidation. According to the bill, in the case of disaster protection, nature conservation or environmental protection reasons, an entity may be considered as of strategic importance throughout bankruptcy proceedings or winding-up proceedings, thereby creating the involvement of the public insolvency administrator and the application of special provisions other than the general rules for bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. In the case of entities of strategic importance, there is a shorter procedural deadline and special procedural rules for the sale of assets. In the cases and for the purposes laid down by law, in particular with regard to environmental aspects or sale as a working plant, the public insolvencyor may sell the debtor's assets to a professional investor on a private tender. The bill amends the provisions of the expropriation law on the establishment of the compensation amount in the event that the expropriation takes place in order to eliminate permanent environmental damage recorded in the real estate register. [[11.20]] According to the expropriation law, the owner of the expropriated property is entitled to full, immediate and unconditional compensation, the main rule being to take into account the value of the property's turnover. If the State carries out environmental damage control on the property, it will result in a direct increase in the value of the property's sales and thus, in the event of subsequent expropriation of the property, in the amount of compensation. In order to avoid double costs, the bill states that the compensation should be reduced by the costs of environmental remediation measures or, if this is higher, by the amount of the turnover increase resulting from the remediation. The amount of compensation should also be reduced by the increase in turnover that is made using the aid granted by the applicant for expropriation. The reduction of the amount of compensation is not unprecedented, the expropriation law currently contains such a provision in the case of the expropriation of monuments. The provisions on the reduction of the amount of compensation are fair, reasonable and fully enforce the requirement for the efficient use of public funds. The State can reasonably deduct from the compensation amount the costs already borne by it which have increased the value of the property's turnover. The provisions contained in the bill are in line with Article XX of the Fundamental Law. CHAPTER 1 2 - TOTAL This article gives everyone the right to physical and mental health and to a healthy environment. The bill strengthens environmental aspects in winding-up and expropriation procedures, while ensuring that the cost of measures taken by the State to enforce environmental requirements is at least partially reimbursed. Dear Parliament, On this basis, I am presenting a bill rationalising the effective enforcement of environmental aspects in winding-up proceedings and the rules on expropriation to eliminate environmental burdens, with a view to effective public finance management, and I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support it. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-11-48	Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. In this context, I give the floor first to László Vigh, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-11-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, XLIX of 1991 on bankruptcy and winding-up proceedings. We have before us an amendment to the law, which has become necessary to better enforce environmental aspects. The Budapest Chemical Works Ltd. In the course of the ongoing winding-up procedure, the situation at the Scent Road site focused attention on a problem which, in the specific case and for the future, the government intends to provide a rapid, efficient and economical solution for the use of public funds. The Budapest Chemical Works Ltd. However, despite the obligations imposed by the environmental authority and the fines imposed, the lack of financial coverage has not been the reason why the State has fulfilled its obligations under environmental legislation. The Pest County Government Office carried out an on-the-spot check on 30 April 2015 in which it ordered the immediate removal of hazardous waste as an interim measure. The 1005 barrels, some 110 tonnes, were transported in one month, and further barrels will be transported as a result of an accelerated procurement procedure no later than the end of this year. The rules laid down by this bill as a government motion, I believe, are in the public interest, which in some respects overrides the logic of the market economy. It calls for State intervention, since it is of fundamental public and Community interest that winding-up proceedings involving a large number of people, whether from an employment, environmental or other national economy, should be carried out and conducted in an orderly manner, taking the utmost account of the interests of the community. The financing of measures to prevent damage to the environment is a legal obligation of the State if it cannot be passed on to anyone else. However, the State expects, with a basis, that the cost of environmental remedial measures in the assets of the entity being wound up will be reimbursed by the State and that these costs may be charged as liquidation costs in the winding-up proceedings. Environmental damage control directly increases the value of the property, so it can be sold at a higher price. The resulting sales revenue should enable the costs of State remedial measures to be recovered. What I would like to talk about is the 2007 CXXIII on expropriation. amendment of the law. Environmental expropriation is already ensured by the Environmental Expropriation Act. The applicant for expropriation shall pay compensation, except for the exceptions set out in the expropriation Act, the main rule of which shall be turnover values. Environmental damage control measures carried out on the property by the person requesting the expropriation increase the value of the property's turnover, so that the cost of such measures should be taken into account as a corrective factor when determining the amount of compensation, otherwise the person requesting the expropriation shall bear the costs twice, which is entirely contrary to the responsible and reasonable use of public funds. The regulation is not unprecedented, as the expropriation law already provides for a reduction in the amount of compensation in the event of the expropriation of monuments. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-11-50	Dear Parliament, I take this opportunity to welcome students and educators of the Mikszáth Kálmán High School in Pásztó. I now give the opportunity to speak further to István Tukacs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-06-11-51	I welcome you, too, and I am pleased to see so many of you here working in Parliament. Of course, this comment was not about having something real, nor necessarily that the subject you will hear is so terribly interesting because it is a bit dry. Mr Secretary of State said a very fair proposal on the law, which could also bear the title of lex Scent Road, because it is about solving a problem that has now arisen in the capital, and that is that toxic, environmentally polluting substances are found, if not in the heart of the capital, but definitely in the capital, and that the company, which is interested and can be obliged to do so, is in liquidation, and therefore some state involvement is necessary. [[11.30]] It is also a matter of financial involvement, since it is necessary not only to exercise authority to those who are empowered to do so, but it is also likely that there will be material issues, partly in the discharge, transport of pollutants and various other procedures. Mr Secretary of State was very fair, but I would like to add two points to the bill. It is not only the subject of the debate that public money required on the Scented Way in a state intervention, and obviously, after it is public money, some kind of return must be guaranteed - this is the goal, by the way - but there are various health-damaging or future processes in this case, to which it would also be good to look at. Since, Mr Secretary of State, I know that you are not necessarily interested in health care matters as an expert, I will tell you that there may be some kind of signal for the government that it should not only be about solving the matter and safeguarding the material, state money, but also about the need for a health survey and intervention that requires a very significant state intervention, whose money and state money is not much to talk about with this kind of return, such as that which lies before us. The other point I would like to make in front of my comments is that, although this proposal may bear the title of lex Scenty Road or lex Scent Road, it will be valid for all cases of this type at a later stage, so it is not only about this bill solving a very, very, very amazing problem - I cannot put it another way - it is also about what is the procedure and what is the existing guarantee if such situations arise later. Therefore, in my view, in these cases, if it is already applicable in other situations, very large transparency is necessary. At Scent Road, that's guaranteed, because now everyone is paying attention to that, residents, representatives of the residents, environmentalists, human rights defenders, and almost everyone who's interested in this case. So this case has attracted public attention in such a way that it is a matter of thousands of quantities of pollution stored in a barrel, that it is now inevitable that everyone will know everything that happens in it. I think that part's okay. However, if, later in the application of the law, it arises that, in various other situations, the passage of the law should be applied, after the public money is involved, after the liquidation or winding-up proceedings, after the existing assets are involved, debtors and others, there would be a need for a very large transparency of the processes. I'm just saying this because, in my knowledge, the ownership structure of this Scented Road Owner or Owner is rather branchy-bogas, or I don't know how to put it more elegantly. So, that's why everyone needs to know what the real stories are in these otherwise really amazing things. From the MSZP's point of view, that the proposal wants to protect public resources invested in cleaning and recultivation, that is a very good effort, and that it enforces this partly in bankruptcy law and partly in expropriation, I agree. The attempt that, if there is no one to justify the bankruptcy, only the Hungarian State or the Hungarian Government, as the case may be, and that the government wants to protect the money spent on this, or to see it return, I agree with this on my part, the efforts to do so are in order. I think it is also a good effort to extend this proposal to various areas, but I must note that it is a bit painful in the history of this law. As we know, these laws had two preventive laws, in particular this was a matter of companies that could be declared important from a national economy's point of view and of the specific procedures that we were protesting at the time. We protested because we saw that it gave the government quite a margin of manoeuvre to apply that legislation with easy hands and to point out to anyone with easy hands that he is important in the national economy and to enforce specific rules in this regard. Because of this record, we have certain reservations, although I see that this particular case can otherwise be resolved with this legislation. There was also another kind of history of this law, a piece of the law, also caused a great debate in Parliament between the government and the opposition. The Socialists also voted 'no' in this, and we also said our reasons, because we thought that these votes were due to the suspicion that it was not only in the interests of the large community that these legislative proposals could be dealt with, but also in the interests of private interests, lobbying and others. I say this because, let's say, we're sitting up to our ears right now - and I'm sorry, Mr President, that I'm making a small detour, but really just a little bit - we're sitting up to our ears in the problem of a company called ESMA. There was a company that could place ads on the electric columns, and then the majority of the government brought in a bill that forbade it, which practically shut down the company, and then this company was bought by a man close to the government, and now they're gonna take it all back, they're gonna bring in the bill, and they can put ads on these columns again. So it's because of these procedures - how do I put it? - there is a certain kind of maintenance in relation to such imported proposals, otherwise, at least on our part, because a good bill for the rapid elimination of the Scented Travel problem, of course, which is important for those there, must be used, this part is perfectly okay, but there are a lot of cases that overshadow these otherwise fast and good efforts which I could not only mention in relation to this particular company, but also in relation to others. Not to mention, I think, Mr Secretary of State, that you have put the right effort on the table to resolve the specific problem. I am not from the capital, but I feel that this problem needs to be resolved, and that if Mr Secretary of State has taken these two signals, which concern that health problems will also have to be taken into account in some way, and transparency will be important in the future, we will obviously take into consideration what position we will take on this law. Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your information, and thank you for listening. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-11-52	I now give the floor to Attila Móring József, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-06-11-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The law on bankruptcy and liquidation and the amendment of the expropriation law became necessary in order to better enforce environmental aspects. As has been said, Budapest Chemical Works Ltd. A rapid and effective management of the state of serious environmental hazard at its smelly travel site is needed in such a way that it can be used in a general way for the future, with a reasonable and economic use of public resources. The Act on General Rules for the Protection of the Environment makes it an obligation of the State to finance measures to prevent environmental damage and the costs of recovery measures in the event that they cannot be passed on to anyone else. In the case of entities subject to winding-up proceedings, where the entity does not have any marketable assets, the costs of environmental damage control or prevention of further environmental hazard are typically borne by the State. In the absence of the debtor's assets, the liquidator does not have an obligation to provide for the settlement of environmental burdens at his own expense. The same has to do with the fact that the debtor has assets, but the sale of them is ineffective due to the significant environmental burden. If the cost of eliminating environmental damage or preventing further environmental damage is paid by the State, it shall have the basis for at least partial reimbursement of this public-funded cost in the context of the winding-up procedure. In order to ensure this, the draft is set out in the Annex to the Act of Accession. 57 fixing liquidation costs. § 2 is supplemented by a new point (j), which expressly provides that, on grounds of disaster protection, nature conservation or environmental protection, the costs of environmental damage control in the debtor's assets and the cost of further environmental hazard, which the State has advanced, shall be regarded as liquidation costs, which shall be the priority in the order of satisfaction. [[11.40]] It should be noted that the recognition as liquidation costs will take place if the costs of remediation are not otherwise reimbursed. In the case of entities classified by the government as being of strategic importance in the regulation, there is a public insolvency proceedings and, in relation to the general rules of winding-up proceedings, the law lays down specific provisions and shorter procedural deadlines. For the purposes of qualifying as strategically high priority, Article 65 of the Act provides that: Pursuant to paragraph 2 (a) and (b), the main rule in the event of bankruptcy is within 30 days or 365 days in the case of winding-up proceedings. At present, the law provides a longer time limit only for enterprises with a majority state influence, or for associations or foundations where the foundings, voting rights are exercised by a central budgetary body or other public body. In the latter case, the law is 65. Paragraph 2 (2) (c) states that the government may consider an entity of strategic importance throughout the entire period of bankruptcy or winding-up proceedings. The proposal will include, among the exceptions, the case where the status of an entity as a priority is justified by disaster protection, nature conservation or environmental considerations. In this case, too, during the entire period of bankruptcy or winding-up proceedings, it is possible to publish a government decree declaring the entity as strategically important under the draft, thereby involving a public liquidator. Dear House, The terms of the private tender are set out in Article 67 of the Act. Paragraph 9d of Article 9d of which, in order to achieve the objectives set out in paragraphs 9b and 9c, is in force, allows the application of a private tender to the public insolvency administrator. The proposal makes the cyclical condition an alternative, i.e. it also provides for the possibility of a private tender to achieve the objectives set out in paragraphs 9b or 9c. In accordance with paragraph 9b, where the debtor's liability for environmental damage or environmental hazard has been established or carries out an activity that endangers the environment, the sovereign shall treat the debtor's assets with a view to preventing further damage to the environment, taking into account the public interest in the conduct of the debtor's activities. Pursuant to paragraph 9c, the public liquidator shall establish the terms of the tender in such a way that the debtor's assets are sold as a working plant to a professional investor who shall also ensure the prevention of environmental damage control and further environmental hazard. The objective of the measure is to enable the environmental aspects to be effectively enforced in the sale of the property by means of a private tender and to sell the debtor's assets primarily to a professional investor. The draft requires, by analogy with the provision used for the expropriation of monuments, that the amount of compensation be reduced, in the case of measures taken to eliminate environmental damage and to prevent environmental hazard, by the costs incurred by applicants for expropriation incurred by the removal of environmental damage, by measures taken under the legislation to prevent environmental hazard and by other means, or, if this value is higher, by the amount of the traffic value increase resulting from damage relief that has not been reimbursed elsewhere, and by the amount of the increase in turnover achieved by using the aid granted to the person entitled to compensation. In any event, the possibility of reducing the amount of compensation is justified as the value of the property increases significantly as a result of the environmental damage relief, so the person requesting the expropriation would have to pay a significantly higher amount of compensation in the absence of the new provision, even though the increase in turnover was the result of the measures taken by the applicant for expropriation or the use of the subsidies it has granted. The draft will only allow for a reduction in costs that have not been reimbursed elsewhere. Following the expropriation, it will be possible to fully compensate for the damage to the environment and even to involve EU funds. Compensation measures may be taken not only before or during the expropriation procedure but also during the course of the procedure by the applicant for expropriation. The cost of remedial measures carried out during the procedure may be determined only after they have been completed. In order to make the law new 18. For the purposes of Article 4 of the Treaty, it is necessary to specify precisely the costs of reducing the amount of compensation and to allow the suspension of the procedure for the duration of the remedial measures. The draft shall allow the applicant for expropriation to initiate the suspension of the procedure for the period necessary for the implementation of the remedial measures. The procedure shall continue at the request of the applicant for expropriation and at the latest after the completion of the remedial measures. Thank you for your attention and the KDNP supports this proposal. Mr. President. Thank you for letting me know. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-11-54	I give the floor to Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. [[Attila Móring József takes over the notary again.]]
u2015-06-11-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Next to the site of the Scented Road Chemicals, there is a giant poster, which has been posted in the last few days, and the text is: If you come to Hungary, you will have to comply with our laws. It is very strange to see this billboard on the fence next to the main entrance to the Budapest Chemical Works, as we see that there are companies in Hungary and there are individuals who do not consider themselves obliged to comply with Hungarian laws in Hungary. This is the case with Budapest Chemicals. You're just amazed and staring at people in the media when you hear about how many billions of people will have to spend on compensation, liquidation, remediation, and how many billions, and in the case of a company that has already had a similar or similar experience in its history, it's the same case. After all, at the time of the first Orbán government, around the turn of the millennium, the remediation of the Garéi temporary landfill also consumed an amount of approximately HUF 4 billion, which also had to be financed from public funds, from the public remediation source. Then what happened was that very similar compositions of waste with very similar adverse effects were placed at the border of Garé, Baranya County, in quite large quantities. These barrels were then removed, but pollution in the soil and groundwater is still there at the moment. By taking the barrels, nothing has been solved. At the moment, dug wells and soil water in the village cannot be used, people do not use it for irrigation or other purposes, and there is a great risk that the drinking water base will also become contaminated, because these pollutions are spreading, and sooner or later they will enter the drinking water base deeper and deeper. So it's amazing that we got to the point, ten or a few years later, that we are once again there, that at another site of the Budapest Chemical Works, at its central premises, someone finds abandoned, unclaimed barrels of dangerous, toxic material leaking into the ground, and has been unchecked for years, since the company has been in liquidation for seven or eight years. In the beginning, it is nonsense how an winding-up procedure can last seven or eight years, why it is so long in Hungarian law, why they allow such a long winding-up procedure to take so long. We also know that there are documents at our disposal that this story is not so new, because already in 2005, ten years ago, the environmental authority in Central Danube Valley imposed a HUF 49 million waste management fine on waste stored without permission and properly at the Budapest Chemical Works's Scented Road site. So in 2005, a fine of HUF 50 million was imposed. In 2009, this was followed by another fine of HUF 17 million, followed by a criminal report in 2011. Also, the Central Danube Environmental Authority filed a criminal complaint under Article IX. district police station, where you describe in detail that about 1200 tonnes of hazardous waste is at the site. [[11.50]] There was a year when no one -- there was a company that originally signed a contract to protect it, but then it terminated the contract, and for years no one had guarded it, and the dangerous substance flowed freely out of it into the ground and into the ground. So, after such a history, it is quite interesting that we now have a law before Parliament, which makes it easier, indeed, to settle this matter, and therefore we will support it, but there are strange elements. Such a strange element - and in this connection we will also submit or submit an amendment to this proposal - as to why the rules of the closed, non-public negotiated procedure should be amended compared to the original proposal, why it is necessary at all to sell the company in liquidation by closed, non-invited tender or non-public tender for environmental reasons or disaster protection reasons. This always gives the impression of abuse and corruption, that when something is closed, if something is not public, it reduces the confidence of citizens. So from now on, we don't understand why this is necessary. Although the justification of the law says that in order for an appropriate professional investor, who may be able to continue to operate the remedial process or the plant itself, to take over as a plant and professionally appropriate, this is what the law says, but we do not see any justification for this closed, uninvited tender. So we can agree with other proposals, which include further detailed rules on expropriation and winding-up proceedings, in this case, because what we really need now is to be able to resolve this area as smoothly as possible. All you have to do is make sure that we really don't go the way we do with Gare, that they take the barrels, the few thousand barrels that are there, and then the pollution in the soil stays there. Cleaning the soil itself, I understand that one of the large Hungarian remedial companies calculates that it can use up to HUF 40 billion, so it is a huge amount of money, and obviously, at this amount, there are always, one way or another, clever companies that do not actually do remedial work, but pass it on. So where public resources and billions and billions appear, it is important to pay close attention to how these will be spent or spent. That is why we proposed that this remedial process be monitored by a parliamentary committee of inquiry, a parliamentary committee where experts would be involved in the work of the committee, in addition to the representatives of the parliamentary factions. After all, in the last 20 years, the national environmental remediation programme has spent several billion forints on taxpayers' money, tax forints, and it is not always clear that these have actually been used in such a way that the area can be considered environmentally and health-cleaned, and at the same time the spending of money can be considered the most effective. It would therefore be necessary to examine them backwards, on the one hand, by a parliamentary committee of inquiry, and, on the other hand, by exploring and monitoring such matters which are now under way and are expected to take place in the future from a political, legislative point of view. Because of the fact that there were cases like this every month, there was the Selypi cement factory, asbestos was the dangerous waste, but it was dangerous waste; then there was the case of the Balmazújváros dump, here a few years ago, perhaps two years ago, the issue of water pollution in Abasár, and there were still a number of cases that could be classified - Óbuda Gas Factory, and the others - in recent years, decades, where serious environmental problems were identified, and which were no longer responsible for solving environmental problems, could not be found responsible for the cost of it. They always end up on the state. However, the state must do so, because the state must not only manage the budget forints as a good farmer, but also natural resources. Within the framework of the national environmental remediation programme, a list was made at the time that thousands of sites, thousands of sites in Hungary, could be interesting in this respect, in terms of remediation. If we know that there are such a large number of these sites, and we also know that they threaten our drinking water bases, endanger our agricultural land, endanger our natural environment, and of course endanger human health, then it is our duty to intervene; whether using EU funds or Hungarian budgetary resources, we must reach the target state as soon as possible so that there is no situation in Hungary that the drinking water base of a settlement will be contaminated and then drinking water must be brought to the settlement from elsewhere. Because simply, after that, it could be cleaned up, or it could not be done at all, so irreversible environmental damage occurs. That is why we consider it important not only to implement this issue through such laws, such detailed rules, but also through a comprehensive regulation, to restart the national environmental remediation programme, and indeed to take legal steps to ensure that such pollution can be detected and remedial measures can be implemented when the undertaking still exists, there is a company in which it can be recovered. Because, once again, we have the Budapest Chemicals, which has been at the centre of the media with pollution problems for decades. In 2005, when the environmental authority imposed a fine of HUF 50 million, as far as I know it was still a working company, the winding-up proceedings had not yet started, perhaps something could have been done. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Now the company may be able to cover at least part of its existing real estate and other assets during liquidation proceedings, if this law is accepted by the Parliament, the costs of the remedial procedure. But, once again, it is not appropriate for companies operating in Hungary and using hazardous substances or producing hazardous waste to settle in the future so that they will leave the hazardous waste in the ground nicely, and the state will eventually compensate and commit itself for them, but must catch it at the root of the problem before it is eliminated, the company will disappear and these claims will not be recovered. So I welcome the government's efforts to move in this direction. I would ask the Secretary of State to say that in the closing words, explain in a few sentences why a closed, unpublic sales proposal is necessary, and if he does this for me, and he can give me the right reason, then I do not think that we can support this proposal. For now, we're on such a stand-by position. Thank you very much. [[Tibor Bana applauds.]]
u2015-06-11-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. I'll ask you immediately if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] No. Then I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy, who is preparing for the closing. Here you go.
u2015-06-11-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This bill, which is actually on the basis of a specific case, is about far more than a specific case than a Scented Road. My fellow Members of the opposition and my fellow Members of the governing party have been very much right to talk about one of the most important issues of the country's current state, and I must add, in the future. As they say, the old sins have a long shadow, and the past decades, not only the past few years, the past decades have been about the fact that, unfortunately, the old sins, literally buried in our case, are partially revealed. At the same time, there are also the consequences of farming, sometimes irresponsible farming, of which we are talking about the financial consequences, the potential financial consequences, but at the same time - and I think it is extremely remarkable to hear from Mr Tukacs - this has a human aspect, because these polluting blokes are not only about the increase in the value of the discharge costs and the value of the exempt property, but also about the possible awareness of it. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs will be replaced in the notary seat by Adam Mirkóczki.]] These are very important, however, but unfortunately, sometimes it is not just the making of billions of accounts, but also the indirect and direct damage to health and the financial impact they cause. [[12.00]] So for our part, we are open to any proposals that cause this to be discussed and thought through. Unfortunately, we can all forget a series of examples of what other health-damaging, large industrial disasters, which have been experienced in a region through its drinking water base or, unfortunately, over the last decade, sometimes require many deaths. So for our part, we're open to thinking about it and negotiating it. If I have already mentioned openness, honourable Member, please believe that the back of the government is not only the back of opposition representatives, but also our back, which is one of the main means of protecting it, if not the most important means of transparency. If there is an interest in these procedures being conducted in a transparent and transparent way, then the current government is in our interest in this case, so I also think that there is full agreement in this respect. Allow me also to be open, my fellow Members, to make one more comment, and this is not only the general requirement and the political interest, but also the current regulation. The winding-up commissioner is still under an obligation to inform creditors, and this transparency and information is still largely guaranteed by the bankruptcy law, since the liquidator has an obligation to inform creditors. The sale of the debtor's assets takes place in full publicity and the liquidator is obliged to publish a final balance sheet to the public. So the norm of this is still in place today, but with its weight in principle and its full validation in the future, we are very much in agreement. We are waiting for amendments by my fellow Member Kepli, so I would ask you to submit them. In relation to the private tender, the response requested is that the bankruptcy law has already provided for the possibility of private tendering, which is not a new legal institution. The creditors' position should be closed and the opinion of independent valuers should be obtained. This is a criterion for all of them, so I am convinced that this provision is neither in substance nor in terms of regulation. Overall, I thank you for the supporting proposals, and I would like to ask that all parliamentary parties support this as a priority, with the current objective of this draft law. Thank you for your attention, thank you for your opportunity, Mr President.
u2015-06-11-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members of two things: firstly, that, by giving Mr János Fónagy the opportunity to make the closing opportunity, I closed the general debate; and secondly, that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 today. Thank you very much. A general discussion of the bill amending the rules for the distribution and targeted use of the quota revenue of the emission trading system for the Hungarian State will follow. The submission is T/4819. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. The author of the bill is Mr Zsolt Szabó, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development. You have a 30-minute window of time for Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-11-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, The bill before us contains changes to the regulation defining the aspirations of domestic climate policy, the tasks, the implementation and the conditionality of the emissions trading system. The bill organises sectoral arrangements for the allocation of quota revenue under the Finance Act, which will be carried over between the Ministry of National Development and the Ministry of National Economy. In line with the budgetary requirements, the proposal sets out at a legal level the use of quota revenue for a specific purpose and also clarifies the number of persons responsible for the implementation and coordination of so-called derogation tasks. The aim of the derogation is to encourage large electricity producers to use higher energy efficiency technologies and to grant electricity producers one-off State aid allowed under the derogation through preferential quota allocation. The aim of the allocation is to support public and EU implementation of the investments identified during the derogation in order to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions in this sector, which are responsible for warming as a return on investment, if you like. As the Minister for Energy Policy is responsible, inter alia, for the development and implementation of energy policy programmes, it is in any event justified to return these tasks from the Minister for Public Finance to the Minister responsible for energy policy. The National Accreditation Board shall also carry out the tasks applicable under Union law and concerning emission trading arrangements. The amendment contained in the bill aims to ensure the principle of mutual recognition in respect of verifiers registered in other EU Member States but active in Hungary, thereby abolishing the registration by the National Accreditation Board required to process foreign verification organisations in Hungary. Other amendments, including those contained in the bill, will specify in particular the powers of the ministers involved in climate policy in the context of international and EU commitments. The sections of sectoral laws concerning climate policy were last amended by the Honourable Parliament at the beginning of 2013. In the period since then, international climate policy efforts and objectives have been highlighted: climate policy has become an integral part of energy policy and has become a key player in economic policy at all. A number of tasks under the responsibility of the Minister for Energy Policy have not been regulated by law, have not yet taken place, and the amendment will also address these shortcomings overall. I ask the Honourable Parliament that the T/4819. Submit a bill submitted to the European Parliament and to the Council and then support it. I would also like to thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-11-60	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will follow; in the first round, the speaker will be Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-11-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We are the first generation to feel the effects of climate change, and we are the last generation to do anything about it. I have already brought the sentence of President János Barack Obama Áder here before my fellow Members. [[12.10]] More and more people today seem to realize the significance of this. Changes in our environment, events and their severe impact on our lives, on our daily lives warn us that it is not a toy that we face that cannot be dealt with with with the tasks we are facing, a struggle with a shrug. However, shock is not enough; action is needed, both at individual and Community level. Successful action against climate change can be achieved through the broadest possible cooperation between countries. Nor does the international community dispute this fact. This year is in the spirit of climate change and sustainability. Years ago, the preparatory work started with the Hungarian co-chair, which led to the formulation of sustainable development goals. The adoption of the UN Resolution containing these by Heads of State or Government is expected to be closely monitored by the international public. This is the biggest and waiting interest in the subject only surrounds the Paris Climate Summit and its preparation. The long-term agreement on the future of mankind, the Paris Climate Summit, is expected to take place in December this year. If the major powers responsible for half of the EU's CO2 emissions, such as the United States, China and India, do not reduce their pollution and change their approach, then we and our offspring will face irreversible consequences that threaten our civilization. A number of initiatives have been launched to ensure the success of the Paris Climate Summit. I have already mentioned to my fellow Members the Nobel Prize-winning climate campaign of former Vice-President Al Gore. The essence of this is to reach about a billion people and encourage them to raise their voices in order to protect our planet. President János Áder joined the campaign among the first. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Parliament also feels the increasing attention, in several cases it has dealt with climate change and sustainability issues. In the spring session, we discussed a number of proposals concerning climate policy and energy policy. For example, T/4020 was adopted on 28 April. The UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol established a single charging scheme for those engaged in greenhouse gas activities and regulated the quality of the operation of the National Climate Protection Authority. T/4582 was adopted on 12 May. Legislative proposal No 1 to ensure the necessary regulation to meet the national energy efficiency targets in line with the EU directives. The EU target is to achieve a 20% energy efficiency improvement by 2020. The Doha Amendment, i.e. the second Kyoto Protocol, was adopted on 27 May T/4636 with a view to its publication, legal compliance and implementation. Bill No. 1. On 2 June, the Government presented the Second National Climate Change Strategy. Ladies and gentlemen, EU countries are exemplary at global level in the fight against climate change. This is also linked to the legislative proposal before us, which aims to review the regulation defining domestic climate policy efforts and tasks, as well as the implementation and conditionality of the emissions trading system. In line with EU and international legal aspirations, it clarifies domestic legal provisions, ensures compliance with regulatory obligations arising from EU law, while at the same time simplifying domestic climate policy's role as a public authority. The EU ETS aims to contribute to the EU Member States' commitments to limit or reduce greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective way. By allowing participating companies to buy allowances, the costs associated with the implementation of emission reductions are also lower. The EU ETS is at the heart of the EU's strategy to combat climate change. At global level, this is the first international CO2 trading system to cover not only the 27 Member States, but also the three other members of the European Economic Area, namely Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein. It currently includes more than ten thousand installations in the energy and industrial sectors, which together account for almost half of the EU's CO2 emissions and 40% of its total greenhouse gas emissions. In October 2014, EU leaders agreed on other key factors in the 2030 policy framework to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% in Hungary by 2030. One of the objectives is to make the European Union's economy and energy system more competitive, secure and sustainable. Another driving force is to achieve the 2030 target of 27 per cent renewable energy and energy savings. [[In the notary seat Attila Móring József will be replaced by László Földi.]] The EU ETS will be revised as part of the post-2020 legislative framework. The EU is responsible for around 10% of global emissions and will continue to decline in the coming decades. An international policy response is needed to tackle climate change. The bill before us focuses on five essential points to achieve the goals. The first objective is to settle the allocation of quota revenues. One element of this is that it intends to settle the allocation of quota revenues between NFM and NGM and their targeted use in the two climate policy sectoral laws. This is done in a way that is consistent with EU and international provisions. And another element of it will remedy a problem of coherence. The two sectoral laws referred to in the Finance Act are currently not coherent with budgetary provisions, so it is absolutely necessary to align sectoral regulation with budgetary regulation. The second objective is to identify the persons responsible for the tasks of derogation. As Mr Secretary of State has said, derogation is an important tool to increase energy efficiency and, together with it, to reduce greenhouse gases. The point of the amendment is that, at the initiative of the NGM, the NFM will take back the tasks related to the free allocation of quotas to electricity producers. Ladies and gentlemen, The third objective is to settle the task of the National Accreditation Board. The amendment allows, as Mr Secretary of State has said, the exercise of the principle of mutual recognition in respect of certification bodies notified in other EU Member States but active in Hungary. At the same time, it abolishes the registration by the National Accreditation Board required to process foreign verification organisations in Hungary, which in practice caused confusion and confusion among operators and certification bodies accredited abroad. The fourth objective is to take responsibility for international climate policy tasks. This is because, in recent years, international climate policy efforts and objectives have had a stronger role to play. Climate action has become an integral part of energy policy. Many of the tasks of the Minister for Energy have not yet been defined by law. The amendment fills this gap. The fifth objective is to amend the allocation of other aviation quotas. On the basis of the documents on the allocation of aviation quotas published and applied by the European Commission, the proposal makes an amendment to clarify the air traffic rules within the European Union's emissions trading system. [[12.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, We are living in a year of challenges and tasks, followed by the sentence quoted at the beginning of my speech, which says: "We are the first generation to feel the effects of climate change, and we are the last generation to do anything about it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-11-62	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. We will continue with the keynote speech: the lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Congresswoman Márta Demeter. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-11-63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Under the current budgetary provisions, the Minister for Public Finance and the Minister for Energy Policy may commit up to 50-50 per cent of the aviation allowances established by the Law on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading scheme and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision, up to 25-25 per cent of the cash-flow revenue from the sale of allowances to installations in the economic greening scheme and the financing system for the green economy. According to the Finance Act, 50-50 percent of the revenue generated by the transfer of Kyoto units established under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol implementing framework is also eligible for a decision by the Minister for Public Finance and the Minister for Energy Policy in order to achieve one or more of the objectives set out in Article 10 of Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council. However, the two sectoral laws defining the purpose for which quota revenues are used are currently not coherent with budgetary provisions, so there is a need for sectoral regulation to be aligned with budgetary regulation. In addition to the above, the other amending provisions of the proposal set out the powers of ministers with an impact and function in climate policy in the context of international and EU commitments and make adjustments to ensure that EU and international legal standards and agreements are properly complied with. In our opinion, the solutions and amendments to the bill are correct, but in the last five years the Orbán government's extremely flawed quota sales practices mean that, under these market conditions, the total value of the domestic Kyoto units is almost HUF 800 million. This could probably be the reason why the proposal is set out in Article 4. By way of derogation from previous practice, it undertakes that Hungary will provide the source of its international climate finance commitment from the proceeds from the sale of European greenhouse gas emission allowances. This is the source that the State could currently use to continue the panel programme. We think that it would be a real reduction in the cost of spending such resources and these resources on the panel programme, for example. Therefore, given that this principle is extremely flawed and that some of the European units and revenues are intended to be allocated to non-domestic energy efficiency programmes by the government, the legislative amendment is not supported by the MSZP parliamentary group. Thank you.
u2015-06-11-64	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Lajos Kepli. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-11-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The Jobbik for Hungary movement can support the bill as it stands, and agrees with the objectives of the bill. I note that the first part of the proposal, in which it amends certain regulations of the Act on the National Accreditation Board, so that the foreign equivalent accredited body must also be accepted as a certification body, becomes meaningless from 1 January 2016 on the basis of a bill submitted before yesterday, because this bill, submitted by Mr Kristóf Szatmáry during the day before yesterday - and is already available on Parliament's system - would terminate the National Accreditation Board on 1 January 2016 and would refer the tasks of the body to the authority of the State, the Minister for Industry. This is just a parentheses note, because it is obviously just a bill for this year, not even adopted, but even if it is accepted, it still applies to next year, but the fact is that it will require a rethink of these parts of the bill. Obviously, it can be added to the same line that now this National Accreditation Board has to recognise on a mandatory basis the certification system of other organisations accredited under the European accreditation system. With regard to quota revenues, it has already been decided at EU level that 50% of quota revenues should be turned back to the operation of the green economy development system. Well, how these systems and the resources that exist in this system will be used is what we look forward to. In any case, as we have already seen at the meeting of the 2016 budget, this has significantly increased the framework that is available for this purpose in the following year or in the following years. We can only very much hope that this will be used in a way that is indeed moving the economy towards low-carbon technologies and environmental and energy-efficient technologies and towards investment, because unfortunately, at the moment, this is not so visible. It is obvious that, in part, there is a lack of resources, but in part, I also see political unmotivation behind this phenomenon. We hope that this will be replaced in the future, at least from the sources' side. Obviously, these should be used much more efficiently, but the fact that the bill, with a principled decision, seeks to provide an opportunity for Hungary to use 50% of its quota revenues for this purpose in accordance with EU legislation, and the other 50 percent is certainly welcomed by the Minister for National Economy within the framework of the economic greening system. But once again or many times I say that the test of pudding is eating, so what will come of it, how effective these resources will be, will be the question of the future, and in the future we will find out how these projects will actually be embodied. There is a need for greening the economy in Hungary, whether it is in the energy sector that we look at the efficiency gains of power plants, the increased expansion of renewable energy sources, the building sector, the improvement of energy efficiency indicators should be quite radical in the coming years. There is also a lot of investment to be done in building engineering, and the industry itself needs to be made more energy efficient and greener, not just the residential sector, but also the public sector. There is huge potential for development everywhere, so in fact there is the opportunity for Hungary to achieve CO2 reductions by overachieving its commitments in the coming years, decades, if the government's intention goes in this direction and continues here. So we will now support this bill to give the government a chance to really go in this direction. However, as has been the case, we are constantly focusing our attention on the government's activities, and we will continue to use every means outside Parliament and Parliament to get the government to do so, or to check the government's ability to implement these goals, or to remain empty words and sound ideas. [[12.30]] At the moment, if we look at what measures have been taken in recent years to include renewable energy equipment in the environmental product charge or other tax policy measures - even the 27 percent VAT that applies to these green economy or renewable energy installations - then there are several tax policy measures that do not help us to move in this direction. These should be coordinated. This now provides the framework for the use of quota revenues, but also in tax policy we should create an environment that moves our country towards a carbon-neutral Hungarian economy and industry, as well as a much greener and more energy-efficient Hungarian economy and industry for future generations. As Mónika Bartos has said very positively in his speech, I would very much like to see the theory that came over from my fellow Member's speech become indeed a daily practice of the government. Unfortunately, I see many differences, but I very much hope that we opposition parties will have so much effect in the future, or perhaps have a much more impact on the government in this regard, so that this is finally a practice and a reality. If this fails, it will be the responsibility of a next government after 2018. But don't say that Jobbik was the obstacle to the government starting in this direction, and therefore in terms of the spirit we have always said that we support and support any proposal that Hungary, the Hungarian people, will benefit from. Thank you.
u2015-06-11-66	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2015-06-11-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, With everything that my colleague Mónika Bartos has said about the gravity and problems of climate change, I fully agree, and I also agree with the fact that serious international efforts are being made to stop climate change and to find the means to do so. And now I'm going to say, "The right tool system is very important in order for this to happen." The bill seems to clarify the use of state revenues generated by the sale of Kyoto units, i.e. CO2 emissions. However, this is only the appearance, the Hungarian government trades with Kyoto units inaccessible and uncontrollable, and the use of revenues does not meet the minimum requirements of transparency and parliamentary and social control. It should be noted that the primary objective of trading with allowances is not to increase public revenues, but to reduce pollution. This objective can be best served by quota trading on the basis of international practice and rules if, on the one hand, transactions are perfectly transparent and, on the other hand, all revenues are guaranteed and transparently funded by projects to reduce CO2 emissions for customers. Moreover, not only does the original environmental intention require targeted and transparent use, but also the financial interests of the Hungarian State and taxpayers. An allowance is a special product the price of which is increased by transparency and normal use. In other words, the more it can be guaranteed and verified that the government will use revenues exclusively to reduce greenhouse gas production, the more expensive it will be to sell quotas. At the same time, the Hungarian government's practice does not comply with the above requirements, and it causes taxpayers serious harm in billions, while it does not meet the environmental objectives. The Orbán government treats quota revenue as if it were some kind of budgetary reserve. It doesn't sell units when the highest price can be achieved, but when the budget suddenly needs money, and instead of climate protection, it spends the revenue to patch the budget holes, thereby making the Hungarian quotas even less expensive. This harmful and mournful practice began not recently and not during the 2010 government change, but during the 2008 economic crisis, i.e. the Gyurcsány, Bajnai and Orbán governments are equally responsible for maintaining it. The responsibility of the current cabinet is so much greater that they have been operating an environmentally and financially unsustainable system for the last five years. However, the sale of Kyoto quotas could have been a success story in Hungary, since significant quota assets and the appropriate legislative background were also available, first in the region. As a result, in 2008 the state was able to obtain a quota revenue of HUF 28 billion at a relatively good price for meaningful purposes. However, the encouragingly launched process has been halted, as instead of the proper operation of the green investment system, the budget has absorbed the amounts received, even because of the crisis, but this harmful practice has continued. In the meantime, the Orbán government has already developed the very wrong attitude of subordination of quota sales to current budget needs, which, for example, caused the state to lose at least HUF 5 billion on poorly timed sales in 2011-2012. Last year there were serious losses, also due to bad timing, 4 billion forints less quota revenue than planned. At the same time, as I referred to earlier, not only the sale of quotas, but also the use of revenue is problematic. According to the law, the proceeds should be used in accordance with the national climate change strategy. But NÉS is such a comprehensive collection of desires that it can be used for almost all public expenditures. Thus, spending is in line with the climate change strategy. However, this does not affect customers. Today, Hungarian quotas do not count as currencies, high-value goods, as the Orbán government is not a reliable seller. For quotas to be worth more in money and also in terms of the environmental impact of revenues, a transparent record of sales, the momentary position of the quota assets, the transactions that have taken place and the planned transactions would be required. In addition, the full set of objectives and functioning of the green investment system and the economic greening system should be rethinked. If these resources are to be used effectively and convincingly by the government for the purchase of allowances, they should not be financed by State investments with various uncertain effects, but by programmes that reduce CO2 emissions by the final user, i.e. the population, following international good practices. In other words, normative, transparent support for public energy efficiency-enhancing and renewable investments is needed precisely what Fidesz has promised in its 2010 electoral and government programme, but has not been willing to implement since then. It follows that the bill cannot be supported by the LMP, not primarily because of what is in it, but because of what is lacking in it. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-11-68	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I am asking my fellow Members, because the main speaker group is over to see if anyone else wishes to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Zsolt Szabó State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-06-11-69	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to tell you which five elements this law actually contains, which is the case at all. On the one hand, the accounting of quota revenue in the two Climate Policy Sectoral Laws on the NFM-NGM website, the terms of transfer and return related to the derogation, the acceptance of the proposal of the National Accreditation Board, which concerns the recognition of international accreditation organisations, the impact and responsibilities between ministers in the context of international and EU commitments, and the amendment of the legal rules in the area of legislation arising from EU law. These five regulations are purely net legislation. However, some questions have been raised, on the one hand, by my fellow Member, Mr Demeter, on the other hand, brought up the panel programme. I would just like to point out that in the next period, around HUF 240 billion was put out in the form of a tender for the renovation of residential properties, renewable energy and other things, for direct use by the public. [[12.40]] Thank you very much for your support, of course, to my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kepli. I would just like to indicate that what has so far been made quota revenue, we are at the fifth element of the program "Home Hot" and I would like to tell LMP that there is a boiler change, a window change, a cooling machine change, now we have the washing machine change and the panel program, this is all green revenue. All this comes from quota sales, and that is what we are going to do to a very large extent with our aforementioned family house and real estate renovation program. The government has committed itself to the program "Home Gay" and we will take it further. While sharing quotas, the relationship between NGM and NFM, I would just like to highlight that NGM has the issue of electric cars, the NFM has the energy of buildings, renewable energy and this issue, and the heat of home programme reflects this in its entirety. My colleague Erzsébet Schmuck made an interesting remark. It indicated that if we sell more quotas, we can spend more on climate protection, and therefore we can sell even more quotas. Unfortunately, it's not. Let us look at the time of the 2008 economic crisis, when the whole quota system fell apart, and let us look at how the whole quota distribution system will be transformed and sold or not before the Paris Conference. Everyone's waiting. So, unfortunately, this also works like the foreign exchange law or currency accounts, and it works like a stock exchange, not like a common peasant logic. I wish that was how it would work. I would just like to say to my dear fellow Member of the LMP that what the European Union and what we have already undertaken at the UN climate conference, Hungary has met all the requirements and all the indicators, and we can continue to meet them in the future. There are areas where we have fulfilled our next two or three years of regulations. We can and will comply with the 2020 standards, and we will keep this. The question of the climate strategy and what I use the quota for is precisely the heat of the home programme, the biggest justification in this direction is that the quota will be used in the right direction. Otherwise, it is not under some covert, dark shroud that the quota is cleared, every year Parliament and the government receive a report from this area, and it is accounted for in a clear and transparent manner. The final user is the population. I think that the government does not want to use a refrigerator, nor does it want to use a washing machine, but I think that we also have the renovation of the panel houses, and we want to renovate as much of this as possible, and this also supports savings for the population. In view of all this, the fact that five legal regulations are actually being clarified, so that harmony is restored between legislation, laws and budgets, will be appropriate. I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-11-70	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. The general debate on the draft legislation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Iceland, of the other part, on the participation of Iceland in the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland, is now taking place until closure. The submission was made in T/4836. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute timeframe. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-11-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, The aim of the bill before us is to promote the agreement between the European Union and Iceland on participation in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the Parties during the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol. The Agreement was signed by the Parties, including Hungary, on 4 March 2015. Hungary has supported the conclusion of the agreement from the beginning, which could bring many benefits to our country and thus also bring many benefits to the European Union itself. The so-called Doha Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change on 8 December 2012 decided to amend the Kyoto Protocol to the Framework Convention, establishing a commitment period under the Protocol from 1 January 13 to 31 December 2020. All countries, including the European Union, are legally committed here. The aim is to reduce emissions and we have undertaken these commitments in the targets. Iceland has joined this agreement, which we welcome. It is perhaps the most important part of the Agreement itself to define the tasks, the relevant conditions and the effectiveness of the participation of Iceland in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland during the second commitment period of the Protocol, including Iceland's contribution to the fulfilment of the reporting obligations for the Union during the second commitment period of the Protocol. Let us not forget that all of Iceland's emission data must be public, so it must be available. The purpose of the bill before you is to declare this agreement together with the law and thus make it official. I ask this House to support the bill and to ensure that it is announced together. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-11-72	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the Members, including the keynote speakers. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2015-06-11-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At the previous item on the agenda, we discussed carbon emission quotas, which is what this item relates to, since the Kyoto Convention is the basis for this whole emission quota system. Well, on 8 December 2012, as we heard from the Secretary of State here, the Kyoto Convention to reduce greenhouse gas emissions was extended by the UN Climate Conference in Qatar by eight years until 2020. The preamble to the joint declaration in Doha states that the emission limitation and reduction obligations are based on the assumption that the commitments will be met jointly at EU level, i.e. the common emissions should be limited or respected, not the specific values set for the Member States. The purpose of the Agreement is to define the conditions governing Iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland during the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, with a view to ensuring effectiveness, including the fulfilment of Iceland's reporting obligation, in the Union, i.e. all CO2 emissions data should remain available in the future. This emissions are currently around 18-19 million tonnes. In the light of all this, I ask the honourable Members to support the law before us on the announcement of this international agreement, which will be supported by the Fidesz faction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]] [[12.50]]
u2015-06-11-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mrs Márta Demeter. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-11-75	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The Joint Declaration of 8 December 2012 in Doha states that the quantitatively defined emission limitation and reduction commitments for the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol for the European Union, its Member States, Croatia and Iceland will be implemented jointly. The purpose of this Agreement is to define the conditions governing Iceland's participation in the joint fulfilment of the obligations of the European Union, its Member States and Iceland during the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, including its contribution to the fulfilment of the reporting obligations of the Union. A further objective is to make all emissions data from Iceland available, representing approximately 18 to 19 million tonnes. The MSZP fraction will support the adoption of the bill. Thank you.
u2015-06-11-76	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr State Secretary if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Zsolt Szabó: In short.]] Yes, a brief reply from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2015-06-11-77	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the adoption of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-11-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. The 1997 CLV on consumer protection follows. Act XXXIV of 2004 on small and medium-sized enterprises and support for their development General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/4820. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-11-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, In the interests of consumers, the European Union and Hungary's consumer protection policy have provided for the strengthening of the role and quality of dispute settlement procedures, which are an alternative to legal proceedings. The purpose of the amendment to the Consumer Protection Act is to transpose EU rules and to assist the consumer in his or her dispute with the contractor in the purchase or use of a product. Since 1999, there has been an independent conciliation body in Hungary alongside the Budapest and County Chambers of Commerce and Industry, which helps to resolve disputes between consumers and businesses and to reach an agreement. These conciliation panel procedures provide an out-of-court and free of charge to consumers. Balancing body procedures play a significant role in enforcing consumer needs, and their functioning alleviates the additional burden on courts. Consumers turn to conciliation bodies with increasing confidence, the number of cases increases year after year, while in 2006 some 3,500 cases were discussed, more than 10,000 cases in 2014, and the conciliation body closed. The data support an increase in the role of conciliation bodies and the fact that discussions can be resolved much more easily and quickly. We want to make the conciliation body procedure more known, more efficient and more transparent so as to increase their role and simplify consumers' day-to-day orientation. It is a significant change in the law that, in order to ensure the active participation of undertakings in conciliation procedures, companies are obliged to make a written declaration on the request submitted by the consumer and to send a representative to be heard who is entitled to conclude the agreement, i.e. the undertaking. In any event, businesses will have to appear in the conciliation panel procedure in the future, thus, on the basis of the experience of the past 16 years, the advice of the parties to the same table will have a greater opportunity to reach a settlement. Enterprises that ignore the conciliation panel procedure will be required to impose fines in the future, so that the conciliation bodies will have more power and greater opportunity to involve businesses in the proceedings. Last year, the company did not cooperate in a total of 2,566 procedures, i.e. the number of consumer complaints in the case of alternative dispute resolution has not been resolved. The government's aim is to ensure that no consumer complaint is left unheeded and that any solution is in any event found in these procedures. Under the current regulations of the law, the fine for businesses is HUF 15 000, but any fine is not intended, but it is expected that, with the prospect of sanctions, entrepreneurs will show a more positive attitude during the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, The reason for these amendments is to strengthen and amend the law in this direction to ensure strict regulatory action against undertakings that do not work together with conciliation bodies. These companies could not be persuaded to carry out their duties on the condition of the so-called blacklist, and the hopes attached to them did not achieve this result, which is why strict accountability is now needed. Technical procedures concerning conciliation bodies are also included in the bill, such as registration with the Minister for Consumer Protection, the operation of an up-to-date website presenting information on the procedure and the preparation of reports to the European Commission. Dear Parliament, The bill aims to implement EU requirements on the one hand and to promote effective consumer enforcement on the other. The Government aims to improve the system of conciliation bodies, to increase their efficiency and to protect consumers' rights as much as possible. On all these grounds, in view of all this, I would like to ask my fellow Members that the T/4820 be adopted. Please support and adopt a legislative proposal marked "No 1'. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-11-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be followed by the speakers, including the keynote speakers. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr István Németh Szilárd. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-11-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill aims primarily - as Mr State Secretary mentioned - to amend the legislative provisions on conciliation bodies in order to bring them into line with the EU directives. The general justification shows that the role of conciliation bodies in the peaceful settlement of disputes between consumers and businesses has become increasingly important. The number of conciliation bodies has increased by nearly 20 percent over the past period, until the Financial Reconciliation Board was established in 2011, with a significant share of consumer issues being transferred. One of the most important elements of the bill is that participation in conciliation bodies procedures should also be mandatory for businesses in the future, representing a person authorised to negotiate a settlement. The need for this measure is confirmed, inter alia, by the fact that the masses of undertakings have not even sent the reply to the conciliation bodies. There was also no positive shift after the establishment of the blacklist or the extension of the authority's powers to do so, as Mr State Secretary said. Under the Directive, businesses should be motivated as far as possible to resolve consumer disputes in a peaceful manner. However, the obligation to submit a reply is also required to make it compulsory to appear in the negotiations, in which the undertaking is obliged to inform the conciliation body of its position on the consumer dispute. [[13.00]] The conciliation body shall inform the undertaking in writing of the risks and consequences of the breach of the obligation to cooperate. In the event of non-compliance, the minimum fine for SMEs is HUF 15 000. In addition, due to the practical application of the EU regulation, the conciliation body, which operates alongside the Budapest Chamber of Commerce and Industry, has the exclusive competence to deal with online consumer disputes relating to cross-border sales and service contracts. The bill also lays down a number of additional requirements for conciliation bodies, such as a website with specific data content and compulsory training and further training of members of the conciliation body. Let's look at the benefits of adopting this legislation. Consumers can expect significant energy savings and substantial money savings from this, as the conciliation panel procedure is an out-of-court and free of charge for consumers to resolve the dispute between the consumer and the business, so that the consumer settles its financial disadvantage with the undertaking, resolves the dispute within a short period of three to four months. The conciliation panel procedure can therefore be used free of charge and an alternative, so-called out-of-court dispute resolution forum available throughout the country. On the other hand, judicial enforcement can be lengthy, even multi-annual, for this procedure, costly procedural fees, legal representation fees, professional costs, and, in any event, benefits consumers from changing the legislation on the functioning of conciliation bodies. In particular, the National Consumer Protection Authority will have to pay attention here, and I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this legislation will only be worth something if, by the way, consumers and, of course, businesses are seriously informed about this. Businesses also benefit from this conciliation body procedure, as consumers are expected to increase consumer confidence and the spread of the reputation of businesses, which will facilitate the proper functioning of the market, in addition to savings that can be expressed in cash for consumers. It also has a beneficial impact on the public institution system, since conciliation bodies play a huge role in consumer protection enforcement, their existence alleviates the burden on justice and provide practical and cost-effective dispute resolution on the part of the enterprise and the consumer. Consumers turn with increasing confidence to the domestic conciliation bodies, which is supported by the increasing number of cases each year. Thus, consumers have been okay with turning to the conciliation body, for example, in 2006, 3542 cases were discussed, while 10 210 cases were closed in 2014, in addition to the two thousand and six hundred and one cases mentioned by the Secretary of State. Each year, the State supports the functioning of the conciliation bodies with the amount laid down in the Finance Act, the 2015 budget includes HUF 360 million for this period. This amount is distributed among the conciliation bodies in proportion to the number of cases. The State is responsible for the effective use of budgetary support and it is therefore essential that as many cases as possible be resolved. The amendment will also strengthen this objective and serve it. On the basis of the above, I would like to ask my fellow Members, the factions, to support the bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-11-82	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Csaba Tóth. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-11-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, As a member of the European Union's community, it must be enforced that wherever citizens buy in the Union, they must be sure that they will be protected effectively. It is important to have a kind of integration and awareness of consumer rights in civil thinking, and it is important that the dimension of consumer law application is widened, since every citizen of Hungary is a consumer in its own way, and therefore they have the right to protection, information and participation in related procedures. Member States, including Hungary, must follow a consumer policy that strengthens the position of consumers. This principle of principle is also to be achieved by a recognised Community policy, by ensuring a high level of consumer protection, through a more effective representation of consumer interests. In addition to the metropolitan and county chambers of commerce and industry, reconciliation bodies operate in this service. Under the Consumer Protection Act, conciliation bodies were allowed to start operating from 1 January 1999. The fundamental purpose and function of the panel's procedure is to attempt to settle disputes on a negotiated basis between the consumer and the entity, where this is not possible, in order to decide whether to enforce consumer rights quickly, effectively and easily. The home reconciliation body is available free of charge and is available in about 20 locations throughout the country. It shall have the power to settle a dispute between the consumer and the undertaking concerning the quality, safety of the product, the application of product liability rules, the quality of the service and the conclusion and performance of a contract between the parties outside the court. It also shows that reconciliation bodies represent one of the most important pillars of consumer protection. The work of bodies with more than 16 years of professional experience is essential. By joining the EU, we have taken alternative forms of dispute resolution, and it is also part of the programme that the government has already put forward, according to which alternative dispute resolution, the search for alternative solutions, will be supported and given priority. It is doing this because an alternative dispute resolution forum that is becoming increasingly popular among consumers is fast, efficient, simple and cheap and accessible to all. In addition to the Chambers, representatives of chambers and social organisations representing consumer organisations participate equally in an independent body of 10-30 persons. This ensures their professionalism. The mediation they represent is a special means of dispute resolution, the essence of which is that an independent third party or an independent acting council will help to resolve the conflict between the parties by trying to lead the parties to recognise their interests. When considering the motives of the opposing party, it points to the expectation of mutual benefit. The cases that come to the conciliation bodies are typically low in court, are essentially 20-30 thousand forints in size and are about bad, defective consumer goods. The work of reconciliation bodies is useful and essential. However, this requires renting an office, paying infrastructure, maintaining infrastructure and providing them with sufficient resources. The purpose of the bill before us is to transpose a directive of the European Union by 9 July 2015. This requires the establishment of a legal framework for the functioning of ADR entities, thereby laying down new requirements for conciliation bodies and businesses. The proposal is in line with Article M of the Fundamental Law of Hungary in order to ensure fair economic competition, Hungary takes action against abuse of dominant position and protects consumers' rights. On the basis of the bill, several instruments have been identified to promote cooperation obligations. Businesses were not obliged to appear in these forums before, but eight out of ten entrepreneurs came, however, because they realized that it was worth building on a recurring customer base and being consumer-friendly. The bill before us clarifies the obligation to send a reply to businesses. The company involved in the consumer dispute will be required to send a reply in the conciliation panel procedure on the merits of the consumer's position and the substance of the case. Following the adoption of the bill, the undertaking must also ensure the participation of a person authorised to enter into an agreement in the proceedings. This is also adapted to the purpose of the procedure. It introduces strict regulation and a judicial obligation to cooperate with businesses. [[13.10]] However, if this cooperation obligation is violated, the draft will provide for the possibility of imposing a mandatory fine, which will result in fines ranging from 15 thousand to 500 thousand forints for small and medium-sized enterprises that do not appear before the conciliation body. This amount may amount to up to 2 per cent of the annual revenue for the multinationals. The proposal also regulates that the conciliation body, which operates alongside the Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce and Industry, has exclusive competence to deal with online consumer disputes relating to cross-border sales and service contracts. The proposal also covers the setting of a number of additional requirements for conciliation bodies. For example, conciliation bodies are obliged to maintain a website with specific data content, and conciliation bodies should initiate their inclusion in the list led by the Minister for Consumer Protection, which is contained in the Directive in order to ensure uniform high quality for ADR entities across Europe. It also includes provisions on compulsory training of members of the conciliation bodies in order to promote the quality of the conciliation bodies. Dear Parliament, It is worth stopping and comparing the case numbers of conciliation bodies and the available support over the last five years. In 2010 there were 7456 cases, the previous government allocated HUF 375 million to the operation of the bodies. In 2011, the government ordered HUF 200 million for 7874 cases, which finally increased to HUF 300 million. In 2012, the case number showed an increase, since it was 8388 pieces, but the budget resources decreased significantly to HUF 100 million as originally planned. Much less budget support has been explained by a reduction in the powers of the conciliation bodies. As is known, as of 1 July 2011, the type of case relating to financial insurance disputes was removed from the competence of the reconciliation bodies in favour of county, capital and industrial chambers and transferred to the State Supervisory Board of Financial Institutions. Currently, the Financial Reconciliation Board, which operates alongside the Hungarian National Bank, has exclusive competence in these matters. Allowing violent protests from the bodies, the budget was adopted with a grant of 400 million. In 2013, the case number was 9026 pieces and the state aid was HUF 360 million. The same amount of resources was available in 2014 in addition to the 10 210 cases, while in 2015 the State provided HUF 316.8 million in support. The recently submitted budget for next year shows a slight increase in the amount of HUF 330 million in 2016. As the case numbers show, no one disputes that consumer protection has a very big role to play on conciliation bodies, as in many cases consumers' last, realistic and tangible opportunity to resolve their disputes and complaints. There is no doubt about the role of our country's reconciliation bodies in consumer protection. The previous government has taken a number of measures in order to increase the number of conciliation bodies each year and to create a greater prestige of conciliation bodies, but we regret that this is not so much of a matter of heart at the moment. However, in order for reconciliation bodies to play their role, it is necessary to examine how and how it is possible to achieve a more effective functioning for consumers. Well-functioning alternative procedures encourage consumers to look for solutions to problems in purchasing products and using services. The bill is likely to prevent 3,000 customers from resolving their complaint in a short and inexpensive way every year because the other party is not a partner. The proposed legislation is agreed and supported by the MSZP fraction, but it is important to mention that while it has previously been a separate Committee for Consumer Protection, it has not received a greater emphasis in the current term, contrary to the government's promise, although the proposal also supports the need for consumer protection in consumer society than previously. Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]]
u2015-06-11-84	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2015-06-11-85	Mr President, Dear House, We are all pleased when a bill of consumer protection comes before us at last, because while in the previous government cycle this was a priority area - there was a separate consumer protection committee during the National Assembly - unfortunately, according to the decision of Fidesz-KDNP, we are no longer talking about such a committee in this term. In addition to many other areas, this has also been integrated into the Economic Committee, where, although we are involved in the discussions with consumer protection components, it is still indicative if its own committee operates on this whole issue. We can also see that the amazing mass of goods entering the Hungarian market cannot be investigated by lot, obviously we must have a healthy and fast, efficient, precise tracking system that can intervene without delay in the event of errors or maladministration. That is why, since the bill before us basically supports this line, even if we can argue with various details, we must say that we must support what lies before us, but it is very important that we feel the inclusive intention in relation to our improved amendments, and we can feel that they are the only way to ensure full progress. The data for 2013 is available in the last round, when it was found that 3.5 million Hungarians bought at least once over the Internet, so we are talking about a huge customer crowd, and obviously the volume of goods in this context is enormous, since only the volume of Hungarian e-commerce could be estimated at HUF 217 billion during the period concerned. It is a direct consequence and a direct consequence that defective consumer goods, defective products, and we are not thinking of foreign exchange loans, but rather of real physical defective products and the appearance of goods brought here from abroad that can be treated as junk at all, has become a mass, and therefore the need for subsequent intervention is clearly raised. The question is how the principle to be supported is that, let's say, at a conciliation panel hearing, a competent person should appear, thus facilitating this agreement, how this will spread out within the social groups involved, so where will customers find out about it, and how, and how, will companies and executives know, to take this system more seriously, because now some sanctions will be put in place. It should be noted that since the bill before us is not the government's own idea, it has an element of implementation in the European Union, so it is something that is obviously not invented by the government, so we need to look at which witches' kitchen these ideas were born. And I would like to draw attention to the fact that we do not go in a direction such as the European Consumer Centre, which is essentially a postman's role, but in relation to what is needed in Hungary, because in Hungary, if we look at the cases, the case numbers, we see that even if there is no agreement with the conciliation body, the vast majority of companies will take the recommendation made into account either in relation to the current case or later, so that we will be able to introduce economic purification mechanisms into this system that will be beneficial in the long term. We would therefore like to make sure that Hungary's government does not think about translating the Brussels dictatorship and trying to introduce the same alkaline system in Hungary, and I hope that is not the aim, but we can say that the Hungarian system could be much more sophisticated, much more effective than what we have invented abroad. So it is obvious that we expect to come up with an absolutely life-smelling system according to Hungarian needs. What is the reason why this is necessary? Until 2011, the number of cases showed an average increase of 20 per cent in the bodies concerned, since then there has been a slight halt, especially as a result of the mutilation and impairment of responsibilities, which obviously includes a reduction in the level of budget allocation, but it can be said that if we try to move towards fair competition in Hungary, then we are not sure that the budget support package that should be included in the conciliation bodies will be sufficient. This increase could have already been justified during the budgetary debate, but beyond the budgetary debate, the government has scope to intervene and to help these bodies become more effective simply by assigning the necessary resources. [[13.20]] What we have to say, however, and it is a systemic problem, consumer protection, as such, has worked at least at a framework level with its various bodies in the previous government cycle. Since then, we have seen that not only the Consumer Protection Committee has ceased and become part of the Economic Commission, but we also see that, as we say, various supervisory elements have been incorporated into the Hungarian National Bank, some of the consumer protection is also a big part of the financial sector, and since then we have seen that the MNB has quasi-absorbed these areas, while no one controls the MNB itself. The most ideal condition would be if the National Assembly could exercise control in some form - but it is obvious that there could be a very long debate of faith about this - but it is definitely a need for the Hungarian National Bank to have a supervisory board. There have been allegations here that opposition parties cannot agree on the composition of delegates. It's over. So this agreement is practically and I am aware of it, which is why we feel the immediate need for someone to check the National Bank of Hungary, because he himself has control powers. There's no way he can be controlled at a fair level and at the moment no one can. It can also be said that there are serious shortcomings with regard to the financial reconciliation bodies, since 22 cases have been closed at the Financial Reconciliation Board in the so-called foreign exchange credit clearance during the period concerned and examined, and two of them have been agreed. So the fact that two cases have been negotiated before such a plenum does not mean that the cases discussed here have been able to bring a systemic change into the national economy. So, at national level, this is clearly not noticeable. The aim would be to put victims who do not have to go to court for years because they have been tricked because they are looking for the right way, but also to create a dimension for entrepreneurs, opportunities to avoid future major problems and legal consequences by correcting their own operation, but to do so, it is not enough to translate a European Union motion and move it into the Hungarian legal system. While it has already been stated here that the aim is to promote fair competition, let me recommend, in addition to this motion, a few areas to the attention of honourable pro-government representatives, on which I feel that they have not been able to make sufficient progress in five years. What am I thinking? In Hungary, where appropriate, the system of circumferential debt still exists at such a level as to paralyze the economy, even though it is possible to intervene specifically with consumer protection-type measures in this area. But in itself, the fact that 8-10-person brokerage companies take a lot of the tender money, the majority of the funds, and nothing can reach the contractor himself, and that this can still be found on a system-wide basis in Hungary - because of similar phenomena, of course, large investments are stopped, of course, of course, of a bridge in Budapest, where the contractor is not paid, of suicide because he can no longer escape or support his family - is that the consequences of these cases are still not that they can exist at systemic level, and this also points to the shortcomings of the supervisory and control system. I'll give you another example. In the case of the so-called food chain monitoring fee, we are experiencing serious distortions of competition, because while Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises are in fact affected and affected by all kinds of taxes, we see that, in the case of the food chain monitoring fee, taking into account specifically foreign and multi-networks, if their portfolio planning - let us remain in the same way and quote - is smart, so that they can scatter and diversify their portfolios so that they can be fragmented along the appropriate size of the company and at the appropriate level, they can certainly avoid a good part of this tax burden. Which is completely unfair, which is simply not only distorting competition, but also taking this whole system further away from public burdens. So in addition to these areas and examples, I could list consumer groups and talk about the systematic deception of older people through product presentations. So it is clear that the consumer protection system that we have in Hungary today is simply not working properly, and I say once again that we will vote on all well-intentioned, well-intentioned proposals, we can vote, and we can only see that there is a need for implementation - you know more precisely - here, you are leading something into the Hungarian legal system, but unfortunately, there are systemic errors, and we are going to mantra them until they are finally changed substantially. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-11-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I give the floor to the lead speaker of the LMP, I would like to inform you that, in the next half hour, you are expected to visit the Chamber, and then the President of the Parliament of Singapore will take her seat in the decorative box. I apologize to whoever's about to speak, I'm going to interrupt for a greeting, and then I'm going to give the floor back. Thank you very much. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-11-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the Consumer Protection Act is more than timely, although it is a little late. The LMP has shown many times that the topic is of paramount importance to us, not by accident. The balance of power between consumers and firms over a long period of time is increasingly disrupted. Companies are becoming more brazen and brazen, and consumers are becoming more vulnerable. The distance between the two parties is sometimes thousands of kilometres thanks to the Internet. So this is a burning and topical issue. We're missing more points from the government's presentation. The LMP has repeatedly proposed in recent years to extend the legal concept of the consumer. Not only private individuals but also small and medium-sized enterprises can use services as consumers. They too can buy from other companies, especially larger ones, in their capacity. Why should this be important in a circle other than reconciliation bodies? Because in any case, in the interpretation of contracts, the consumer has a more favourable treatment and a wider margin of discretion than a mere contractor. This help, protection, would be a great deal for small businesses. The additional protection of consumers in civil law entails longer limitation periods, greater nullity and right of withdrawal or the reversal of the burden of proof, which basically determines the possibilities of enforcement. It is a significant virtue of the proposal to extend the possibilities for dispute resolution between consumers and companies. So far, these reconciliation bodies and forums have often proved helpless. Often, the company concerned did not send a representative, did not cooperate, and could waste time without consequences at the expense of the consumer, the customer. The conduct of businesses towards the conciliation body in the course of the procedure is therefore essential for resolving consumer disputes. In this respect, it is certainly positive that conciliation bodies can impose fines on companies acting in bad faith as provided for in the proposal. This can make procedures more effective and thus reduce the burden of justice. The work of the courts can be faster and more effective if they do not face a multitude of minor cases. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry provides a framework for this debate-making process. This is just because it gives its first sign that the five thousand forints collected from the companies carry on a meaningful activity, i.e. many billion forints paid for by the Chamber. However, our joy cannot be complete, because there is a single Chamber appointed to carry out all procedures in the event of cross-border consumer disputes related to online sales or online service contracts: Budapest. This is likely to cause problems in cases that come from a further end of the country. Consumers and companies involved in proceedings may also find it difficult to have access to the conciliation body. Make sure that the law is applied so that no one can suffer an unfair disadvantage in consumer protection procedures because of their place of residence. Overall, the May Other Policy considers the proposal to be eligible despite the shortcomings. But don't think that's gonna tell you what to do. We are very optimistic about this amendment as the first step in a series of measures. The LMP will continue to keep the government accountable for what needs to be done. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[13.30]]
u2015-06-11-88	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. No opposition shall be made by independent representatives. Two-minute speech: Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2015-06-11-89	Mr President, Dear House, As the press of the button does not seem to have an excruciating debate in the House at a later stage, and while we are trying to inseminated many at the level of the State Secretary and of his representatives in relation to our proposals, I think it is important to emphasise that the line that we have just said must be fully supported that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs should also be able to act as consumers if they are harmed and disadvantaged on the basis of which, let us say, a conciliating body can act. This would indeed be a very important long-term objective to relieve the courts, but I would like to stress that the government should clearly not go in the direction of threatening companies with fines. Here, the long-term goal could be to deter companies from taking part in a simplified procedure, which, in the event of a bad scenario, would obviously end in a judicial phase. With the same penalty threat, the construction authorities in the German language area, which Jobbik has been proposing for a long time, which can do so much that if there is a circular debt or there is no contractor paid, they can quit and stop the entire investment. Obviously, the aim is neither to stop investment nor to stop investment in the German language area. The aim is to ensure that the mere threat to the sanction does not lead to the fact that suppliers or contractors are not paid, that any worker is deprived under such a heading. Thus, the mere threat, the threat of sanctions, is often enough to prevent these very harmful situations from occurring, where appropriate, with adverse consequences. Therefore, we urge the government to take a stand on the establishment of a similar, even building authority, and obviously extend the system of consumer protection to ensure that these sanctions are not crushed on companies, but that the suspension of sanctions in the air deters them from showing negative behaviour. So cooperate with the victims [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] and reach a common solution, instead of a judicial journey, through a peaceful settlement. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-11-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if they still wish to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I now give the floor to State Secretary Ákos Kara, who would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-11-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, If you will allow me, before I respond to any questions or opinions raised, I would like to sum up a little from a government point of view, so from a government perspective, this is actually an ordinary, but it is not a simple topic. It is a procedure that many people know, but it is also safe to say that more people do not know. We want to take advantage of the current legislative amendment from a government point of view, so that we can give weight to this issue. So, ladies and gentlemen, we do know a number of examples, whether from our own lives or from our family and acquaintances, when there is a problem with purchasing a commodity or ordering a service with a particular company. If an example is allowed to me: it often happens that the sole of an expensive sports shoe is detached after the first use, our precious phone will soon be disabled because of some fault, or something like that happens to an elderly relative on a display of goods for hundreds of thousands of forints of an otherwise worthless buoy. After the first annoyance, we all turn to the business, looking for a solution. Unfortunately, in many cases the company is unable to resolve the problem directly, which is what the pro-government and opposition speakers and speakers have also talked about. Indeed, we have two roads ahead of us. Or we'll go to court, taking on the high costs, the procedural fees, and so on, and I have to say that we're practically starting a windmill fight, these customers, these consumers are starting. Or we are saying that we are trying to use the system that has been introduced in the conciliation body procedure order, which guarantees a kind of speed - that I mean 90 days or 120 days, if any - or that it is free for consumers, buyers and much simpler than for the courts. For the government, including the Ministry of National Development, we consider it an objective to increase and strengthen the role of dispute settlement procedures, which are an alternative to judicial proceedings, in the interests of consumers and buyers. Now, if you will allow me, I would like to say a few thoughts on what the speakers have said. Szilárd Németh, on behalf of Fidesz, has said something about information, on which I would like to confirm myself that I, too, see the need to strengthen consumer information. If you look at it, the current bill says that within 60 days, within 60 days of the entry into force, the website must be set up according to appropriate criteria and parameters, presented and made available. If you look at the many, many virtues of the conciliatory bodies, their work, the many virtues of the workers there, their good intentions and results, but in terms of website and information, I think it is very important to adopt the current draft law, because we need to take action, we need to act decisively. Many use, thank God, more and more use the Internet. In a quick, simple way, with proper awareness-raising, it really becomes available to many exactly what is the course of this, what is the procedural agenda, when they can turn, in what cases it is justified to turn to conciliation bodies and what kind of problems they can bring there at all. At the same time, I think it is important for businesses to give information, because the lives of businesses are determined by a lot of rules, too, a lot of legislation can make it difficult if they do not know the exact timetable for when we adopted it in Parliament, the consequences for us, and what is the simple thing to do in which they can carry on business without any fines, anything that could adversely affect it. I would like to draw attention to this, which is very important in this context, that, after the adoption of the bill, undertakings which have not taken into account the conciliation body procedure may be subject to mandatory fines and, again, only those who will not appear before the conciliation body. So I would like to note that for businesses that carry on their activities fairly and honestly, they are looking for a solution, cooperation with customers, for them, the adoption of this law will not be a disadvantage for them. Indeed, our fellow Member, Dániel Z. Carpathian, bringing what he has to say here, is right, that communication must be strengthened for both businesses and consumers and consumers, so that they know the possibilities. But I would also like to say to her, and also to the Member from the LMP, that we should look at the system of it before the committee meetings. But to my knowledge, to my knowledge, a given small enterprise or a given enterprise can turn to a conciliation body outside its sphere of activity, as far as I know, it has been laid down by a rule of two years ago, so theoretically, it is possible to do so now, according to this view. If our opposition fellow Members still have a proposal or an opinion on this, then let us talk about this at the negotiating and committee stage. But the aim, the intention in recent years, has been to ensure this not only by consumers, so not only by families, private people, but also by businesses, and, in our view, we can ensure this in an appropriate way. Of course, I would add that the company is not concerned with its own activities, as it would give a kind of conflict of interest. Our fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, spoke about cleaning mechanisms and said that he wanted a fast system, which can react quickly. Obviously, that's the goal. We are talking about such an incredible amount of goods that are rapidly changing... - so we are talking about such an incredible amount of goods and we are talking about a rapid exchange of goods that you may remember, fellow Members, perhaps we should use this term to amaze the market when we have ordered two investigations in the case of carbon monoxide meters in order to ensure the safety of people, families, twice in a short time. [[13.40]] I think that this kind of devastating effect on the market has led to an effective process of protecting families, people, apartments and residents, and I am predicting it, or it is no secret that this year, too, in addition to the usual timetable, for example, carbon monoxide meters, after the protection of life, we are talking about important things, so we are going to repeat this investigation again, for example. Ladies and gentlemen, With the budget, there is, to be more precise, a debate between government and opposition representatives on the financing needed for the functioning of conciliation bodies. In our view, in my view, the reconciliation bodies can carry out their task with the budget of this year and the following year, even if this number is growing. Of course, if we see the need to intervene in this regard in the coming years, we would like to see that, if it continues to be useful, it is also useful for the protection of consumers, buyers, families and businesses, then, if appropriate, proposals can be made, but for this year and for the following year, an appropriate amount is available according to the government position. There was a comment on the National Bank that might be important in a debate on financial supervision, but it is not part of this draft law, it is not part of this subject, so I would not like to respond to that. I would just like to point out that this is also an important issue for the government, but since the current draft does not concern it, I would not comment on it in this sense. However, I would like to mention what has been said about the elderly and about the display of goods, that we have received a request from government parties for our wallets. I think that in the coming period, in the next session, this could be a topic for Parliament, because it means that this issue is not only a matter of pro-government but also of opposition, so obviously the scams that have been taking place continuously over the last few years at such product presentations and are able to avoid various controls must continue to be tightened up. In this sense, therefore, I would like to point out that it is not possible to submit the current draft law, but we are thinking in a system that has explicit points of gravity that are also a priority for the government. The question of protecting the elderly and the rules to protect the elderly is certainly included. Ladies and gentlemen, There is one more important thing that I would like to say to you, and this is how and how we imagine the communication of this draft law, because it is indeed right for consumers, customers and businesses to know about it. I think that if we receive the effective assistance of the National Consumer Protection Authority and the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry at the time we have at our disposal - in one case, obviously, in the previous case, we will be able to give an instruction, and we will do so, and in the case of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, we will ask them to help us get proper and more accurate information at a faster and more rapid pace than usual - I think that this is definitely a useful and important thing. As a sign, I would like to say to you that, as far as I know, the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry has also agreed with the amendment. The government has therefore conducted an appropriate level of consultation with the interest representatives and agreed with the proposal for a fine, which I would like to stress with regard to businesses, that it can specifically concern undertakings which will not appear before the conciliation body. Ladies and gentlemen, So I'm trying to sum up whether there was any other suggestion that we should definitely respond to. Yeah, the Internet issue. Indeed, I think that in the years to come there is a well-prognised direction for consumer protection, so that the application of consumer, consumer protection and family protection rules on the internet or on the Internet is part of a government concept. With all due respect, according to my intentions, one of the next year's bill, if it were up to me, would certainly be what would settle the issue of online shopping and problems, which would bring to Parliament. Thank you very much for your supporting contributions, and at the committee stage and during committee meetings, we will be able to continue to discuss the details and not continue, but then we will be able to discuss them further. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-11-92	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that it is possible to present the amendments by 4 p.m. today. Next up is the 2011 CXII on the right to information self-determination and freedom of information. Act LXIII of 2012 on the recycling of public data. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission was made in T/4681. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Ákos Kara, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-11-93	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It's not consumer protection, but it's an important issue that we're going to talk about. If you will allow me, I would like to say to you, in the information society, that public databases must serve the interests of citizens better and more effectively. The recycling of public data, i.e. public data and public records, plays an important role for people, for all of us. The amendment of the Law on the Recycling of Public Data and the Freedom of Information Act is primarily intended to provide a basis for legislative harmonisation, but also for measures that go beyond that. What are we talking about? I'll talk about these later. The recycling and recycling of public data is of increasing importance throughout the world, as well as in us. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now clear that, if we are allowed to use this term, we are also living in a data-based society. Modern technologies, computers, smartphones and the Internet allow us to access data immediately and easily. Interactive use of data has become part of our daily lives and has been used daily. On our mobile phone, for example, fresh traffic information facilitates our daily transport, we receive the necessary information from user-friendly databases for our work and handling our affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps they will allow me, even suggest that in communicating with our family, friends, distant acquaintances, we will also take data, even take photographs, and share it through various applications. Data used in everyday life include databases and records produced by public institutions. For example, navigation applications are based on public map databases. Weather forecasts for smartphones provide fresh and up-to-date forecasts on the basis of state meteorological databases, not only as a citizen, on the basis of individual needs, but also, where appropriate, in terms of business and agricultural activity. The timetables of public and municipal transport companies are integrated into travel or event management services, making it easier for people to find out about a cultural event. Ladies and gentlemen, The examples could be given in length, and I will spare you the list of other examples. However, there is one thing that is common in all cases: by recycling public data from public databases, innovative companies are creating popular, useful and market-value additional services. Research shows that the volume of public data processed by the market increases by 40% per year. More and more ingenious and innovative solutions are being developed to deal with significant data volumes. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that such an increase in public data recycling will also have a positive impact on the national economy. According to the European Union's survey, the potential for market recycling of public databases could increase GDP by up to 2 percent at EU level by 2020 and the number of jobs linked to data processing could increase by at least 550 thousand. [[13.50]] In this sense, my fellow Members, the social benefits of public data recycling are also indisputable. Citizens can easily, understandably and comfortably access public data, making it much easier for them to work, manage their affairs and their everyday lives. Public data recycling therefore means longer-term economic growth and job creation, leading to an improvement in the quality of life of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, We must ensure and encourage that companies involved in recycling have access to data from public registers. As a first step, you can remember that in 2012, the Parliament adopted the Act on the Recycling of Public Data, which created the general legal framework for recycling. However, further incentives are needed to exploit the potential of public data recycling. Ladies and gentlemen, Therefore, the current amendment, in line with domestic legislation, the concept of government and the amendment of the EU directive, aims to ensure that businesses have access to public data more widely, in a simpler and cheaper way than at present. In this spirit, the bill before you sets out the following. Only costs directly related to data transfer may be charged for the release of public data for recycling - this is important to be said - but this can be distinguished only if the data provider does not receive budgetary support and covers its operation and the production of the data through fees. However, in this case, fees should also be adapted to real costs, facilitating and encouraging recycling, so data should be provided primarily in an open format that can be processed by a computer. Ladies and gentlemen, With the current amendment, the records of museums, libraries and archives, as well as electronic copies of the cultural goods in them, would be recyclable. The amendments in the bill before you will help to improve the recycling of public data in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, However, the government's intention is that, in parallel with the current debate, a complex concept of public data recycling government, a policy, would include further incentives for the area. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, The bill aims to implement our EU obligations. At the same time, it will further simplify the market recycling of public data, i.e. public databases and registers. The government's aim is to ensure that the national economy and society benefits resulting from the proliferation of public data recycling can be felt in Hungary by this amendment and the planned further measures. I therefore stress that this bill and the system for the recycling of public data in general, which we adopted in the previous cycle, remain without prejudice to the freedom of information and the transparency of the state, i.e. public interest data are still available free of charge to anyone. This regulation applies only to data processing covering large quantities of complex databases. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The recycling of public data should, of course, not result in the release of personal data of citizens and, in general, the violation of their personal rights. The regulation contains adequate guarantees for this. I thought I would say this last in a meaningful sense, because this guarantee is an important part of our thinking and of the bill itself. In view of all this, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-11-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now, with the beginning of the speeches by the Members, the speeches by the lead speaker will take place. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Sándor Hadházy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-11-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At the beginning of my speech, please allow me to quote Article 26 of the Fundamental Law: The State seeks to implement new technical solutions and the results of science in order to improve the efficiency of its operation, the quality of public services, the transparency of public affairs and the promotion of equal opportunities. The House has discussed a number of legislative proposals, even in this cycle, and even in the current laws, such as the motion for the introduction of an e-card, which serve to comply with the cited article. CHAPTER XXI In fact, we have a constitutional obligation to use and exploit the technological achievements of the 20th century in the field of public administration. This is no different from the one in front of us, T/4681. CXII of 2011 on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information. Act LXIII of 2012 on the recycling of public data. Nor in the bill amending Act No. In the background of this motion, the Parliament adopted the 2012 LXIII on the recycling of public data on 21 May 2012. Law. The Public Data Act established a uniform framework for the recycling and recycling of public data, databases and public-credit registers for market purposes in particular, laying down procedures for the provision of data, the maximum rate of charges to be charged for making them available and the basic principles for making them available. Thus, the Public Data Act allowed market and scientific life actors to obtain the basic data of public data databases in the public sector on uniform terms and without discrimination. By the way, we have fulfilled our EU obligation by adopting the legislation. The Public Data Act transposed the provisions of Directive 2003/98/EC on the re-use of public sector information into the domestic legal system. This is the so-called PSI Directive. However, this Directive was amended in June 2013. The amendments to Directive 2013/37/EU should be transposed by the Member States by 18 July 2015. That Directive states that allowing the re-use of documents held by public institutions will bring added value to additional users, end-users and society in general, and will also, in many cases, increase the quality of the information collected by public administrations through the promotion of transparency and accountability and feedback from additional users and end-users. Since the adoption of the first set of rules on the re-use of public sector information in 2003, data, including public data, has increased dramatically in the world and new types of data are generated and collected. At the same time, we have seen continuous technological developments in the field of data analysis, exploration and processing. Rapid technological development enables the emergence of new services and new applications based on the use, aggregation and comparison of data. The rules adopted in 2003 are no longer able to keep pace with such rapid changes, with the risk that the economic and social opportunities offered by the re-use of data will not be exploited. In order to ensure that EU and its Member States and citizens living in the Community can make the greatest possible use of the economic and social benefits arising from the recycling of public sector data, access to data at EU level should be encouraged by regulatory means. [[14.00]] According to the Commission's survey, data traffic through various IT applications is increasing by 40% annually, i.e. citizens and businesses consume this much more data on an annual basis. A significant share of this data is the data produced by the State and recycled by market organisations. According to the Commission's forecast, facilitating access to public databases and registers by European states will further increase the recycling market, and this will lead to tangible economic growth. The Committee estimates that by 2020, the EU's GDP could increase by 1.9 percent due to increased recycling of public data and that 250 000 new jobs could be created in EU Member States' data processing companies. Growth in public data recycling can bring similar benefits in Hungary, i.e. contribute to the growth of the national economy and the creation of new jobs. By means of public data recycling, data generated by the State is integrated into different user-friendly applications. In this way, public data can reach users more easily, more digestible and faster, making it easier for them to work, manage, travel, and overall everyday life. Therefore, the recycling of public data indirectly contributes to improving the quality of life of citizens. Moreover, by encouraging public data recycling, more and more public databases can be integrated into different market services, so that the utilisation of public data can be even more efficient and direct. I would also like to argue, in addition to the need to recycle data, that recycled, recycled public databases can also help public or government decision-making, making the operation of public bodies more efficient. As recycling becomes regular, public organisations are also interested in storing their data in systematic and processable databases. At the same time, let me point out that the associated tax revenues will also increase with the growth of the recycling secondary market, which could even provide an opportunity for the budget to finance public data collection. Among the specific provisions of the bill, I would like to point out that the motion provides as the main rule that public data can be made available; at present this was only true for the scope of the data specified in the implementing legislation, otherwise it was subject to the authorisation of the head of the organisation. I consider this to be one of the most important and most forward-looking changes. It is also important to point out that the rate of charges that may be charged for making available should, as a rule, not exceed the marginal cost of making available. According to the main rule, the fee should therefore not exceed the cost of processing, making available and disseminating the public data provided, i.e. the cost incurred directly by the public body managing the public data in question in connection with the implementation of the recycling request. Typically, such costs are the costs of the additional work required to carry out the application, i.e. the work which the organisation would otherwise not perform in its core activity, as well as the costs and depreciation costs directly related to it. The bill also provides for the preference of electronically processed open formats for the format of the data provided and extends the recycling regime under the Public Data Act to cultural public data, i.e. cultural goods managed by museums, libraries, archives and other cultural institutions that can be recycled by data processing. Dear Parliament, Let me also draw attention to the importance of data protection. The proposal does not change the situation of recycling public data in the domestic legal system. Both EU and domestic legislation specify the types of data that cannot be recycled. The concerns about this have not been confirmed at all since the adoption of the Public Data Act. I would also stress that the amendments currently proposed do not in any way affect the rules on freedom of information, including data requests of general interest, which essentially serve transparency. The aim of public data recycling remains not to ensure transparency of public operations, but to re-sell complete databases, records and value-added services collected and organised by public service providers in the framework of their core activities. Finally, I would like to point out that the EU directive also provides for a review. By 18 July 2018, the Committee shall review the application of these Directives and submit the results of the review together with any proposals for amending the Directive to the European Parliament and to the Council. Member States shall submit to the Commission every three years a report on the making available of public sector information for re-use, the conditions for making information available and the review procedure. In view of this, I ask with respect that you support the proposal that has been tabled. Thank you very much, Congressman. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-11-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-06-11-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The draft legislation before us is an excellent opportunity to think for a moment about where Hungary is today in terms of transparency, modern data management and publicity. Where does this country stand today in providing its citizens with real-time valid data about all that is going on in the country: facts arising here on Hungarian soil, data necessarily held by the state. In our view, we are not just talking about legal compliance with an EU directive, it is technicality. We're talking about something a lot deeper than that. We talk about understanding, approach, attitude, principles of the people who make up the state, managers. The fact that politicians and public servants, civil servants and government employees, everyone who essentially makes a living from what taxpayers pay for a state account number, essentially what they think about the fact that the results of their work should be made public. How do we feel about what we do, what we achieve, what we change, being measurable, comparable, and indicators proving the effects of our work? What we think about, for example, how citizens of this country can build online services on our common data, write on mobile phones, tablets, webs, or on any platform that exists today or which does not yet exist, program codes and solutions that make people's lives better. On this line, how will the state or municipal budget and its use be transparent, understandable, digestible, easy to accept, the result of everything that happens in government and parliamentary offices? If we look at this text or the law, which it is about amending, it becomes quite clear that the Hungarian government thinks most of this that it is mandatory to take over a directive that is most annoyed, in worse cases - and, well, what I feel - is an unnecessary obstacle to international institutions. In fact, no one is perceived to view the state's data as a service that should be made available to everyone on the Internet on a continuous and free basis, even as on-demand services. [[14.10]] No one in the government seems to define the data and metadata of the work of central bodies, ministries, offices, i.e. a school, a hospital, a wallet, an office, or a number of other public bodies when they do what they do, how much they spend, how long they spend, what contracts they sign, how they can be summarised nationally or regionally, how much they cost the taxpayers and what the result is... because all these data are not actually the property of the state, but of the people. And here it is very clear the difference between what left-wing governments have done and what Fidesz represents. The MSZP created a glass pocket law in 2003, and Fidesz basically liquidated it. The MSZP sought transparency in public procurement, Fidesz knowingly reduced it, increased the amounts and numbers of decisions that could be taken without public procurement. The MSZP set up the anti-corruption office in 2009 and Fidesz stopped it in 2010 among its first decisions. The MSZP has built the customer gate, which is a real electronic administration, although Fidesz promised a tax return of the size of a beer mat, then imposed 40 new taxes and did nothing in the field of electronic administration. I can almost hear your thoughts as you express yourself in the past eight years in this matter as well. The more attentive fidesz might say that we are basically talking about EU directives in 2003 and that they are also trying to blame it on the MSZP or anyone else. The fact is that everyone in Hungary knows very well what you Fidesz think about corruption, and they also know that you are enemies of state transparency, and you are fighting it with teeth and nails every day. The fact that in 2015 the Hungarian State does not understand the functions and concepts of modern, open data reporting, that it is not able to provide mass data online to Hungarian citizens in exchange for their tax forints, that it is unable to provide continuously accessible online databases on its activities, there is simply no excuse for any political family. In the age of information, there is no excuse for the degree of incompetence, incompetence, which shines from this amendment of the law. As he tries to escape the task, as he is slavishly copying the EU Directive without a definition and pushing the issue of transparency away from the government. And please, there's no excuse even if the Prime Minister is told that he barely uses cell phones, let alone computers or smartphone services. Therefore, we cannot support the amendment before us, and this level, this quality, this lack of quality. Thank you for listening.
u2015-06-11-98	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gábor Staudt. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2015-06-11-99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I'd like to go back to the proposal. To be honest, I did not quite understand the socialist fellow Member who spoke before me. Although there are certain points that can be agreed that the government has in many cases not supported the release of public data, yes, that is true, in many cases it has done everything in its power to hold it back, there are problems with corruption, of course it is possible to argue whether it is to the same extent as in the case of socialist governments. Of course, it would be a serious and fierce fight if we were to determine in what area and how the two governments could steal more. There are truths in this, too. But the proposal before us is a transposition of a directive, and what is being transposed actually makes access to public data easier in many cases, and also creates predictable planning of its costs, which I do not think is necessarily a problem or even a clear positive one. The fact that it is in an EU directive can still be good. We consider every proposal, even a directive, to be in the interests of people and to increase access to public data or to make costs more predictable, of course we can support it. Just because it's a policy doesn't mean it's a good one. On the contrary, we also say that if not, if a proposal from the European Union is received that violates Hungarian interests, Hungarian sovereignty, then we will also talk about it. I think that's the consistent attitude that people would expect from the representatives of all the parties sitting here, and not just the Jobbik, but in most cases, it seems to be coming from us alone. The purpose of the amendment, as I said, is to transpose the directive, but I would quickly use a criticism here. This directive was amended in June 2013 and is now being transposed and the deadline for the adoption of the amendments is 18 July 2015. This is on us. I do not understand why in almost all cases it is necessary to wait until the last moment, often beyond the deadline, although before the opening of the infringement procedure, but beyond the deadline, but in most cases the transposition takes place a few days before the deadline. We never get a meaningful answer to that. I guess that's when they realize that, uh, there's a few more things that need to be solved. And it would have been better if this had been adopted in 2013, let's say in autumn 2013, because the costs would have become more predictable even in the case of access to public data, and it would have been good not to incorporate these guarantees at the last minute. So criticism can also be in this direction. Obviously, I don't think the government would admit that it waited until the last moment to take advantage of previous rules. That may be the reason, of course, but I think that there is more of a case of negligence here. As a key rule, the proposal provides for the availability of public data. This is a very important guarantee rule that being made available will be the main rule in the future. Otherwise, it would have been nice if that had been the case. In the text in force, this was only true for the data circles indicated in the implementing legislation, otherwise depending on the authorisation of the head of the organisation. We know that in many cases these organizational leaders and their leaders have asked for permissions, who may have passed this further. We may have heard about such matters, but in many cases, because no one was willing, although it had the power to make certain sensitive decisions, and unfortunately, decisions are often - and this is true not only of the Fidesz government, but also of the former socialist governments, but of the Fidesz government - they have certainly gone up to the highest level and become political decisions instead of making a lower professional decision, and would have done so with a calm heart, saving time, money, energy and political credibility to the people. The rate of charges which may be charged for making available shall, as a main rule, be declared, not exceed the marginal cost of making available. It must be said that these are also very important guarantee rules, together with this, which means that only costs incurred in direct connection with expenditure can be accounted for and reimbursed, so that a fee covering the production of data can be established only in exceptional cases. This is important because, unfortunately, in the last 25 years, we have seen that it has not been enough that a kind of publication of public data is a very important thing, not only for public bodies, but also for municipal bodies, and also for economic organizations that are state-owned and municipal-owned. In this context, the new Fundamental Law also contained a welcome passage, as it clearly stated that those assets - and this could be a company, the corresponding 50 percent stake in a company - that are linked to municipal or state assets, or to municipal or state-owned property, should be known, should be transparent and do form part of national assets. We know that, in many cases, these were just nicely spoken words, but at least they were included in the Fundamental Law, and in many cases they could be referred to. But we can also see that it was mainly in the municipalities, but also in the public authorities or even at ministerial level - and here it could be thought of the way of János Lázár, and there were several such ways, where they refused to give out exactly what they were supposed to have spent the public money, which they said they had paid afterwards, but whether it had happened for all the roads, if they had repaid it, why they wanted to account for it first with public money; I only noted it in brackets - so it can also happen at ministerial level that public information cannot be obtained. [[14.20]] But it happened quite often in the municipalities that they tried to make access to these public data difficult by saying that they had to pay for these costs, or not only direct costs, let's say, they tried to get a photocopying fee to the data seekers, but also a little exaggeration to say that an administrator had to deal with this data in an appropriate form. In fact, there was an example where the administrator wanted to pay his wages, since the poor municipality had to employ a separate person to do so, and it was thought that this could be passed on to data seekers. It is not, and if it is included in the law - and it is clearly included - we consider this to be a welcome thing. And it is also good that the obligation to give preference to electronically processed open formats is prescribed for the format, which means that these data will be transferred in a more easily processed, easily accessible form. This will also be an important aspect for the press and, say, the opposition, so that, let's say, a long paper can not only be printed, because if, in print, let's say, a thousand-page document is put before someone and they want to know certain words or certain subjects, such as the press, the opposition representative or even any citizen, it will be difficult to search for. Although they have formally fulfilled their obligations, if processing them is difficult or even impossible, if we are not talking about a press organisation with a serious infrastructure, but about a simple citizen, then it is actually possible to disable the purpose of data acquisition. Therefore, I can also certainly welcome the priority of electronically processed formats. I also hope - and I must conclude here - that we can also find a solution to those cases, although here some of our proposals have been rejected that if someone refuses to release the data, then we should not have to go through a lengthy procedure or, where appropriate, a complaint, but that we can speed this up in some way or clarify, clarify these situations. In fact, the means of criminal law and the appropriate consideration should be given to the fact that if someone knowingly and not only knowingly, but also as stated by the court, does not comply with their reporting obligations, it should also be punishable by criminal law in an appropriate way. In a deterrent way, therefore, this is an important aspect, because even though the law is written down, if this cannot be enforced or can only be enforced very long, then the applicability of these laws in real life may in fact be called into question. So I see this proposal before us as an eligible proposal, and regardless of whether it would have been better to do the transposition in mid-2013 or towards the end of the year, but it does contain a number of guarantee elements. I ask the government to try to ensure, on the one hand, that the legal criteria are met so that these public data cannot be hidden, hidden or made available in a way that makes processing difficult, and that, apart from the legal aspect, they can somehow - and not only at the level of the state, but also at the level of the municipalities - make it clear how they should provide data. After all, we know very well - and this has come up with more than one proposal - that it is not enough to pass a law, but that the law will be implemented and its implementation will be as successful as, let us say, the last administrator who has to implement it, knowing how clear it will be and how well he will be able to serve the requests. This is a task, even a training task, but I ask that you try to start this change of approach and that public data be made available in any way, in the manner described in the laws, and that this principle and compliance with these obligations should be carried out throughout the public sector. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-11-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the lead speakerial round. I ask my fellow Members if anyone wishes to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Ákos Kara, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Ákos Kara: Yes.]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-11-101	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you for your comments, and I thought it would improve our intention to discover them together with our expert colleagues in the comments. I think that this is important in this part of the debate on the bill, that it should be said, because we are still facing tasks in committees, and obviously there will also be a need for constructivity. If we may highlight some opinions and comments: Sándor Hadházy, our Fidesz fellow Member, spoke thoroughly and in detail about the bill, as a matter of fact. If I may say so, I would like to point out what he has indicated at the end of what he said, and I would like to point out again that this bill is without prejudice to the freedom of information and the transparency of the state, i.e. data of public interest are still available free of charge to anyone. As I referred to it in my speech, I would like to repeat it, because I think it is important to say it, too, Mr President, that it was important, so that the recycling of public data should not, of course, involve the release of personal data from citizens, and in general the violation of their rights of personality, and the regulation contains adequate guarantees. Ladies and gentlemen, Ms Agnes Kunhalmi also spoke about transparency and approach in her comments. This is the aim here, in this bill, which I have tried to confirm from the government side, that we want to talk about transparency and a kind of unified approach. And, if you will allow me, Congresswoman, you've opened the subject a little too, and I would just like to point out, in terms of perspective, that the Digital National Development Programme, which is a government objective, is also a government goal, in the interest of people, families, to be available to all households by 2018, but by 2020 at the latest, if they decide to connect to the super-fast internet. I am only saying this because, in her speech, Mrs President raised the type of issues that are now one of the fundamental problems and the barrier is that the fast internet, the possibility of connecting to this, is not yet available in more than one million Hungarian households. That is why this is an important government objective. You have also used the term "system," true, in a different context, but if I may, I would use that term. We really want to think in a system, and indeed that is the government's intention to spread digital stimulation and digitalisation. I would like to point out that, in relation to tax laws, we have proposed that, from an economic incentive point of view, from a competitive point of view, there should be a public utility exemption for infocommunications developments and telecommunications developments for a certain period of time, if we provide the super-fast internet with the right conditions. I believe that competitiveness and economics are associated with a better situation for families in Hungary, and that it provides a means of catching up and catching up to those who are coming down. Obviously not exclusively, but it can also be a tool, and this can be one of the foundations of the links that the congresswoman has listed in many ways. [[14.30]] If you will allow me to say so, my dear Member, I see that you are committed, do not misunderstand me, I do not have to give you an opinion on this, but I myself believe you are committed to this, but I would just like to point out that, as far as I know, the Socialist Government has failed to transpose the Public Data Directive earlier. This is why the Fidesz-KDNP government had to resolve this situation in 2013 and that is why infringement proceedings were initiated due to previous socialist failure. I look at Mr Staudt, if I may, and this is also a response to your question, because the transposition of the basic directive into Hungarian law came in 2013 and this proposal is now coming before the House because we thought that it was not necessarily just now in the last few months, I myself have been with the Ministry of National Development since autumn, for example, but in the past period, it was necessary to evaluate, to reconsider the current spring trial in this spring session, the trial of this June, I think, is justified, timely and it is happening at a good time. But, of course, I understand, and thank you very much for the constructive and objective opinion of my good fellow Member. With regard to one of your comments, let me say, what I have noted to myself is that you have expanded your message to the field of application of the law in relation to local governments in relation to data requests. After the draft law does not discuss this part, I would not comment on it myself, obviously there will be opportunities of a type, a type of debate when these can be conducted. This was the case earlier, in the last negotiation period, for example, with regard to public procurement law. Obviously, I am not going to respond to them now, because, for example, they will be able to give an opinion on the public procurement law in an appropriate manner not only by pro-government but also by opponents in the autumn session, I think. Ladies and gentlemen, I would particularly like to point out that the current proposal, although it approaches the issue fundamentally from the point of view of the EU directive, is in my belief and belief that it is in national interest to adopt the proposal. Obviously, as with everything else, legislation alone is not enough to spread public data recycling - sorry for the expression, I would state that it is becoming general - but I think it is an important step now. I would like to ask my fellow Members, together with their improved comments, to finally adopt this law in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-11-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 today. Next up is the 2007 LXXIV on the rules for broadcasting and digital transition. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/4787. On the parliamentary IT network, it is available to all of them. First, I give the floor to State Secretary Ákos Kara, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development, rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-11-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The objective of the Government's proposal to amend the Act on the Rules for Broadcasting and the Digital Transition is twofold. On the one hand, we hope that it will bring the rules on pay in line with last year's amendments to the Media Act and on the other hand, by eliminating harmful market practices, it will encourage competition in the media market, thereby increasing the number of free television broadcasts that citizens can receive. I would like to point out that, given the fact that we are talking about a sharp, firm conclusion that from the point of view of harmful market practices, I would like to say that there are no new channels available for free in the system. This was the case. In Hungary, therefore, the number of free-to-air television channels has not increased in recent years, while there is an increasing supply of subscription packages, with terrestrial broadcasting, so there are only eight channels available free of charge to citizens without a subscription. The government has recently made the digital transition, which allows the transmission of several channels. Ladies and gentlemen, Many might think that this mode of broadcasting has no future or interest in expanding the range of free-to-air television broadcasts. We have also heard opinions that, compared to the size of Hungary, these eight channels are quite sufficient, that the market would no longer be able to handle it, or that there would be no need for more. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, hundreds of thousands of households in Hungary only watch free television broadcasts or because there are no alternatives available or because they cannot afford even the cheapest subscription package. There is therefore a great need for free terrestrial broadcasting, its development, and the possibilities of information and entertainment, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, If you'll allow me, I'll take a look-out, a European look-out, as 22 in the Czech Republic, 12 in Slovakia, 20 in Poland, 20 in Croatia, to my knowledge, 11 in Slovenia, 9 national television broadcasts are available within the framework of free terrestrial broadcasting. So that it would be unnecessary in Hungary to have more than eight free TV channels, I think that only these examples deny it. Why hasn't there been an expansion despite the need and technical possibilities? The answer should be found in the contractual practice of larger broadcasters and cable operators. It is generally common that cable operators in contracts with TV channels have adverse consequences for the parallel appearance of TV channels in a free range of programmes. For example, if a TV channel were to be included in free-to-air broadcasts, the cable provider would not pay him the otherwise legitimate programme fee on the basis of the contract. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, This exercise makes TV channels a choice. Either they stay in the offer of cable providers or they are offered free of charge. Together, however, the two would, according to the present practice, lead to serious losses. All of this forces TV stations to stay out of free broadcasts in order to keep their cable TV bill. This contractual practice is particularly harmful, restricts competition and prevents the expansion of the free range of programmes in our view. This practice does not come from domestic or EU legislation; it is applied by service providers. By banning the possibility of restriction, which is the aim of the bill, up to two or three new channels may appear in the short term between free-to-air television broadcasts. The bill would therefore eliminate harmful contractual practices, essentially prohibiting broadcasters and cable operators from punishing TV channels in the free range, if this is to be understood as a quotation mark. Ladies and gentlemen, We expect the change to increase the number of free channels. The proposed amendment does not otherwise affect contractual relations, so cable operators and other broadcasters are not at a disadvantage. The bill also aims to protect the interests of television viewers with another set of measures. You can remember last year's amendment of the Media Act; as a result, media service providers with significant influence still cannot apply for a programme fee for the distribution of their most watched TV channels. This amendment essentially maintained the former status. Its aim was to ensure that commercial channels with significant influence, which is also popular and high advertising revenue, could not receive undue additional revenues at the expense of the viewers, since the possibility of charging the programme fee could have resulted in an increase in subscription fees. Therefore, a programme fee will only be set according to the government's implementing regulation providing adequate guarantees that will be published later. Ladies and gentlemen, However, last year's amendment only applies to channels under Hungarian jurisdiction. [[14.40]] If a media service provider with significant influence transfers its seat to another country, but still broadcasts its programme to Hungary, that could be a problem. In this case, the service provider would be excluded from Hungarian jurisdiction, it would not qualify as a significant influence under the law, and under the current rules it could apply for a programme fee from broadcasters and cable operators. Meanwhile, his actual influence, his popularity, would remain unchanged. The consequences of this could be particularly harmful. On the one hand, the service provider would have an unjustified competitive advantage over providers under fair Hungarian jurisdiction, and, on the other hand, because of popularity, it is a channel included in all subscription packages, and the release of the programme fee would result in an increase in subscription fees. It's a loophole closed by the bill. So the bill closes this loophole and makes it clear that the ban on the collection of programme fees applies to all operators, irrespective of the country of establishment, which actually has significant influence. Without introducing new obligations, the amendment relates to the amendment of the media law adopted last year and helps to implement it. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, The bill you can read before you therefore, in our view, contains provisions to facilitate the functioning of the domestic media market, to expand the available supply and to protect the interests of subscribers. I would ask you to discuss and support this proposal in this spirit. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-11-104	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be held by the representatives, the first among which will be the speeches by the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Attila Szabolcs. I give you the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-06-11-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, The 2007 LXXIV on the rules for broadcasting and digital transition. T/4787. Bill No. 1 serves a twofold purpose. Increase the free range of broadcasts in terrestrial digital broadcasting, as currently contractual practices make it impossible to increase the number of free channels and ensure, in line with last year's amendment of the Media Act, that TV service providers who have fled abroad are not able to avoid the ban on charging. Dear House, If the bill is adopted, we expect to increase the number of free channels by 2-3 within a few years. According to the last year's amendment to the Media Act, cable operators are not allowed to charge a programme fee for commercial channels with significant influence. However, this applies only to channels under Hungarian jurisdiction, not to channels deployed abroad. The bill therefore states that such a provision should also apply to channels having significant influence, whether or not the channel is subject to domestic jurisdiction. Dear fellow Members, Following the digital transition, the state-owned Antenna Hungária Zrt. can receive free TV broadcasts without subscription on the basis of a concession. MinDig's TV service provides it. There are only 8 free national channels available. These 8 channels are not enough, the technology and the media market would be able to handle more. The expansion of free supply, as the Secretary of State said, has not spread because of the contractual practices of broadcasters and, for example, cable operators. Broadcasters state in the contract that they do not pay a programme fee for the TV channel that is offered free of charge on MinDig TV, or that it is available in other free-of-charge ways. Thus, TV channels will be chosen: they will either be offered free of charge or they will give up significant revenue. The bill therefore contains a legislative amendment that nullifies such provisions of broadcasting contracts. Antenna Hungária Zrt. According to his statement, within a few years, 2-3 new TV channels will be available in MinDig TV free of charge. It is important that this does not affect large commercial TV channels, on the one hand, they are not eligible for a programme fee in the first place, and on the other hand they are involved in the free supply on the basis of a contract. Originally, by the end of 2014, the Media Act would have prohibited significant influential media service providers from collecting a programme fee from the broadcasters and cable operators after their most watched television channels. However, according to last autumn's amendment to the Media Act, the ban on the collection of programme fees continues to exist for these channels, they will only be able to collect a programme fee if the government lays down detailed rules for this in a regulation. However, due to the regulatory logic of the Media Act, this prohibition applies only to media service providers under Hungarian jurisdiction. Therefore, if a service provider places its seat in another country, it is not considered to be of significant influence under Hungarian law, i.e. it can receive a programme fee. This is detrimental in many ways. The withdrawal would not change its market power and influence, it would remain the same-looking and popular channel, but it could significantly increase its revenues and put at a competitive disadvantage the bona fide domestic and law-abiding channels that do not plan to set up their headquarters abroad. The bill therefore makes it clear that a service provider with significant market power cannot charge a programme fee even if it does not fall under Hungarian jurisdiction. So the proposal closes this loophole. Overall, the proposal does not create a new obligation, but only makes clear the application of existing obligations. What are the benefits of the current regulation? You can expand the free range of shows. In itself, it is good for media market competition to have channels on several platforms. Free TV transmitters are primarily viewed by low-income people, for whom even the cheapest subscription package is too expensive. If, thanks to the proposal, the supply is expanded by 2-3 additional TV channels, we will contribute to the expansion of the information and entertainment opportunities of these hundreds of thousands of our countrymen. The adoption of the proposal cannot avoid the amendment of the media law adopted last year, as a result of which the ban on the collection of programmes cannot be avoided for the most popular TV channels. Thus, these popular and, by the way, high-advertising channels do not receive any extra revenue. Of course, a person may ask questions: is it a viable business model that a channel is both paid and free. The amendment merely makes this so-called mixed model possible and not mandatory. The extent to which this is viable in the longer term will be decided by the market, but at present there is no factor that is expected to render it ineffective. The main point of the regulation is that, in order to promote competition on the market, it allows market participants and media service providers to consider the possibility of free platforms without risking their broadcasting fees for other forms of distribution. [[14.50]] It may arise that the proposal destroys cable operators, as people prefer to choose MinDig TV's extended free offer and cancel subscriptions. According to the legislator, this is not possible in practice. In order to participate in MinDig TV free of charge, TV channels have to pay a fee, so MinDig TV is only available to viewers for free. It's not worth being on MinDig TV free of charge for every channel in the first place, so there's no need to fear that free channels will appear in the order of ten by magic. This will never be a realistic alternative to cable services offering dozens of TV channels, thematic taxes and other content. Dear House, To sum up, the proposal aims to eliminate a practice that restricts competition and to ensure that media service providers are free to decide on the free platform and that it is not possible to shirk the company's seat abroad. The proposal serves legal certainty, since it protects the interests and competition of the law-abiding media service providers by not allowing any tricky business that escapes obligations to an unjustified and unlawful competitive advantage. Dear fellow Members, On the basis of what has been said, I would ask you to vote in favour of the proposed amendment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-11-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Ms Ágnes Kunhalmi. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2015-06-11-107	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The media policy of Fidesz came to mind the words of former US President Ronald Reagan, who once said: "The most terrible words in the English language are: I am from the government and I want to help. Reagan here was suggesting that what people can arrange for themselves is unnecessary for the government to interfere because it can only hurt. This bill - in addition to so many other Fidesz measures - is about how a government can harm not only through its indirect operation but also intentionally. The Fidesz government wants to hurt and fight when it comes to who. Fighting with the poor, immigrants, the European Union or even commercial televisions. Your government seems to really believe that it can achieve that no television that reaches at least one million people in Hungary criticizes Viktor Orbán and the others. We therefore understand the intention: four million poor, sky-high corruption, hasty government - we must keep this a secret. You might as well have a moral barrier to not ruining people's jobs for your own political purposes, but that doesn't bother the Orbán government for a long time. If they want to favour CBA, they'll close the shops on Sunday, ignoring the fact that ten thousand jobs are being closed in the country. If Orbán's supposed business associates want to steal through MET Zrt., they give gas more expensively to Hungarians, and the relevant documents are kept secret despite binding court decisions. The real aim of the bill before us is to further hinder the collection of programme fees for commercial media, thereby making it more difficult for these media to operate. The creators of the bill seem to understand precisely that commercial media can rely on two important sources of income: advertising and programme fees. In the advertising market, the state centralises its own spending, imposes extreme taxes, and here, on the programme fee side, simply renders collection impossible. Just to make it clear to everyone who will vote on this draft legislation: the programme fee market is twice that of commercial advertising. By the way, it would be called blackmail in a state of law. I can anticipate the pro-government response that MSZP has sided with media companies that destroy children's and mental health against Hungarian people. But the situation is reversed: in fact, the government is threatening the work of Hungarian people with such market-distorting proposals, because if there is no revenue, there is no employee, so people will have to be put on the street. Anyone who's willing to play government propaganda may be in public media to lie about people's taxes and the others can do whatever they want. It may not be clear to many in this Parliament, but it is the job of the media to criticize the current government. If there's a MSZP government, even if it's fidesz, it's still fidesz. If the government wants to deprive media companies of their revenue - and it doesn't matter if they do it with fines, advertising tax or programme fees - it will provide televisions, thereby giving citizens the pleasure of the government. Obviously, this is the aim of the proposal and therefore the MSZP cannot support it exactly as we opposed the media law or advertising tax. The Orbán government has done two things since 2010, not only in the field of media regulation, but in the entire Hungarian economy. First of all, he doesn't keep his promises. With regard to media regulation, the government is breaking a concrete promise, as it has been publicly agreed that programme fees will be collected again once the digital changeover has been completed. The second is the impossibility of independence. We have a public media that costs HUF 80 billion a year, which works at a lower standard than the propaganda of the Kádár system. A country laughs at it, and in order for anyone to connect to it at least accidentally, the government has to regulate by law what channels to appear on television. [[He's sighing.]] The competition for this is always another channel that people prefer to watch because government propaganda is not welcome, they know it's a lie. Dear Parliament, There is a solution to media problems in Hungary. The solution is freedom. The state doesn't have to regulate everything three times, especially if it works on its own. There is a criminal code that sanctions violations, we have a tax authority that is supposed to monitor fair taxation - not that our tax authorities are fair today. In addition to the specific legal framework and specific taxation, all other interventions distort the freedom of the press. It is, of course, possible to impose obligations on media and media as a whole with general effect, consensus and social support, but to deprive some channels of the right to others, that is blackmail and fraud. It would be hard to deny that this is the goal. The MSZP's proposal is therefore: real market relations in the media, without harmful rules and overtaxation of any colour of government. Hungary wishes freedom of the press and freedom of expression. Thank you for listening.
u2015-06-11-108	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr President Novák. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-11-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On Tuesday, the National Assembly basically banned advertising agencies, made their operation impossible, and now it looks like Fidesz is transforming this sector completely, which is on the agenda here. So, as the advertising tax bill has eliminated the advertising organizers, here, it seems - if all this is true, which lies before us - the broadcasters will be eliminated. In the medium term, the government is destroying small and medium-sized operators, but it is also withdrawing huge amounts of revenue from the large ones. Free MinDig TV will give you access to more free content, but therefore pay-per-view distributors will be less and less accessible. However, the latter will rather develop infrastructures and networks. In other words, the situation is a little similar to the reduction of the rent: it sounds good because it is less expensive to pay, but over time it just rots away and the infrastructure is completely out of control. In the longer term, this will mean that there will be TVs on the TV market that seek to maximize their access, and TVs with basic advertising revenues, as well as cable televisions from subscriptions addressing a narrower layer market. [[15.00]] Today, the mixed model is typical, although the latter revenue dominates, and there will be a radical transformation compared to that. It is no wonder that the Hungarian Cable Communications Association also contacted the relevant parliamentary representatives in a letter, who at least expected some kind of speech from them. It may not have been sent to the Mamluks, but it has come to us, and they hope that we will consider their proposal, so I would like to present their professional position here. In their view, while the planned regulation would lead to the temporary, short-term advantage of a number of hundreds of thousands of disadvantaged citizens, 3.4 million households, representing 85 per cent of the country, would be more disadvantaged by the fact that fixed-line broadcasting networks would not be sustainable as a result of fee enforcement to the subscriber, and hundreds, mostly micro- and small- and medium-sized broadcasting companies would be forced to cease their activities, which would render the access of a very large number of subscribers to essential information impossible, as well as the termination of the jobs of workers employed by hundreds of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises broadcasters, and even the cessation of payments received into the central or local budget in taxes other than those providers of communications. In addition, the impact of the modified legislation would be significantly impaired if this were to be changed, the security and profitability of media service providers established in Hungary, which is expected to have a serious impact on the entire media value chain, says the summary of the Hungarian Cable Communication Association. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Three proposals have been made, from which, to be honest with the first two, Jobbik and our experts disagree, and we do not think they have a thorough fear that they can no longer collect distribution fees, but there is a risk that free distribution can really radically transform the market and therefore raise problems in the long term. But basically, I would like to draw attention to their third proposal a little longer, more carefully, which raises questions for us too, and I am glad that Mr Secretary of State is here, and we would like to hear the substantive answers he used to give us on this issue, because that makes us think about it. This is 2nd and 3rd. It is proposed to abolish Section 5 because, with the burden of nullity, the legislator intends to regulate contractual relations based on a civil law contract, thereby directly interfering with the functioning of the broadcasting market and, at the same time, to implement anti-competitive and technology-neutral regulation. According to the Hungarian Cable Communications Association, given that Dtv. 4. The operator of the digital broadcasting network shall also be considered to be a programmer within the meaning of point 35 of Article 35 if the transmission is carried out on its own, in accordance with point 2 of the draft. Within the framework of Section 3 of the Act, the operator of the actual broadcasting network and the digital broadcasting network would be jointly regulated. The latter activity is currently exclusively carried out by Antenna Hungária Zrt. the sole shareholder of which is the Hungarian State and the Ministry of National Development exercises ownership rights. Based on the information available to you, AH Zrt. does not pay a programme fee to media service providers, but does not require a fee from its users or subscribers after the free-to-air MinDig TV service, which is a basic service, since the funding of this distributor has been otherwise managed. Article 2 According to the official explanation attached to the section, I quote:. On the basis of the free-to-air broadcast programme, it makes the person thus benefiting, i.e. AH Zrt., clearly identifiable. It can also be seen from the justification of the legislation that the legislator intends to provide an opportunity to increase the number of these free-of-charge programmes, but while eliminating and actively interfering with market competition with the protection of other operators on the market. The adoption of regulation in this way could significantly distort competition on the market. According to information from NMHH, AH Zrt. The above-mentioned MinDig TV service reaches between 500 and 600 thousand households, and for this reason the public television pays a significant amount of public money to the programmer AH Zrt. in order to create a public programme access. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Hungarian Cable Communications Association also draws attention to this point 3 - this is the only reason why I consider this particularly to be a negotiation here - that, according to the justification of the bill, this regulation will be introduced in order to ensure that the legitimate copyright rights of the media service provider are not violated, but neither the text of the bill nor the justification even refers to Hungarian or EU legislation, which would underpin this. According to their position, it's just one of these, the 2nd. The rules in Section 5 may lead to a significant breach of the interests of copyright holders, which provides for the possibility of distributing media services in an uncontrolled manner, in a coded and uncoded manner, or even free of any charge due to copyright holders. It is important to point out that it is not possible to regulate the issue of coding and uncodedness through Dtv. regulation. Media service providers can contribute to encrypted and uncoded content on the basis of separate contracts on the international and domestic markets. Given that the price of uncoded rights is significantly higher than the price of the coded rights, there is hardly any example where the media service provider of otherwise encrypted content could provide its programme uncoded. This is only possible if they are basically programmed by own-produced channels, so the media service provider is also a programmer. However, it is also important to note in this case that in the case of uncoded programmes under international agreements, the royalty and accounting payable to copyright holders in relation to distribution differs significantly from that of the encrypted programmes. In the event of the entry into force of the regulation, given the uncontrollable situation - what constitutes coded or uncoded - these contracts would be fundamentally unfulfilled, or Artisjus for any programme that is mainly AH Zrt. Your system will be uncoded and you can ask for the fee to be paid for higher uncoded channels for all subscribers and viewers on the market. This would further reduce the amount of money in the industrial value chain, which could contribute to the contraction of the industry and, more importantly, its collapse. This regulation would in itself cause a serious market disturbance in the broadcasting market, according to the Hungarian Cable Communications Association, and would hinder competition with which Dtv. 2. § (A) would be contrary to the legal purpose and principle according to which the Dtv. Its basic objective - to quote - is to create predictable, transparent, technology-neutral, competitive regulation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. General justification of this bill and Article 2 (2) thereof. According to the explanatory memorandum to §2 above, the purpose of this planned market intervention is in particular to enable the development of media services accessible at low cost to the most disadvantaged or free of charge to the most disadvantaged citizens. At the same time, the adoption of the bill according to the original wording for broadcasters other than AH Zrt. also means that they will not be able to enforce a subscription fee against their subscribers in the short term after any programme that is AH Zrt. available in its range of programmes. Finally, it is important to point out that this is a significant violation of the principle of media diversity, and that media service providers established in Hungary are expected to suffer the resulting depreciation. In this respect, the bill ignores the fact that, in addition to the programme fee, the subscription fee includes additional cost elements as described at point 1 and that, in the absence of a return on the subscription fee, there is an economic impossibility for the actual broadcasters. Thus, the entry into force of such legislation could result in the damage to the entire media-industrial value chain, which already has a significant impact on the economic resilience of the Hungarian media in the medium term, and puts the media in Hungary at great risk to the activities of international actors. Apart from the justification of the bill, AH Zrt would not be a strengthening regulation, but a barrier to competition. positive discrimination. In addition, it would also be important to bring up the conflict with the various EU directives, regulations or certain articles of the EU Treaty. I do not think this is important, because I think that the EU should not interfere with such issues, our internal affairs, so I will not read these arguments now, but the former ones, I think, are thoughtful. [[15.10]] In this connection, I have a question for the government, in the part of the proposal to put Antenna Hungária in position, in fact, here is 2-3. About whether the Government believes that this proposal will have such effects, or whether it is a legislative indiscretion. I would also like to know if you have previously consulted the Hungarian Cable Communications Association. We're still uncertain about 2-3. In the justification of the article, but it must be stated that it is frightening that, at such moments as I mentioned on Tuesday, advertising organizers will now be eliminated, especially given that again, as in the adoption of the Tuesday Act, it seems that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs will be drinking the consequences of this bill. That is why we would like to get some explanation from the Secretary of State for this most worrying part. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-06-11-110	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I will give Mr Ákos Kara the opportunity to respond as rapporteur.
u2015-06-11-111	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We've witnessed two types of comment over the last few minutes. There was an approach focusing on the text of a bill and on a general context of disengaging political positions. If I may, I would now respond to the position of MSZP in the latter or in the order of the opposition in this sense later, because our colleague, Mr President Novák, left an important question in the air, which concerns Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. I hope that the adoption of this in Parliament of the draft law that we have just discussed, so a parliamentary decision to support Hungarian businesses in general, not only with a disadvantage, but also in some respects, I hope that it can bring benefits. To your specific question, which you have asked, I would like to say that the colleagues have negotiated with the Hungarian Cable Communications Association, I can say quite accurately, on 10 June 2015, if I understand correctly, not with Mr President. President Kély referred to him, and my fellow Member, I consider him to be a very fair man. Obviously, if you see the need for it in the coming days, I will be happy to discuss it myself during the committee hearing, but if I may, the government of 10 June will be happy to give you information on the negotiation of the State Secretariat and the Hungarian Cable Communications Association, if that is what the fellow Members think. But I think that, having more people watching it not only in Parliament, but also outside Parliament, it is important to present the points objectively and factually here. Indeed, the Hungarian Cable Communication Association has three proposals, divided into three packages or three parts. If I may, I, too, would now refer only to the fact that what is mentioned in the first two points is not technically justified. So in this sense, if I may, I would like to go to those parts which now concern not only the representation of interest, but, in this sense, the parliamentary opposition's questions here. If I may say, this proposal, which came from the Hungarian Cable Communications Association, is part of it - this is what colleagues have been trying to draw attention to, and I hope that we have managed to discuss this part under the leadership of the Alliance - that this proposal, which has also been read by the Member, describes the business model roughly precisely. However, with regard to Antenna Hungária as a beneficiary, it is mistaken in our view. The aim of the government's proposal is precisely that the media service provider should be entitled to copyright, who may decide that the free-to-air programme should not be available on MinDig TV. So this is an important thing, in my view, and a concrete answer to a specific question. It has been raised by the interest representatives and by you, my fellow Member, the uncoded, uncoded problem. In my opinion, if I may say, the coded-uncoded problem is also one, if the term is not strong, then I must say that it is a created problem. On the one hand, it must be paid royalty on an orderly basis, which is free-to-air. I'd like to put it exactly, that's why I'm looking at the papers, the records. On the other hand, the media service provider's decision to obtain content, how much he pays for it, has nothing to do with it. His costs are therefore not increasing. Then there was one thing that was important, and it is good that we talk about it, too, the Alliance, you have a fear that you will not be able to enforce a subscription fee against the subscribers in the short term after any program available in the offer of Antenna Hungária. We believe that this is unfounded, because the training of programmes is the right of broadcasters, and if they form a package with predominantly free-to-air programmes, then subscribers have every right to choose free TV - you have also used the term, Member - as a kind of reduction in overhead. Due to the training of programme packages, broadcasters are not defenceless, but only an attractive package of services should be provided, if this term is allowed to be used, to compete in an appropriate way. With regard to Antenna Hungária, this discussion was also an important point, according to colleagues, a professional-type approach. If I am not boring my fellow Members, then I am telling you because it is important that the question of state aid should not arise, because the amendment alone does not provide any benefits to certain companies, such as Antenna Hungária. The media service provider's own sovereign decision to make its programme freely available on which platform, if any, whether satellite, internet or earth surface, is intended to protect its copyright needs - with this ugly expression, but I must say - in a platform-neutral manner. The beneficiary of the proposal - I think this will be understandable to everyone - is the entire Hungarian population, alongside the media service provider, which can watch more shows free of charge. Similarly, the objection to price regulation, which is included in the proposal of the Hungarian Cable Communications Association, and you, my fellow Member, have said that the objection to price regulation is unfounded, we believe, because the proposal leaves the definition of the programme fee to market participants. Dear fellow Member, Ladies and gentlemen, The professional-type suggestions that have been used to contact us, we have thought about it, we have discussed it. It is certainly not a simple decision that we are facing, but I think that we have covered the questions properly. If you will allow me, let me also say a few points to the non-professional or non-specific question relating to the draft law, because they say that the people I meet are not only in the constituency, but elsewhere, that there are certain things that arise in connection with a draft law, and they remain in the air, and then they seem to have some kind of truth content. [[In the notary seat, Adam Mirkóczki is replaced by Erzsébet Schmuck.]] So I would like to say to the left-wing opposition that I respect very much the woman who said this, but the government does not harm with this law, so we did not propose this law with any bad intentions. I have just put forward my professional arguments, and I think the arguments that have been put forward for the professional trial, precisely because for many people, the population will ultimately be the winner of this issue, so we will not harm this bill. The other is that I would like to tell you that I say this with a heavy heart, but do not look down on the public media viewers of the left-wing opposition. So I think what we think is wrong is that when we talk about freedom of the press and freedom, that they violate it, they hurt people who are watching public television, by the way. If that wasn't the congresswoman's intention, then... [[Agnes Kunhalmi: They deserve better too.]] If that was not the intention of the Member, I apologise, but I think that the viewers of the public media on the left should not be looked down on, and it is not right in any way. [[Ágnes Kunhalmi: He doesn't have a viewer.]] In the same way, I would just like to point out that the events in the autumn 2006 - unfortunately I have to step away too, Mr President, from the narrow part of the draft law, but as a point of view - have come to me in connection with sad, unfortunate events on the street, tragic events, that the left-wing opposition, the MSZP, is by no means considered to be a flagship of freedom in Hungary. [[15.20]] So in this sense, I think that freedom and freedom of the press should not be feared by us in Hungary. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Yes, it is.]] Thank you very much, fellow Members. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-11-112	Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 today. There's 40 minutes left. A draft law on the publication of an annex to the European Agreement on the International Road Transport of Dangerous Goods and on certain aspects of its domestic application follows; a draft law on the publication and domestic application of the Regulations annexed to the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Inland Water, signed in Geneva on 26 May 2000, and a joint general debate on the publication of the Annex to its Appendix to the Protocol of 3 June 1999 to the International Convention on Carriage by Rail, adopted in Vilnius, and on certain aspects of its domestic application, pending closure. The legislative proposals are T/5045, T/5047. and T/5049. available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr.László Tasó, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-06-11-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At the beginning of the consolidated debate on the three legislative proposals, I would like to point out that Hungary has previously joined international conventions on the international transport of dangerous goods, which were proclaimed by decree-law and laws. As annexes to the Conventions, more than a thousand pages of regulations contain specific provisions on transport. They shall determine which goods are considered dangerous during transport and under which conditions they may be transported safely. They shall provide for the safe packaging and marking of dangerous goods, the documents to accompany the consignment, the type of vehicle, the technical requirements, and the official procedures under which dangerous goods may be carried. The regulations, as a result of work in the relevant international organisations, are amended every two years for each transport sector in the light of the development of science and technology and the experience gained in the application. The amendments initiated in the legislative proposals may also be included in this line. The aim of the amendments is to make the safety standards for the transport of dangerous goods more up-to-date by using more and more extensive knowledge of dangerous substances. It is also important to ensure consistency between the provisions of each transport sub-sector on the transport of dangerous goods, not to impose undue additional activities on the consignor and carrier of the goods, for example, when a consignment starts its journey by rail, continues at sea and arrives at the terminal by road. Dear Parliament, Pursuant to international conventions, those amendments shall apply from 1 July 2015 to the international transport of dangerous goods. The legislative proposals also provide for the application of the same rules to domestic transport of dangerous goods under the relevant European Union directive. This will create full consistency with EU legislation. In these respects, I would kindly ask the Honourable Parliament to support our proposals T/5045, 5047, 5049. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-11-114	The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. In this context, I give the floor first to Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-11-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! As Mr Secretary of State has already mentioned here, we have three proposals for a bill for the publication of agreements on the transport of dangerous goods, the transport of dangerous goods by various means of transport. I think it may be obvious to everyone why we have to pay close attention to the need to join such international conventions. Perhaps it is also obvious, as Mr Secretary of State noted, that every two years these appendices, which we attach to the agreements that we have agreed, must always be reviewed. The Secretary of State said that this was over a thousand pages, so I added it up, so much more than seven thousand appendices to the three agreements. I believe that this is entirely justified by the fact that these are also included in Hungarian legislation, the Hungarian law. Accordingly, Act 5045, which refers to the inclusion of the ADR's so-called "A' and "B' Annexes for road transport, is Act 5047, which provides for the addition of the Code for inland waterway transport ADN and Act 5049, which is intended to include COTIF, the "C' of the Convention on Rail Transport, which is now before us. I would ask the honourable Members to support all three laws, and the Fidesz Group will do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-11-116	I give the floor to Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-06-11-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We are discussing these proposals together. In particular, I will talk about the publication of an annex to the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road. The National Assembly hereby declares the text of the European Agreement on the international carriage of dangerous goods by road, hereinafter referred to as ADR..., A. and B., in force from 1 January 2015. The amendments to the Annex to the Agreement, A, A and B, entered into force on 1 January 2015 by applying the provisions of the ADR A and B Annex until 31 December 2014, i.e. until the middle of the summer. Hungary has been a contracting party to the ADR since 1979. Our accession was announced by Decree-Law No 19 of 1979. The Annex to the ADR. A, A, and B, contains the technical and administrative specifications for the preparation and operation of transport. As a result of work in international organisations, the requirements of the ADR Annexes are regularly amended every two years in order to ensure greater consistency of sub-sector rules and to adapt the requirements to scientific and technical progress, and the current amendments are in line with this line. The amendments for 2015 represent a change in the classification of materials, technical, packaging specifications, markings and documents for the transport of dangerous goods. It also provides for the application of the provisions of the ADR. A. and B. on the domestic road transport of dangerous goods. With the publication of the text in force from 1 January 2015, the 2013 Act on the publication of the Annex to the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road, which issued the previous amendments, and the publication of the Annex to the Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road, and certain aspects of its domestic application, shall be repealed. The MSZP fraction will support the adoption of all three legislative proposals. Thank you.
u2015-06-11-118	Thank you. I am asking the KDNP Group if anyone would like to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any applications. I give the floor to Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-06-11-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The legislative proposals we are discussing together contain current amendments to international conventions on the international transport of dangerous goods by road, inland waterway and rail, detailing the necessary legislative harmonisation procedures. The proposals before us represent the transposition into domestic legislation of agreed standards developed at professional level at international level. The improved safety standards will also bring greater consistency with the rules of the transport sub-sectors. The amendments represent a change in the classification of materials, technical, packaging specifications, markings and documents for the transport of dangerous goods. However, it may not hurt to take advantage of the opportunity offered, but some of the moments that will help us to better explore the area in question will be mentioned in my speech as a keynote speaker. [[15.30]] After all, transport directly affects people's lives, affects personal relationships, the economy, security, the environment, people's learning and cultural opportunities. It is good to know that the transport sector in Europe accounts for 10 per cent of GDP, including about 44 per cent of the freight traffic that is an essential element of it, reaches its destination by road, 8 per cent by rail, and 4 per cent by inland waterway. I note that in terms of the share of labour in the transport of goods, we have a much better number in the rail sector than the EU average, as this indicator is 18 per cent. In the network of 75,000 kilometres of roads and railways of this length, our country plays an important role within Europe, as Hungary is located at the meeting of pan-European corridors. We could become the logistics centre of Central Europe, but it will be difficult to operate until only 15 percent of our 7700 km railway line is two-tracked and 37 percent electrified, compared with 42 and 46 percent of the EU average, and 140 km/h speeds are less than 200 km. Because of the poor conditions that threaten safety, there is a constant speed limit of 3,400 km, and there was no mention of the technical condition of the various artifacts, the very ageing railway infrastructure and the fact that only a third of the total length of the line is equipped with automatic spatial protection equipment. Of course, we know that there is a huge gap between available resources and development tasks, and this is obviously not the legacy of the last five or even the last eight years. By the way, the transport policy directive, which is constantly voiced and supported by Jobbik, is to increase the share of energy- and environmental-friendly modes of transport in this transport division, which in Hungarian means directing road freight transport to rail and inland waterway transport. On average, about 16,000 road accidents per year also warn us of this. When transport is not working properly, it interferes with people's lives and causes economic losses, not to mention the possibility of disaster situations. In contrast, safe, efficient and environmentally sound transport contributes to human freedom and prosperity, protecting the environment. It is therefore clear that from time to time it is necessary to review and amend the transport rules. A consumer society that is not sustainable at all in the long term produces a growing range of dangerous goods to an astonishing extent. CHAPTER XX During the century, the development of the chemical industry, specialised in the production of various chemicals, was enormous. By virtue of their nature, the provisions relating to their carriage should be a priority. Chemical goods may only be transferred by road, rail or inland waterway, subject to strict requirements. It is clear that chemical countermeasures should remain on high alert, properly trained specialist reinforcements, their state-of-the-art technical and equipment supply, which, of course, must be sacrificed in order to avoid major casualties. We are always proposing that this should be taken into account by decision-makers. Avoiding chemical disasters is also our first priority through legislation. As regards the RID on rail, the ADR on road transport, and the Appendices attached to the Bill ADN on international inland waterway transport, the full range of transportable chemical goods is classified with a thorough professional precision through thousands of pages, with all the descriptions of packaging, hazard, degradation time, toxic effects, neutralising substances that must be known by the experts in response to a possible disaster. Fortunately, it has not yet occurred in our country, but extraordinary events unfortunately occur. In parentheses, I would point out that Jobbik believes that, as we are discussing the transport of dangerous substances in one package, it would also be useful and sensible to manage the development of road, rail and water infrastructure in one package. Due to its transport policy context, it should only be approached holistically. The Hungarian renewable transport system, which meets socio-economic needs more effectively, should also clearly ensure the following: high-quality, predictable, safe and accurate service, the safe and efficient use of existing transport networks, network elements, nodes and other facilities, which should also go hand in hand with increasing road safety. For it is only in this way that the protection of the first human, natural and built environment will be ensured for Jobbik. Because of its role in the economy, the importance of transport systems in Hungary is enough to illustrate here and now only by showing that the current value of the road, rail network, river and lake ports, the current value of Hungarian airports is about one fifth of the total national assets. Increasing the efficiency of the existing transport system in freight transport, coordinating road, rail and inland waterway transport, combined and multimodal transport are important interests of our national economy. The legislative amendments that are now in front of this House contribute to the safer operation of this complex system. This is self-evident for Jobbik, which is why we are taking this opportunity to draw the attention of the decision-makers to some of our comments. Unfortunately, it is a fact that Hungary has become a transit country excluded from rail freight transport, which means that all rail companies can transfer different kinds of goods in a bizarre technical vehicle. However, from an operational point of view, the rail transport sector is more secure, but railway lines, like the roads, often pass through the most densely populated parts of our settlements, with potential potential for serious disaster situations. Rails play a prominent role in the transport of goods which are the subject of international trade, because, due to their high performance, they are able to transport large goods relatively fast and safe, at relatively favourable prices. Reducing the risk factor for chemical goods would be an important task for legislation; the better, in Hungarian, the sooner such dangerous goods leave the territory of the country. A related issue could be the case of the construction of the V0 railway line, the 113-km section of which between Tatabánya and Cegléd would allow Budapest to be avoided. The track would allow freight trains to run through it at a speed of up to 160 km/h and they could leave the territory of our country in just one day compared to the current four days. But if we don't have an economy and a market, there's nothing to carry. It is well known that the Hungarian state does not currently own a Hungarian freight sector, as the previous coalition of government played MÁV Cargo in foreign hands in the beginning of 2008, in a way that was equivalent to treason. The best meal of the MÁV, freight transport, the road opened to replace the national railway with the private international railway. Thus, the trains of foreign railways are towed in our country by foreign locomotives. The big question here is whether we really have the right quality and technical condition for trucks running on our lines, and if these cars, which can often be considered a furnace runaway, would run safely on the above-mentioned V0 high speed track. Privatization and liberalisation in the Wild East have resulted in amazing relations in Romania, which could also affect us. Contrary to the western, decades-old organic evolution, not large industrial, logistics, port companies, Eurogate, BASF, Duisburg port, Transpetrol established a private railway for their own traffic, but different oligarchs, fishing in the Balkans in confusion, made a market at the expense of the national railway company. Maybe we should see what we can read about this on the most popular right-wing news portal, kuruc.info. Let's see what the anonymous but well-prepared author writes:. These Balkan elements can't be of Hungarian economic or employee interest in us. We should not infect Hungarian railway relations with damaged Romanian railway wagons, dangerous locomotives, unhealthy business environments and methods. Don't we have enough trouble without this? And while it is clear that in Europe without borders, the international bag always finds its spot, I mean, the euro pack is the right pocket, it would not hurt to draw the attention of the responsible comrade to the fact that the sun is rising in the east, but these rays are not some provincial, doy-doy-doy-doy-doy-doom-doom-doom, but the most Orthodox, unscrupulous, unfavorable Balkans are entering our little country. So far, the quote and the call for attention have been made on my part. [[15.40]] The point is: Jobbik would still consider it important to create Hungarian rail freight, which could reduce the risks mentioned above, in addition to its economic benefits. It doesn't matter that the annual volume of around 50 million tonnes of goods doesn't even give Hungarian railway companies crumbs. The market share of 0.3 per cent at the end of 2012 is a terrible number. Foreign-interest groups take everything! But in the same way, we would support the transfer of exchange boxes for trucks and semi-trailers on railway wagons, which would significantly reduce road accidents, accidents and risk factors. In any case, rail is one of the sectors of the national economy whose operation cannot be entirely devoid of public ownership and responsibility neither from a national policy or a national economy. However, instead of party political battles and political vassals, the engagement must be in line with the principles of national economy. And then, contrary to extreme liberalism, the state can also be a good farmer. The international transport of dangerous goods on the road is as strict as the rail track. In fact, there is a much higher risk factor on the road compared to the fixed track, which greatly increases the likelihood of catastrophic situations resulting from the exceptional situation. However, our roads are overloaded, most of our two-digit main roads were built in the 1970s and 1980s, and the substructures of our roads designed for IFAs are not able to withstand the international traffic of goods through us, the 30-40 tonnes of saddle tractors. They crush the reserved roads that have been built out of unscrupulous money, which, turning into potholes, pose an increased risk of accidents for road users as well as for Hungarian citizens living on roads. By the way, road transport produces a lot of negative externalities to be paid by society, so it would be very important to shift freight traffic and, in particular, the traffic of dangerous substances from road to rail. The cheapest way to transport goods is water transport, but in the case of dangerous goods in a potentially catastrophic situation, damage may increase inexplicably, as it spreads immediately when dangerous material is released. It is no coincidence that the transport agreement on dangerous substances was concluded on the Danube bordering the ten countries as early as 1941. It is good to know that, although our country's geographical position does not only make it a node for rail Corridors, as there are 1,400 kilometers of inland waterways within Europe, and the most important transcontinental waterway, the Danube-Majna-Rain system, from Rotterdam in the North Sea to Sulina in the Black Sea, is located right in Hungary, at the centre of Dunaalmás. However, less than a third of the density of the Hungarian ports in the Danube compared to the part of the Danube west of us. However, we could take the river as a very cheaply sustainable and very, very many lanes, actually free of charge, where the unit transport cost is only one-eighth of road transport, so it is very cheap. The tariffs applied here are the lowest among the sub-sectors involved in the division of labour in transport, and the external costs for inland waterway transport represent only one-eighth of the values measured by the railway and one-seventh of the road-negative externalities. However, despite all these advantages, only 4 percent of the domestic turnover of 50 billion tonnes per kilometre per year is complicated by inland waterway transport. There have also been hundreds of ships, barges, who were forced to dredge, as companies specializing in the Hungarian meadow were not allowed to dredge. The bottlenecks of rivers and canals hinder the shift of freight from road to inland waterway transport. It is a good indicator of the role played by water transport, primarily water freight, in terms of the extent to which our country is not able to take advantage of its potential in terms of environmental and accident protection from road transport. But it's not just us, unfortunately. A relatively recent document by the European Court of Auditors, which stated that instead of an inland waterway transport, a single freighter could trigger hundreds of trucks, which could ease congestion and pollution across the EU and reduce accidents. Redirecting freight from roads to the network of rivers and canals can only benefit all EU citizens. A decade after the EU declared the development of this mode of transport a priority area, it is still lagging behind the road and the railway. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Finally, to sum up so far, my fellow Members, the Jobbik Group, in line with its structure already in all situations, naturally supports all agreements, conventions, regulations, rules, instructions, and related legislative amendments that increase the safety of Hungary's population and ensure the health of the generations after us, it protects it today and in the future, because this is not a party policy issue, but a common issue for all of us. In addition, safe, uniform transport regulation is an essential condition for opening up the Eastern and Far East markets. In order to protect our environment, our last strategic treasure, as well as our water supply and water base, and human life, we will continue to vote in favour of all well-meaning laws. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-11-120	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speech. I now give the floor to Ms Agnes Kunhalmi for the first time in a normal time frame.
u2015-06-11-121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, [[He continues laughing.]] Amendments to the Convention on International Carriage by Rail adopted in Vilnius on 3 June 1999 [[He laughs all the time. Applause.]] Protocol on the publication of the Annex to the Appendix to this Protocol and certain issues relating to its domestic application... [[It shakes the laughter.]]
u2015-06-11-122	Congresswoman, feel free to sit down and trade with your fellow Member, if you like.
u2015-06-11-123	Mr. President, I'd like to continue. I'm sorry. The Parliament announces by this law the 2006 LXXVII Convention on the Publication of the Protocol of 3 June 1999 adopted in Vilnius amending the International Convention for the Carriage of Rail by Bern on 9 May 1980, COTIF. the text of the Annex to the Protocol amending the Convention, published by law, on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Rail, as from 1 January 2015. Hungary is the 2006 LXXVII. has joined the new international rail transport agreement with a law containing the Code on the international carriage of dangerous goods by rail. Work in international organisations may lead to changes in the requirements of the RID Annex every two years. The current amendments are in line with this line. CIX 2013 on the publication of the Annex to the Protocol of 3 June 1999 amending the International Convention for the Carriage of Rail in Vilnius and certain issues concerning its domestic application is hereby repealed. Law. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, As my colleague Márta Demeter indicated in her keynote speech, the MSZP faction wishes to support this.
u2015-06-11-124	Now it's Congresswoman Márta Demeter's turn.
u2015-06-11-125	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few sentences - we are discussing the three legislative proposals together - also to point (b). With this law, the National Assembly announces the consolidated text of the Rules annexed to the European Agreement on International Inland Transport of Dangerous Goods, annexed to ADN, dated 26 May 2000 in Geneva, with amendments for 2015. [[15.50]] I'd say that's what I'm talking With this law, the National Assembly announces the consolidated text of the Rules annexed to the European Agreement on International Inland Transport of Dangerous Goods, annexed to ADN, dated 26 May 2000 in Geneva, with amendments for 2015. ( 15.50) The amendments to the Code annexed to the ADN for 15 years entered into force on 1 January by applying the provisions of the Code in force until 31 December 2014. Hungary acceded to the ADN Agreement on 4 May 2004 and, after its entry into force, issued a law of 2009 on the publication of the European Agreement on the International Inland Transport of Dangerous Goods in Geneva dated 26 May 2000. This was amended by the 2010 Act of 26 May 2000 on the publication of the Protocol amending the Act on International Inland Waterway Transport and European Agreement for Dangerous Goods and the publication and domestic application of the Code annexed to ADN. The 2010 edition of the Official Journal of the European Union is published in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Act has already ordered domestic traffic to apply the requirements of the ADN Code and contains the administrative requirements necessary for its implementation. As a result of the work carried out in international organisations, the regulations attached to ADN have been regularly amended for two years, and the current amendments follow this line, in order to ensure greater consistency of sub-sector rules and to adapt the requirements to scientific and technical progress. Therefore, the 2013 Act of 26 May 2000 on the publication and domestic application of the Code annexed to the European Agreement on International Inland Transport of Dangerous Goods in Geneva is repealed. I would like to point out one more thing about this law. There is a need for reasons of the bill 3. § 3 which states that it is not necessary to apply the provisions of the Code if the transport of dangerous goods is carried out either by a ship owned or controlled by the Hungarian Defence Forces and the foreign armed forces, or by a ferry travelling exclusively by inland waterway or port. As my fellow Member pointed out, and in the first bill, the MSZP supports all three laws. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-11-126	I ask my fellow Members if anyone else would like to comment on the item on the agenda. [[No signal.]] I don't see a candidate. I therefore close the joint general debate and give the floor to László Tasó, the rapporteur, to respond to what has been said.
u2015-06-11-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to thank you for your valuable contributions. I would particularly like to mention some of the things that my fellow Member Mr Ander Balázs has said, even in order to help him know precisely the ambitions that are currently taking place in the field of railway development and the construction of fixed track systems. I have just had the pleasure of attending the electrification ceremony of the Csorna-Porpác-Mosonszolnok railway section, the 50-kilometer section between Csorna-Porpác has been completed, and this electrification also means that 40 per cent of this section will be the cost of traction energy for the former ones, and we will be able to continue this phase until Mosonszolnok. Thus, a large percentage of GYSEV's area is already equipped with electric traction, if not entirely, but a large percentage. It is very important that all Members in this House know and know that during the next period, which we have already lived and started, rail developments will be of particular importance and will naturally aim to provide an opportunity for those who are listed as Hungarian interests in freight traffic to be able to direct goods from the road to the railway area more naturally. Of course, nothing goes from one to the other if we don't approach it and regulate our environment. Therefore, we will also make sure that this happens safely. That is why, just to mention, I would like to remind the Member that from 2012 to 2017, we are implementing a road safety programme with road, rail operators and service providers, in which we use HUF 55 billion only to eliminate dangerous hubs and focal points in the field of safety. This is a unique programme in Europe that clearly helps us not to deviate from the basic goal of running safely at all levels, in all areas and in all places in the course of scheduled developments. In its contribution to water transport, that part also deserves attention, and I would like to mention this because it is now going to be HUF 27 billion, which we see at least in the first round as being certain that we should develop the area of water transport. This includes not only a bridge in Komárom, but also the design of marking systems and the development of several ports. Returning with one sentence, concerning the management of freight transports on rail: I note that the direction train, which is also passing through Debrecen, has recently started connecting the port of Coker with Hamburg. This was also a major step, and this is being further developed. In my opinion, there will soon be a reorganization in Hungary in the area of Hungarian freight transport, and there will be a visible and evaluable Hungarian cargo. I thank you with respect for the comments, but it was all about supporting this proposal in the debate on the three consolidated proposals, and I trust that they will do so at the end of the minute. Thank you very much for your comments. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-11-128	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, There are still 3 minutes to submit the amendments. Next up is the 2012 XLI on passenger transport services. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission was made in T/4682. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr.László Tasó, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development.
u2015-06-11-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Since the entry into force of the Passenger Transport Services Act on 1 July 2012, it has served its purpose well. It integrates the State's system of passenger services, which has been incorporated into separate legislation, which is difficult to understand, into a single sectoral code, in line with uniform principles. The law thus provides a uniform and predictable regulatory environment for those involved in passenger transport services. In the meantime, however, circumstances have arisen which made it necessary to supplement and amend some of the provisions of the law. The European Commission has established a new EU enforcement regulation on rail passenger services. The Community legislation lays down detailed rules for the examination of the main purpose of rail passenger services and economic equilibrium. It prevents the economic equilibrium of services provided under public service contracts from becoming uncertain. The EU Regulation is binding and directly applicable in the Member States from 16 June 2015 and therefore it is necessary to amend certain provisions of the Passenger Services Act for harmonisation purposes. The bill also includes or initiates changes to the regulatory requirement, based on legal or application experience, since the adoption of the law. In the context of the future introduction of the electronic ticket system, the bill extends the right of data processing and data acquisition for Community transport services. It shall extend, inter alia, to the national mobile payment organisation and to the range of data necessary to accurately account for journeys in Community transport and to check the benefits. The proposal, as in order to allow accommodation on vehicles and stations, makes it possible, for safety reasons, to produce a picture and sound recording for the ticket and rental system. For the sake of modern and rapid administration, the bill also allows the electronic submission of complaints by passengers with a view to promoting electronic complaint handling, and also clarifies the rules on complaint handling. The government's aim is to involve water transport as much as possible in public transport and to increase its share of passenger transport. [[16.00]] To this end, we have also clarified the powers relating to public services for the carriage of passengers by water. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that the water passenger transport public service has so far been only at local level. However, the bill allows the minister to conclude a national, regional and suburban public service contract for the carriage of passengers by water. For the purpose of coordinating these services with local water services, the proposal requires the Minister's prior consent. In order to ensure a uniform approach and operational order, the bill allows the Minister to introduce a regulation on the use of waterfront property, berths and port infrastructure that are suitable and necessary for carrying out a public water passenger transport service. Many in this House are certainly aware that the period since the entry into force of the Passenger Transport Act has also brought about a change in the regulatory environment. The public service contracts for the transport of passengers by coach and bus expire on 31 December 2016 and can then be awarded only under a tendering procedure. Preparation for market opening also requires a gradual transformation of the regulatory environment. As a first step, the bill introduces the possibility of launching self-sustaining services operating on a market basis without public funding, i.e. subsidies, for certain lines, in certain areas which are otherwise adequately provided with public services. The aim of this is to ensure that economic services are provided without public funding, without prejudice to the existing public service procedure that continues to operate, where there is a demand for them, which is a paymentable demand. However, these destinations can only be used with a full-price ticket, and the passenger will be the one who decides which service he wishes to use. However, the launch of such services may be based solely on the conclusion of a public service contract between the service provider and the national development minister as the customer; in any case, without prejudice to the existing public service provision, in the case of existing passenger demand, where more efficient use of public resources justifies it. The bill provides for the Minister for Transport to act in agreement with the Minister for Public Finance when ordering inter-urban passenger services, in order to better enforce public finances and to ensure that these objectives are achieved. Dear Parliament, On this basis, we can say that a forward-looking bill that promotes the spread of public transport and adapts to the requirements of the age has come before the House, and I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support it with their vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-11-130	The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. In this context, I give the floor first to Pál Völner, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-11-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 869/2014 of 11 August 2014 on new rail passenger services was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 12 August 2014. The Regulation is linked to Directive 2012/34/EU establishing a single European railway area, which has enabled the introduction of new open-access international rail passenger services with intermediate stops. The EU Regulation requires, inter alia, that, following the publication of the notification of the introduction of a new service, specific organisations may request the competent administrative body to carry out procedures to assess whether the primary purpose of the new service is indeed passenger transport between stations in different Member States and whether the new service jeopardises the economic equilibrium of the existing public service contract. The Regulation is binding and directly applicable in the Member States from 16 June 2015 and it is therefore necessary to amend certain provisions of the Passenger Transport Services Act for legal harmonisation purposes. In addition, the proposal includes amendments that have become necessary since the date of the creation of the Passenger Services Act due to changes in the regulatory environment. In order to ensure an efficient use of public funds, the proposal extends, in the context of the future introduction of the electronic ticket system, the right of data processing and access to Community transport services to a national mobile payment organisation, as well as to the scope of the data needed to accurately account for journeys in Community transport and to verify entitlement to travel benefit. In order to improve the quality of public transport, it includes, inter alia, electronic complaint handling, water transport development, and introduces the possibility of providing public services for self-sustaining on a market basis only in areas otherwise adequately provided for by public services. In view of the above, and with regard to the harmonisation of the EU directive, we also propose the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-11-132	I now give the floor to István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2015-06-11-133	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Congressmen, ladies! Although I don't see a lady, I salute the notary upstairs. I respectfully welcome the opportunity to be alone in this Chamber as a lady. So, it is interesting, when, in principle, a modernisation idea comes before the House, however, there is more to the question than the claim. It would have been nice to work this out a little more carefully in line with the e-card. This proposal now seems to support the promotion of electronic complaint handling, to this end the proposal clarifies the provisions concerning the investigation of complaints concerning the transport operator and the rules of business. In addition, the data on the electronic card - the natural person identification data, address, signature, facial image - can be found by the transport service provider and the transport organizer at the same time. For security reasons, the proposal also allows for recording and recording of tickets and rental equipment. If an electronic card is introduced for transport services, the use of travel discounts may be subject to legislation - this looks like it will be bound. What is written about water transport is essentially appropriate, a part of the shortage. The proposal also makes it possible - this is a little interesting - for the Minister to impose by regulation the professional rules for the use of waterfront property, berths and port infrastructure capable of carrying out a public water passenger transport service. Compared with another bill, where the state acquires extra rights for any port investment, it can trigger interesting background ideas, but of course we are thinking of a well-intentioned proposal, not that they want to confiscate ports and give them to others. I'm sure that's just a professional opinion. The elimination of State funding for unjustified duplication is, on the other hand, a fear that it will bring about a reduction in supply. The proposal introduces the possibility that, where justified, in certain areas covered by public services, there will be no public financing, support or discounts for certain routes, on a market basis, self-sustaining passenger services, for example express services providing direct transfer-free access to priority tourist centres. [[16.10]] At the same time, the rules aimed at eliminating these parallels allow this complementary solution to be provided in any form of Community transport by giving an operator the exclusive right to operate the route in question a service that would operate on a market basis, in principle. Technically, it would operate without a competitor, because that's why they're giving him the law. Here it arises that if the competition cannot control the service fees, then who will control the service fee, whether there will be some price control in Hungarian or some kind of brake in this. Therefore, this service provider will not be eligible for State toll support, but will not be able to obtain a competitor in return, without it. The justification is not entirely clear, as it would therefore be possible not only to relate between priority tourist centres, but also to reduce State aid on other routes. For example, where there is rail transport, this proposal allows no passenger transport by bus. As I said in my introduction, this proposal opens more questions than it answers. Of course, we consider the use of the electronic card, electronic complaint handling, all of these to be eligible. However, this is the whole question, since at present the Legislative Committee, the TAB, has a certain issue of the introduction and regulation of the e-card, and this is based on what we see as not to be considered supportive. The content of the e-card bill as background legislation is not exactly known, so the MSZP fraction has not yet been able to decide on it. The use of an electronic transport card can be seen as a well-functioning model in many European cities, but the compulsory use of it on the grounds of proof of benefits goes against the principle of optional use. So there is a advertised principle and its conflicting practice in the area of proof of benefits. With regard to the elimination of duplication, regulation is very narrow. Although this idea, which is outlined here, may be justified in a narrow circle, let us say, in the tourist area, where there may be different or difficult needs, but in the case of larger, wider use, there is a risk that travel benefits will be eliminated on some of the usual public requests. It is feared that this is what the travelling public will have to face, so it is absolutely necessary to clarify this. Supporting the positive parts of it, of course, but we're telling the whole thing to work on and clarify. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-11-134	I now give the floor to Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-06-11-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2012 XLI on passenger transport services. In the context of the bill on the amendment of the law, it is important to mention both the positives and what needs to be changed. I forward, the most important thing that needs to be changed is the approach that treats passenger transport branches separately, in isolation, even though progress can only be made in integration. This is in the interest of both travellers, but also of the profession and service providers. One of the positive programmes of the bill is the introduction of the concept of a transport card. This corresponds to the steps leading to an electronic ticketing system. Objection in this area can only be given to the controller's slightly long and complicated name - national passenger intelligent transport systems platform. The legislative harmonisation part of the proposal and the amendment allowing for the integration of water transport into passenger transport can also be supported. An interesting area, however, is the elimination of unjustified parallels, the amendments to this effect. The public service obligation would be supplemented by the provision of additional public passenger transport services, lines or specific groups of lines between two municipalities, otherwise connected with public passenger transport services, in a way whereby the public service contract limits or excludes the possibility of compensation for the service provider, other than the exclusive right to supply the service - and now this in Hungarian. If two municipalities are already connected in one way, other public services can be privatised. This can be started or maintained if the economically sound passenger demand exists, the service provider undertakes to take on its own business risk and is used more effectively for the use of public resources. This provision, in our view, confirms the fears that before the forthcoming market opening for road passenger transport, there will be changes in the possibility that, where appropriate, a sub-area, which can be economically viable through the development of the right route, would not be accompanied by the supply obligation of other areas that may be economically viable in the region. We still do not know what conditions will be applied for public service contracts, what protection will be incorporated in order to ensure that both the provision of vulnerable populations and the rights of workers are not undermined or that a service with a better access time is available, but that it can only be used for premium remuneration. It relates to the above, that, as the market opening is getting closer, the Volan companies are in a pitiful state with a very old bus park. Unfortunately, the experience so far, especially in Budapest, shows that there is something to be afraid of. All this points to a problem that goes beyond transport policy itself. Here, the challenge is to achieve a balanced territorial development in rural areas that are falling away and are peripheral. They want to divide an area where friendly investors haven't set foot yet. As a result, bus trade unions also expressed their concern. They have the view that even the justification is important, as it has been possible for private entrepreneurs to organise flights to priority tourist destinations, and even Volán could do so and can do so. Travel discounts for passengers are an important topic. At present, workers of Community rail and road services are hermetically closed from the other part, although everything is moving towards the introduction of a common tariff system, common tickets and passes for each sector, which logically means that workers in each sector and their pensioners and their relatives receive benefits for the whole system and not just for their own devices. Contrary to this bill, everyone who works for example in the railway sector, and even indirectly contributes to the maintenance of passenger services, such as railway operators, should be included. The fear of trade unions is that if this is regulated here in the Passenger Transport Act, then, on the one hand, many people are left out. Another legitimate demand for trade unions is that the government or individual pro-government representatives have an obligation to consult trade unions in the particular sector when making changes to certain modes of transport, even if only parts of the law are affected by the change. [[16.20]] Some details that should be changed in the law, and which have also been highlighted by the railway trade unions. Article 3 There is a requirement in Section 5 to verify signatures. This is absurd because of the following. 1. There is no real reason for handling signatures, and the justification does not cover this. 2. The existence of entitlement can be verified without signature. 3. The signature may vary so that its authenticity cannot be established during the verification. 4. The inspectors are not equipped with graphical knowledge. Therefore, this provision should be deleted. 10 and 31. However, there is a fundamental misunderstanding here. Social aid does not constitute prohibited aid for public services. Article 29 § 1/a. The service described in point 2 is clearly a public service, and there is no reason for automatic and complete exclusion of the fare for additional public service providers. This is a violation of the interests of the users. In the case of such public services, it is proposed that the benefits be set out in a regulation. Last but not least, we need to change the right to strike, such as a provision that violates the fundamental workers' rights, a high level of minimum services, 66 percent and 50 percent respectively. Article 17 (2) of the Fundamental Law grants workers and their organisations the right to cease work. However, such a high level of determination of sufficient service renders the right to strike impossible and empty. In the European Union, for a sufficient average service for passenger transport services, half of what is specified in the legislation. It is recommended that 33 per cent for local and suburban passenger transport services and 25 per cent for national and regional passenger transport services should be sufficient. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. István Józsa: 24 is not enough?]]
u2015-06-11-136	I now give the floor to János Volner, leader of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-06-11-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In view of the fact that my fellow Members have made a number of comments on the opposition side, which are indeed legitimate aspects, if I may, Mr President, I would like to introduce and highlight some other aspects of the differences that exist between other parties and Jobbik in terms of policy positions. First of all, if we look at the fate of companies engaged in quasi-tax economic activities, and this bill provides for such organisations to be regulated, we can basically see that rolling stock has not been permanently financed by a single transport company to compensate the government for the loss of depreciation. For example, the so-called internal debt at the BKV is HUF 800 billion, which is essentially due to the ageing and replacement of the vehicle combinations. Such a system can normally be operated at significantly higher operating costs. When the government touches this area, it would be very important for it to provide a guarantee that no similar deterioration can be observed; indeed, the problem of this sector can be solved in a long-term concept. It also includes the fact that your ministry is currently dealing with the issue of vehicle manufacturing, industrial policy. When I think about whether the Rába project has been filled with content, we can come to a conclusion that basically these buses have only been labelled with a Rába label, and otherwise a bus produced abroad with foreign technology, to which we barely add anything, and this has been achieved in a very small number. It would therefore be important for an industrial policy concept to come in once - this is no longer the first bill in which I reprimand it to the government - which allows the right industrial capacity to be created for the production of these vehicles, simply because a manufacturer cannot base itself on the fact that the government or one of the Community-owned transport companies is currently ordering 200 or 300 buses. A manufacturer can be based on the long-term ability to calculate his own future and see a concept in front of him. You see that there are, say, 3,000 buses at the Volán, which the government would like to replace, because we are talking about a company under government supervision, the government owns it through the Hungarian National Asset Manager, and a manufacturer, investor, would see that they do not replace 3 000 buses at once, but they replace 300-400 buses every year. It's already a capacity to build industrial capacity, to plan for. This could help to make the purchase of equipment cheaper, as the Hungarian national economy's share of the replacement of the fleet is much higher than at the moment, when, let's say, they buy Mercedes buses or buy Volvo buses within the framework of a technological partnership, they attach a Rába label to it and then try to portray it as a Hungarian bus which, let's be honest, we have very little to do with. I also consider it important, Mr Secretary of State, that my colleague, Erzsébet Schmuck, first expressed legitimate concerns about the fate of workers, and asked for the extension of trade union rights, or at least in place. However, I also think it is important to finally have public transport in Hungary with competitive indicators. I wasn't lazy, I sat down with our member, who was delegated by Jobbik to the Board of Directors of the BKV, and we looked at the indicators that lie between a private bus company and the BKV. Interesting numbers were found. On one device, a bus, nearly three times as many people are currently employed by the Community company as a private bus. It is clear that in part the higher number is justified by the ageing of the fleet, the maintenance and replacement of parts require a greater number of workers. The other part, on the other hand, is an administrative waterhead, poor work organisation and a lot of similar things that I think should be removed. This would have been possible in this proposal, since the government has not touched one of the transport sectors for the first time, but it has not. It is very important to develop indicators within the Hungarian community transport sector, which are at least close to a Western European state, and there is no over-employment within an administrative water head that otherwise makes the system expensive, and in this way only this system can be operated with greater state aid. I also think it is important to say that, when we establish such a system, Hungary is faced with some of the principles of the European Union, and the government itself is confronted, because the European Union is enforcing a fundamental catch-up principle in Hungary, as is the case in other European countries. Within the framework of the catch-up principle, the main sources of development are those regions whose economic development is significantly below the EU's, four of the 7 NUTS II Hungarian regions are one of Europe's 20 poorest regions, where they come from, less to the central region, such as Budapest and its surroundings. This is a problem because, where appropriate, it is not certain that the allocation of funds should follow this catch-up principle. This source might be better used elsewhere and money could be spent more cost-effectively elsewhere. I see that there is no concept for the government in this regard that would reassure me, which could be a good message for the profession. So here, I think there's something we can do. The question of the tariff community is something that I would like to bring up, since some parallelities are somewhat affected by this bill. We consider it very important that when it comes to people travelling within a given region, they are able to reach their destination in such a way that, as far as possible, they can use public transport with a card, a tariff, and this should not be an additional burden for them either administratively or financially. Again, I think it is very important that, if we look at the financing of public transport, we can basically see that the proportion of those who buy a full ticket is extremely low, for example, in the MÁV. [[16.30]] If I remember the statistics correctly, it was 17-18 percent, who travels with a full-fledged ticket, the others have different discounts. We have already proposed that the government, in view of the fact that several investors believe that the Hungarian workforce is not mobile enough, should propose or accept our proposal, which could lead to a change in the cafeteria system, so that if we can make the workforce mobile, people can get to places where they can be employed, where they can do work, and I believe that better use of flights can produce better rates of return within the Community transport sector. Now let's be honest, in many cases, these sectors, which are also affected by the bill, are not competitive, because it is faster, easier and even cheaper to get to the right place on a private road, such as a passenger car, than, let's say, a person would use community transport. I consider it very important that, at present, profitable routes that are well exploited are not compensated, but can be outsourced to market enterprises. We consider it very important that the cross-subsidisation that has been achieved over the past period, or should have been achieved rather, so I would say that, in some less profitable situations, different companies may also operate flights, and that the profits of profitable flights will compensate for loss of loss of losses, and in this way a balanced system could be set up, which would be worth going in, because here, in the bill, I see, unfortunately, it will be possible for some profitable parts to be separated by private operators, or thus to carry out public procurements, and other less profitable parts will obviously be held in Community ownership. At least that's what you've been doing so far, unfortunately, I have to say, that's what you've shown me. I also consider it important that there should be compensation for flights reserved for tourism, as, where appropriate, it may not be worth maintaining such a service on a market basis only if this is not resolved by the government on the side of financing. There are also thousands of people living in these destinations, where tourists often turn around, where there are tens or hundreds of thousands of people, so it is important for them to benefit from community transport, and I ask that the government also consider this proposal, as this could lead to a major problem in the future. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-11-138	Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now it's possible to make a normal comment. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2015-06-11-139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Basically, I would like to address three or four issues. One relates to the introduction of the electronic card itself, its regulatory background. My colleague, Józsa, was concerned with how I should put it at the moment. - the legal background behind this is still very fluid. Technically, the TAB meeting has also been removed from its agenda, the negotiation of this regulation has been removed, and we are now talking about this story as such, in line with the issue of passenger transport. It is as if we are fully aware of how and how, let us say, the regulatory context of the electronic card is developed. It's not good. I don't think that's right. For a long time, I have seen between the walls of Parliament that, when discussing certain draft laws, we are discussing issues that are decisive in the content of the draft law, which are discussed in other parts of another draft law, and which are not yet available. I could give you a lot of examples. It was here in the days that I did not go very far, the draft law discussed within the framework of the school cooperatives, which addressed the elimination of the differences within the passive-active relationship, while it was presented in parallel on behalf of my fellow Member Kósa, another which was aimed at protecting the wages acquired for young people working within the framework of the school cooperatives in the headlines, and while we decided on one during a given day at 12 hours, at half an hour, the other was withdrawn. But the questions were running side by side and complementary. So, a word, like a hundred, is not a good system when legislation is built up with issues of moderate influence not decided, and then considered as evidence within the framework of a more complex bill, as if the legislation had already been passed. The other part of this e-card on the subject is that it has been constantly said that it is optional, it will be introduced within the framework of an optional system, and, therefore, it is necessary to speak calmly, honestly and clearly on this issue. This faculty is not available anywhere, as it becomes binding by not doing so, then the use of benefits is virtually impossible. Of course, we are also meeting a multitude of torsos that, on the one hand, with regard to the existence of an electronic card for young people aged 14 and over, the fact that the facial image and the provision of many others must be made in order to be identifiable, in addition to, let us say, the signature of this card. In fact, I find this controversial because the question of signatures and their handling is not really a valid reason. Consider whether the existence of the right can be verified in the absence of the signature. How the hell not? There are thousands of other control points that provide virtually the possibility of matching the right and the rightholder. On the other hand, especially in the case of a 14-15-16-17-year-old child, and then in the case of their own children, see if they can get him to sign something at the age of 14, and then at the age of 16, how identical the signatures are with the children. This is the time when the way and how the signature changes most, and all I want to do from it is to say that, and then, in connection with a particular check, at a checkpoint, those who will check it are, of course, available as graphologists, and they will be able to authentically determine whether, let's say, what the child countersigned a year ago, is the signature and today's equivalent, is from the same hand. I must say that the necessity of this matter and its practicality can be debated in this sense. We will also present proposals to amend this and other points, not randomly, simply so that, if possible, we can really adapt it to life and improve the development of this law. The other issue, which relates to state fare subsidies. Well, my fellow Members here have already said that not only in terms of various destinations, world heritage sites, but also in terms of others, but also in terms of general, the spirit of the law makes it seem that they can do anything. Not exactly everything that is clearly written down, whatever they can do in terms of driving discounts, can be zeroed down, and in return, of course, they guarantee that the story will be uncompetitored, that competitors will be eliminated and eliminated. I do not think that this exclusivity solves everything, and this is the best way to eliminate duplications that have been said to be unjustified. [[16.40]] I think there are much better ways to do this. We will also try to address this issue with amendments, and I will not present the details here, and I do not want to bore my fellow Members with this. But what I would like to say is that the kind of thinking, the kind of logic that was about, where there is a railway, say, no bus transport, it may not have to be done in this way. Think about it, I don't want to recall the past, but at some point there was MÁVAUT, if I remember correctly, a great institution with such a name, an economic organization, and a coordinated business with a bearing on it, so it was a logical business, which, no matter what time of government, I don't want to cast it out - then, by taking apart a great deal of today's contradictions, and it didn't always bring to life a multitude of units operating in the interests of people. I am not saying that MÁVAUT should be done, no, but I would say that the kind of normal or normal integration that must be developed in the relationship between road and rail transport, should be kept in mind in the context of legislation for those who make the introduction of this type of law. The other part of the story, which concerns the subject of the aforementioned signatures or the various supervisory powers, is that the Minister of Public Finance should know how and what decisions the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Inspector, and the Minister of Transport, dealing with transport issues. I think that if the Minister responsible for public finances needs to know how the Minister responsible for transport decides, then the Prime Minister must know about the decisions of the Minister supervising Aht, then let us put the Prime Minister on this issue. So, either there are those responsible, and these guys are clearly responsible, they can handle the issues from the side of the obligation, or I think they're going to create an infinite surveillance system that is linked to the creation of powers, and then no one will be responsible for anything at the end. And I don't want to tell you what the consequences of that are, because we're seeing it from the last few years. Partial or complete elimination of travel preferences in a sense - or not in a certain sense, clearly - hits people. I think that what should be considered is how and how the rational use of existing, possible, mobile resources is done, where existing irrationality can be eliminated today, rather than how and how benefits can be taken from people. I'll give you an example. It was 2005, if I remember correctly, it wasn't a railway law, it was a public transport law, but it was a part of it, for example, MÁV. In 2005, measures were taken in respect of which, in addition to the employment of people from the MÁV framework in other companies, together with the same activity being carried out for pieces and deca, no matter what unit of measurement we use, so they did the same thing, they lost their discounts. Then, in an interesting way, as time progressed, things took place, processes that led to certain reorganizations within the framework of the MÁV. Where appropriate, the same people have been returned to the MÁV framework, but since they lost their discount in the case of avoidance, no one has ensured that the benefits will be returned. In Hungarian, 40 years ago, 30 years ago, 25 years ago, it doesn't matter how many years they've been doing the same job, there was a change of employer, but the work hasn't changed, they did the same thing, and then they're back to the mother's employer, in the framework of the MÁV, and they don't enjoy the same benefits as they did before. Do you consider this to be a fair method of procedure? I'm not. I consider this to be absolutely incorrect, because at least in the case of people who had previously obtained benefits as employed by the MÁV, because, in any case, let us say, their salary was not increased as they were told that the excess of your salary that you are missing would be provided by the discount that you receive as a supplement to your family, which was taken away from him, and then, once again, just to be fixed, when they were returned to the MÁV bonds, no one would have ensured that these benefits would be returned to the person concerned. But we could also say other such torsos, which affect the multitude of people and can be seen as a phenomenon of life. Let's say that a worker who enjoys this discount and enjoys the child he raises is divorcing. It happens, unfortunately, at least it's not lucky, but it happens. They are divorcing, and let's say the father is the one who carries out activities within the framework of the MÁV, but it is the mother who raises the child, who, for example, as a child living in the countryside, receives university education in Budapest, and has a discount on the MÁV after her father. Since he and his father are not living in a residential home, these benefits are no longer for him. Is that normal? And I could give you countless examples like this. I have only predicted these, that when we deal with the issue of passenger transport, rail transport and many other things in a global context, it might be good to never forget people in addition to working with the systems. We would never forget those who do, say, this activity, who, in connection with, say, doing this activity, would not receive the financial resources that might qualify for them, but would receive other additions that would then be taken away from them, in a way, as I set out the examples, and would never be given back, even if the situation was restored to its original state. One word, like a hundred, I want to say that they would have thousands of humane things to do, not just economic orientation, but considerations that should not be ignored. Among my closing thoughts, I do not wish to miss the fact that Hungary is not a very large country, it has 93,000 square kilometres, but it still has huge differences. Yes, there are many disadvantaged areas in this country. Yes, I believe that these areas absolutely need the catching-up resources and money that, thanks to the European Union, can touch them, and the state has a duty to ensure that in the areas where these resources are less available - Budapest - and there the state guarantees the existence of these resources. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2015-06-11-140	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask who would like to comment, because I see one two-minute man, on behalf of Congressman Nándor Gúr. I don't know if he's holding it. [[Nándor Gúr: Thank you very much, Mr President, no, I will not.]] All right. If there is no further intention to comment, the general debate will be closed and the floor will be given to State Secretary László Tasó.
u2015-06-11-141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Some of the things that have been said during the general debate must be answered, also because there must have been insufficient information with fellow Members about the sentences that we have heard. But if it stays that way in the record, without an answer, then maybe this could be bad. So I'd like to make a few points. First of all, if we are going backwards, I would like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, that there is no such thing as taking any discount. [[Nándor Gúr and Dr. István Józsa intervene.]] I'm asking you not to say that, and not to continue with this day or the next days, to inform the audience that we want to take anything. [[Nándor Gúr: You've already taken it!]] [[16.50]] Another thing that is important is that they must have read and understood it well, but I would like to repeat it once again: it is only in cases where there will be start-ups on a market basis, where the existing flight will otherwise remain. You know that, by the way, exactly, but I think you have said your concerns about this for the sake of the record. Just be more specific. Thus, a self-sustaining service can be launched on a market basis in places where the flights that are currently in existence remain. What is important is that, by the way, a contract must be concluded between the service provider and the Minister for Development, which is a strong commitment. Erzsébet Schmuck is no longer here, in some things... [[Nándor Gúr: But here it is! Dr. István Józsa: There he is, notary!]] I'm sorry, I can see it now. [[Nándor Gúr: You don't follow his movements.]] I wasn't monitoring his movements, yeah. I'd like to confirm there's a misconception. Once again, we are negotiating with the unions every time, so in every case and in every important matter we ask for their opinion, and we always get their answer. So every time the process of law preparation takes place, the trade unions that we have and are in contact with are always subject to your opinion. It is very important for my fellow Member, Mr Volner, to stress that we are paying attention to domestic vehicle production, but there is incorrect information. About the Volvo-Rába affair, just a little detour. The agreement between the two of them is about tracking each other's movements in value. So what Volvo delivers as a value, by the way, is spent here, and so can Rába. There's a settlement between them, which means they're both on the market, they're on the market, they're on the market, and none of them works at the expense of the other. The tariff community, which Mr Józsa also spoke about, and many of you mentioned it, Mr Volner: this is indeed an important and to be followed behaviour, our plan is that, by building a single ticket system, we will naturally also use standardisation in the world of public services in Hungary. We would like to make sure that in the world of public services it is not decided how much it costs to travel a kilometer by bus or by rail, where and in what area it is happening, but that everyone has the same opportunity and a kilometer of equal fees for everyone and for all Community means of transport. It's another story about how to account for it inside and how to account for it. But we would like competition not to be competitive, so we need to be careful about and record the changes in public service that are due, because we know that a new period begins on 1 January 17. So there is no rush, there is a need to be careful about this, and this is being prepared. The Minister's powers are to regulate. Thus, the Minister will not have the power or power to take away ports, his options are manifested in approving the regulatory order. The effective use of public funds is the intention of all Members here, and I do not dispute with anyone that they will make their contribution with this intention, but you must not in any way argue that we will create the systems with this intention and set up the rules. We also want all the discounts that you can get in Hungary to really get to the person to whom you are addressed. That is why it is important to be able to monitor who receives the transport benefits in Hungary. That is why it is necessary that this register be accurate and identifiable. Perhaps that is the short answer to what the dear fellow Members have just said. And I would like to add that there will still be changes in the next period, but the urgency is also justified by the fact that the provision to which we had to adapt our legislation will be in place from 16 June. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-11-142	Dear Parliament, The amendments could be submitted by 16:00. It is now up to the bill on other non-rail rail transport and CLXXXIII of 2005 on rail transport. a joint general debate on the amendment of law and related laws until closure. The submissions are T/4886. and T/4887. available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr.László Tasó, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development.
u2015-06-11-143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The primary objective of the amendment to the Rail Transport Act is to transpose the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a single European railway area. Compared to the directives in force earlier, the Directive has slightly changed the scope of the services available by freight and passenger rail companies in the use of railway infrastructure. This has also led to a change in the rules on the training of infrastructure charges and the calculation of fees. In addition, the Directive included new players, so-called service facilities and their operators, as well as enhanced the conditions of independence for the market surveillance authority. The Directive has therefore brought significant fundamental changes to rail regulation, which is the year 2005 CLXXXIII on rail transport. It made it necessary to amend the law. During the transposition of the rules of the directive, we have taken special care to take into account Hungarian peculiarities and to exempt from the strict provisions of the directive any activities that might be possible. Taking into account certain provisions of the law amendment, it is a fundamental change that certain fixed track systems, such as the glider, the ski lift, the chairlift or the cableway, are excluded from the scope of the law. The relevant rules are set out in the bill on other rail transport not considered railway. We have also reviewed the current concept of the Railway Act, adapted it to the definition of the Directive, and grouped it along a new logic, which we hope will also facilitate the use, understanding and interpretation of the provisions of the Law by the law-makers. The Directive also introduces new categories in the field of rail services, including the existing allocation. For this reason, the concept of urban rail services should also be introduced as a new concept in the Railway Act, separated from the local systems of a category to date. Accordingly, in the case of national metropolitan rail passenger networks, Budapest, Debrecen, Miskolc, Szeged, we must now talk about urban services. Separate rail systems, where appropriate outside municipalities, will be considered to be local systems. A similar separation is the range of non-rail freight undertakings, which, according to previous regulations, have been designated as "own-use infrastructure'. However, given that the Directive provides for the possibility to withdraw from the Directive on side tracks and wing lines in the field of private industrial installations, it was justified to define them separately, taking advantage of the possibility of exemption. This new concept has become a former industrial track in domestic rail regulation. Railway tracks and infrastructure connected to the national network are important because goods representing the largest part of domestic rail transport, plant and industrial installations, or destinations, play a crucial role in the recovery of rail freight. Another change is that the so-called railway licence previously created for the infrastructure manager as a Hungarian feature has been removed from the regulation. The abolition of an operating authorisation does not pose a safety risk and therefore the railway safety authorisation required for infrastructure managers remains. There is a further change in railway infrastructure and services provided that the Directive sets out a basic service package, which must be provided only by the infrastructure manager. It also entrusts the provision of services other than this to a new operator, which is the operator or owner of the service facility. In addition to the large railway, the provisions of the Law on Railway Transport in force also apply to síchlora, the ski lift, the suspension rail, the cableway and the tourist drive. These fixed track activities differ significantly from the large railway, but due to the transposition of the directives, the rules on minor fixed track systems are not sufficiently detailed. At the same time, fixed-track systems are increasingly gaining ground as active forms of recreation, tourism activities, and it is therefore appropriate to provide for a separate legal framework for them, separated from the regulation of rail transport. To this end, we have drawn up a bill setting out the organisational, operational, safety and technical framework for activities. [[17.00]] The bill also addresses the issues of authorisation and official control of these fixed track systems. The regulation does not differ from the existing rail legislation, provided that the transport authority will continue to carry out road safety and licensing and control activities. In determining the general conditions for the pursuit of other track activities, the primary aspect was the reduction of administrative burdens and the establishment of clear and easy-to-know rules for law enforcement. In view of the foregoing, I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament to support the 2005 CLXXXIII. changes to the law. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2015-06-11-144	Now we're going to have keynote speeches. In this context, I give the floor first to Pál Völner, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-11-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law before Parliament contains basic rules on so-called other fixed-track transport systems which differ significantly from the major railway, which are currently covered by CLXXXIII of 2005 on rail transport. they are laid down in law. On the so-called other fixed-track transport systems - as the Secretary of State has said, shuttle, ski lift, hanging rail, cableway tourist drive - it is largely unjustified to ask for EU and domestic requirements for large-roads, so that they can be put into service and operated under more transparent legal conditions in the future. Since the primary reason for the creation of the Railway Act was the transposition of the so-called EU directives on large railways, the application of the provisions of the Law has caused difficulties in practice with other fixed-track transport systems, which could be remedied by means of implementing regulations issued under the authorisation of the Law. However, Directive 2012/34/EU establishing a single railway area repealed a number of earlier directives and brought about a change that made it necessary to amend the rail legislation to a significant extent. Therefore, the possibility of regulating other fixed-track transport systems has been opened up in a separate law. The creation of a separate law allows for the creation of frameworks for all kinds of recreational and tourism-free fixed-track devices, such as those without safety requirements. The legislation on railway workers has not changed and is not affected by the bill. Although a separate law settles issues relating to other fixed-track transport, the administrative and administrative activities related thereto continue to be carried out by the Minister for Transport and by the rail transport authority. The proposal states that a technical authorisation is required for the construction, construction, installation, modernisation, conversion, use, maintenance and elimination of the track and other fixed tracks of the trolleybus with the exception of the lower cabled ski lift, and for the installation of vehicles operating on other fixed-track transport systems. The technical authorisation shall be issued by the transport authority. The infrastructure manager's railway licence may be terminated, but this does not pose a risk, as the necessary checks will be carried out during the railway safety authorisation. This change reduces the administrative and financial burden of national, municipal and other infrastructure managers. The amending proposal reviews the concept of the law in such a way that it reclassifies the definitions according to a logic that facilitates the transposition of future EU legislation, the fourth railway package. With the planned adoption of legal harmonisation, the maintenance of Hungarian railway traditions can take place in addition to the survival of best domestic practices, in order to maintain and increase the competitiveness of the sector and its successful development. Hungary may avail itself of the full range of exemptions provided for in Community provisions. In this way, it may, among other things, exclude from the scope of the EU Directive side tracks and lines in the field of private industrial establishments carrying out transport by rail as a non-essential activity. The simpler and cheaper maintenance and operation of industrial tracks facilitates the spread of freight transport by rail, which has been emphasised by my fellow Members who spoke earlier. Now allow me to refer to the main provisions of the proposal. Four, five. § by determining the tolerance obligation, the company operating the trolleybus allows it to place the means to facilitate the transport of trolleybuses and its safety on the property next to the trolleybus overhead line and to remove the trees and shrubs which hinder the free view. However, I would like to emphasise that placement, repair and maintenance can take full account of environmental and nature conservation interests. The same rules shall also apply to the installation of support lines and weak current lines, associated support structures, beacons, other signals or temporary devices belonging to other fixed-track transport systems. The removal of vegetation should not cause disproportionate damage to the interests of the population concerned or to environmental and nature conservation interests. Of course, the owner of the property is entitled to compensation corresponding to the level of obstruction due to the obstruction of the normal use of the property. Article 6 In order to carry out other fixed-track transport activities, a licence issued by the transport authority is not required. Such activities may only be carried out on the basis of a notification. The information to be provided to the authority at the time of notification will be specified in a separate Ministerial Regulation. Article 7 According to § 3, the establishment and conversion of the other fixed-track transport system requires a technical authorisation, which is issued by the transport authority. The exception is the lower cabled ski lift. The technical authorisation is both a construction permit and a vehicle licence, as these two categories cannot normally be interpreted for other fixed-track transport systems. The installation of the lower cabled ski lift is closer to the assembly and attachment of the stunted equipment, so that, like the stunted equipment, only the certification of a conformity assessment body is required. Article 8 § 2 states that the essential technical safety requirements for other fixed-track transport systems must be contained in a ministerial regulation. Síchlora, ski lifts and suspension trains are currently subject to such regulation, as they are subject to the requirements of a 2003 GKM Regulation. Articles 10 and 12 § 2 lays down basic training rules for workers responsible for the safe operation of other fixed-track transport systems and settle the tasks of the transport authority in relation to the control of training. Training standards are aimed solely at ensuring safe operation, and the bill does not implement legislation that is stricter than the training standards that are still in place today. Dear House, On this proposal, it is also worth mentioning that Hungary can spend more than a thousand billion forints from EU funds to improve transport in the next seven years. The biggest investments are typically expected in the rail sector, but urban and suburban transport are also planned to be improved, fast-track and related other road network developments. To sum up, the benefits of the proposal will be made clear, transparent, easy-to-apply and applicable legislation for law enforcement. The adoption of the law may reduce administrative burdens and avoid unnecessary regulatory provisions. We hope that the law can contribute to the spread of other fixed-track transport systems, including the recovery of tourism, active use of leisure time, exercise and sport. Please take these aspects into account in the debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause.]]
u2015-06-11-146	I now give the floor to István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2015-06-11-147	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Looking at the multitude of transport agendas here, you might as well think that the Ministry of National Development has been tagged, because it is pouring out the professional proposals before the House, which can really be said for good. [[17.10]] For example, there is T/4886 on other fixed-track transport not considered railway. Legislative proposal No. 3, which mainly contains technical rules. According to the current legislation, all standards and requirements for fixed track transport are laid down in the Rail Transport Act, the Railway Act. This means that devices such as ski lifts are also included in the rules of the Grand Railroad, which is not justified at all. The proposal provides, in a professionally eligible way, for its purpose, that they should be set up in a separate law. In particular, taking this into account, the MSZP supports this part of the proposal - I hope there will be a separate vote on this and the other part - because it is primarily for policy reasons that separate forms of fixed-track transport are incorporated into separate legislation, and these technical wordings seem quite correct. The main reason for the establishment of the other Law on rail transport was the fact that the 2005 CLXXXIII on rail transport was in force. The main objective of the Act was the transposition of EU legislation, i.e. a legislative harmonisation proposal in 2005 and thus the regulation was not drawn up in sufficient detail for smaller, less complex fixed track systems. However, these fixed track activities show significant differences and differences. At the same time, the regulatory framework should be set up in a separate law from the regulation of rail transport. The Minister for Transport and the Railway Transport Authority shall carry out administrative and administrative activities in this area. The proposal states that a technical authorisation is required for the construction, installation, modernisation, conversion, entry into service, maintenance and termination of the trolleybus and other fixed track, with the exception of the lower cabled ski lift, as well as for the installation of vehicles operating on other fixed track transport systems. The technical authorisation shall be issued by the transport authority. In many of the elements that have so far not been regulated at all or in detail, other tied track activities will thus be regulated by law in the form of a regulatory framework. This is supported by the MSZP fraction. There is a second part of the submission, T/4887. Number 1, which is also CLXXXIII of 2005 on rail transport. It is about amending law and related laws. Now, here we have much more questions and concerns. Obviously, this proposal contains quite a lot of definitions, but a good part of them does not contain sufficiently precise wording, sometimes incorrect or contrary to other existing legislation. Here, for example, is the expression, "the much-exploited section of the track". A track section with a utilisation of less than 10 per cent of the theoretical capacity shall be considered as such. However, what is theoretical capacity? Without a legal description or guidance, how can the Ministry determine that? This is the extent of the current 101/2007. In the GKM Regulation, 25 per cent, i.e. less than 25 per cent, was considered to be largely unused. What is the reason why the largely unused track section is reduced from 25 percent to 10 percent, and what is the theoretical capacity that we do not currently know? There's also a good suggestion, this is the rail-electric or foreign word tram-train. This would, in particular, be a solution with many possibilities in Budapest. In Germany, this is the S-Bahn system in Berlin and other major cities, which helps a lot in public transport. This, however, does not show what conditions this is expected to take place in practice. So do you think about the tram-train solution in particular, or is it just a remote idea? The question is whether there are concrete government plans. When, from what source could such a construction start, a transformation? This is a form of urban transport that is specifically supported in the Union, as an extension of an existing railway infrastructure at relatively low cost could be linked to urban public transport. This was a positive example of a coercion, but still alive, during your 1990 cabbike. It was never possible to get from Kelenföld to the Eastern Railway Station as quickly, in 10 minutes as it was then, as a result of the excellent organizational work of the railwaymen. If they were able to be able to do so in an emergency situation, smart and agility, then I hope that they will be able to do so even more now, with further improvements in electronics. There's a lot of demand for that. So this part is very supportive of us. There's another, a little more limpy part, the little train. The main distinctive aspect of the proposal is the tourism objective. What professional consideration required this definition? In our view, this is a technical error, because it is actually the narrow track gauge, which is what is relevant, because the much lower security risk and the lower costs are not the natural characteristic of the small railway, which is physically related to tourism, but to the narrow track. I hope it is not determined on the basis of the fact that the railway, which is otherwise a normal track gauge, can be classified as a small railway on this basis. My fellow Member shows that this is not the case. Uncle County doesn't cross the highway train, the real train stays on the train. It's a little under-substantiated as to why the normal track gauge could be a small train. The next category in question is the railway company. The proposal does not define it, but it would be extremely important to define in a precise and practical rule what is considered to be a railway undertaking. Will it be the railway company that the government has decided that it is? Because if the criteria are not defined, then all that remains is that a government decision comes and says that this is the railway company. That doesn't seem comforting. The designation of State aid lacks the title of combined traffic development in the list, to which the proposal also provides for central budget support, and this is extremely important. An important element in the competitiveness of rail freight would be the condition that combined traffic development be included in the eligible targets. It's a question of why they missed this, by accident, or something we don't know. Does the amount of toll revenues continue to determine domestic transport policy? 'Cause if it's not a supported thing, so that the truck is rolling on a railway wagon at a given station and so organized, environmentally friendly crossing the country, or even going on the railroad, so if it's out of the way for the purposes, it means you're in favour of tolling the trucks. [[17.20]] However, this has a number of negative impacts on pollution, traffic and other impacts. I'd like to continue with the open questions here - wow, there's plenty more. Do I have 15 minutes, Mr. President? [[Intercoms: 30.]] 30? Then I'll ask you everything that's come up, all of them. Providing open access. It is proposed that the connecting rail track should be considered as part of the open rail network. Now, here's the question: what is a connecting railway track? To the next intersection is the connecting track, or when you can go to another area, the main line? Who will determine how long the connecting rail track will last? So this is such a small blurry area that it is necessary to provide open access to the connecting rail track, but for how long. Then the next such interpretation anomaly is the network access bonus. With regard to congested infrastructure, a fee may be set that reflects the lack of capacity. However, there is no maximum, there is no measure. The Office may determine any fee it deems appropriate. How does this affect economic competition and the previously defined right to open access? So these two categories specifically contradict each other, especially with no maximization, no part of the tariff assigned to it. There is a comprehensive change, different network access charges should be applied to EU rail corridors on trains in order to encourage the installation of ETCS equipment. The application of different charges should not lead to a comprehensive change in the revenues of the network manager. Now, that's quite a touch. What does the term "overall change" mean here, which cannot result from the application of the fee in the revenue of the operator of the track? Does the infrastructure manager want additional revenue by applying fees, or is the objective of the legislator to limit the possibility of collecting these various additional charges? This does not show that it cannot lead to a comprehensive change. There is another interesting thing that is basically defined by law, the performance incentive system. The principles of the performance incentive scheme and the detailed rules for the performance incentive scheme are also laid down by the Minister. Now, here's an anomaly that principles are laid down by law, and the minister's task is to define the rules of detail. What happened here that they differ in the performance incentive system, and this law wants to put the whole thing under the minister's responsibility? Won't it be, how do I say, too much responsibility for the minister over there, which might be insufferable? So I'd like to protect the wallet from taking on any responsibility that it might find difficult to meet. There is such a next category as a route book. By the way, the rapporteur also mentioned this, but he considered it such a natural consequence that for the undertaking railway undertakings... - it is natural for you to have to draw up the route book, but these railway undertakings rightly object and find it unacceptable that they have to draw up the valid route book. Why not release the PSF on the basis of information kept up-to-date by the track operator? So even such access problems arise here. So this route book seems to be such a small obvious thing that, of course, the entrepreneurial railway company is doing it, but in detail, it may not be that simple. The following is the technical authorisation. What would the technical license cover, and on what basis would it be issued? Problem is that the maintenance company of railway vehicles maintained abroad will not have a Hungarian technical license. Why should a type authorisation for railway vehicles be requested in Hungary if it already exists in a Member State of the European Union? So here the technical authorisation - as a category in the EU law-harmonisation Act - does not seem to reflect a little bit the principle of free movement and the practice of mutual recognition of the EU free movement. Urban and suburban services. The railway undertaking holding an urban and suburban operating licence may use the railway infrastructure other than the railway infrastructure specified in the operating licence up to the nearest railway hub specified in its operating licence with the prior consent of the infrastructure manager. That's quite logical, because where there is no connection point, you can't stop before it, even though it's there, let's say, an administrative border. But how do you imagine this in practice? How's this gonna work? Unlike urban and suburban services, it is precisely the regional railway company that cannot be operated without such an opportunity. So we believe that these two, urban, suburban services and the operating conditions of regional railway companies should be combed together. There is scope, but we believe that more harmonised regulation is needed. Then there's a little something here, the area of increased administrative costs. A significant change in the level of activity of a company is considered to be a significant change if, within a business year, the number of persons employed in railway safety jobs is increased or reduced by 10 per cent, but by at least five per cent. That's a significant change. The five-person change in staff is already in line with a Hungarian small enterprise, this can happen very soon, so administrative costs may also increase significantly. So this, where, what numbers are required, or what numbers may be replaced by electronics and security improvements, is important to examine because competitiveness can be seriously undermined by increasing administrative costs. A request for a special journey shall be submitted to the authority for the operation of an individual railway vehicle, type or installation permit or individual railway vehicle with no track number in the national railway infrastructure. How does this rule apply? This railway vehicle is likely to be travelling in trains rather than in the process, so we can even imagine that this is the result of some translation problem. We would therefore like to clarify the matters relating to the use and putting into service of the individual railway vehicle. Recreational time for drivers of railway vehicles. There is a very tangled situation here, so it seems that, on the one hand, a guaranteed rest period must be provided for everyone who works in a responsible railway vehicle driver's position and, on the other hand, you are planning to introduce here that travel time is not included in the daily rest period, which, according to railway passengers, means that all drivers in the country have to set this time individually. [[17 .30]] It is necessary to take into account the timetable for public transport, possible delays and other possibilities for accession. Thus, the less defined passage, which says that travel time is not included in the daily rest period, suggests how the employment of residents away from their premises can be solved. You can't have a monthly mandatory watch. How will they be able to perform the standard hours required for their payment? How do you intend to solve all these additional administrative obligations without disruption? Therefore, the aim is to guarantee the rest time for drivers, which is eligible, but according to the experts it can raise serious practical problems. The rate of the annual supervisory fee, this whole problem, is that the administrative fees are quite high, especially given that some companies carry out more of the activities, or do only one or two of them. Companies with multiple activities shall pay each fee for the authorisation of each activity separately. This, given the fact that there are quite a lot of repetitions in these permits and that the specialty is at the end, is disproportionately high in terms of cost coverage and additional costs. So here we are proposing to introduce a sense of operation, a reasonable authority authorisation and a degressive rate of official fees for interrelated activities, i.e. the definition of a real authorisation process, an annual supervisory fee in line with real expenses. In addition to the level of official licensing and procedure fees, which is today, vehicle operation and vehicle repair in Hungary may be at a significant competitive disadvantage, leading companies to the re-registration of vehicles registered in Hungary abroad, which may point to this point, while at the same time significantly impairing the market position of vehicle repairers in Hungary. So, what I have said logically is that overlaps should be removed from official fees, and thus the competitive disadvantage should be eliminated, which is already a practical problem, so this re-registration is already happening today. In the case of non-railway transport, which is eligible for us as a whole, it raises the question of the tourist drive that it is not possible to operate on railway infrastructure that is not blocked from traffic in the case of paragraph 1 above. What experience does such standards have to be based on? There is no such railway line. It is pointless to limit it to such a legal level, to be terrified of certain situations that cannot really arise, especially the fact that a significant part of them is characterised by extremely small traffic. So here we would propose a regulation that is more in line with practice. The other is the fine. A fine may be imposed on the keeper of the trolleybus overhead line or on the operator of the ski lift. The immediate and unavoidable fine is only a tax burden on companies, no incentive to comply with the law, while in the case of fines, this proposal considers it only an option. So here we would like to see a reflection that is already in place for SMEs, for example, which has an impact on improving quality, improving the status, and does not consider the maximum collection of fines as a priority. I don't know what the right solution is, either gradual or progressive, but now it seems to the experts that it's more about collecting fines. To sum up, the opinion of our group and the professional opinions received by our group, the amendment of legislation on track traffic, which is part b) of the agenda, which is not sufficiently prepared from a professional point of view, has numerous codification errors, and there are internal contradictions, as well as a lack of norm. The amendments will not consistently help what is set out in the introduction to create a coherent, easy-to-use regulatory environment that helps competitiveness in Hungary. We see this opportunity - a number of my questions - to correct this, but in its present form, the MSZP cannot yet support this proposal; as opposed to their non-rail proposal. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[Nándor Gúr applauds.]]
u2015-06-11-148	I give the floor to Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-06-11-149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, T/4886 on other fixed-track transport other than rail. I would just like to comment briefly on the legislative proposal No. The reason for the specific regulation of the draft law we are discussing is that recreational and tourism-bound transport has a relatively small risk and therefore does not justify detailed regulation that is required by the Railway Act. Moreover, this area is not subject to EU law. From this point of view, the trolleybus is double, because it is covered by all relevant road traffic legislation, but because of the overhead contact line it is not rail, so the regulation is set up here. Jobbik is eligible for a draft of 25 paragraphs, but we do see a need for amendments in one place. The proposal has been drawn up, and we trust the wise minds of the governing parties to accept our professional comments. I wouldn't bore anyone with the detailed presentation and discussion of the proposal, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that Article 16 Paragraph 3 of Article 3 contains a provision that, in this case, the client would be excluded from exercising his procedural rights under this regulation in the event that he has not made a statement or made an application in the main proceedings. This regulation is unviable and inexplicable, since the authority acting in the second instance is reviewing the whole of the contested first instance procedure with certain restrictions, and in the course of the review, questions may arise, decisions may be taken that could harm the right or legitimate interest of customers without such facts or issues being raised in the main proceedings. The elimination of such a guarantee rule cannot be justified, and we do not even see an attempt by the legislator to explain this, so Jobbik is 16. The Committee recommends that paragraph 3 of Section 3 be deleted. What is more serious and which requires more comments and comments is CLXXXIII of 2005 on rail transport. Amendment to Act T/4887 the draft is presented to us. My fellow Members have already made many valuable contributions here. We will also do our part, and we will also praise it, but I would like to say that we have a number of reservations and questions that we will try to support with concrete examples. By the way, in April, a new law was to be introduced, and the decision was finally made to introduce the amendments into the existing law. This change has resulted in the absence of some elements planned for the new law. [[17.40]] Paragraph 3 contains a provision that, in this case, the customer would be excluded from exercising his procedural rights under this regulation if he did not make a statement in the main proceedings or made an application. This regulation is unviable and inexplicable, since the authority acting in the second instance is reviewing the whole of the contested first instance procedure with certain restrictions, and in the course of the review, questions may arise, decisions may be taken that could harm the right or legitimate interest of customers without such facts or issues being raised in the main proceedings. The elimination of such a guarantee rule cannot be justified, and we do not even see an attempt by the legislator to explain this, so Jobbik is 16. The Committee recommends that paragraph 3 of Section 3 be deleted. What is more serious and which requires more comments and comments is CLXXXIII of 2005 on rail transport. Amendment to Act T/4887 the draft is presented to us. My fellow Members have already made many valuable contributions here. We will also do our part, and we will also praise it, but I would like to say that we have a number of reservations and questions that we will try to support with concrete examples. By the way, in April, a new law was to be introduced, and the decision was finally made to introduce the amendments into the existing law. This change has resulted in the absence of some elements planned for the new law. (17.40) A new definition of classification concepts for railway lines and railway infrastructure seems to be a dry introduction, but a very important part of the proposed amendment. This partly includes simplifications, but also introduces new concepts. It is an important and welcome change that the suburban network can no longer be formed only in the area of Budapest, and this opportunity will also be opened to rural cities with a large railway area. The infrastructure category of national sidelines opens up the possibility to rebuild some of the infrastructure elements currently neglected, which are designed to play a significant role in the long term. The exception of international discrimination simplifies the classification system. The breakdown of the categories of services follows the above, the public contribution is excluded, so, in principle, any category of service can be operated on a market basis without a public service contract. That's a step forward in the Jobbik's view. The concept of the new law through the integrated railway company allows, in principle, the reassembling of the MÁV to pieces into a legal person that we could very much support. The EU did not require that the MÁV be dismembered, but that the railway activity be managed separately. So this could be good, but it would have to be done. The intention is not clear, unfortunately, as the separate infrastructure manager remains an existing conceptual element of the proposal, so that everything remains the same; it is not certain that this is the right direction, by the way. GYSEV is an integrated railway company and MÁV is not. This is reflected in the efficiency difference between the two railways, although it is also a fact that GYSEV's actual cost-based financing is fully ensured and the MÁV Group's financing is not. An important difference from the previous law is that the task of the State is to operate and develop only national infrastructure and national railway lines. Part of this is that only the operation, renovation and development of these railway lines are directly public tasks, public interest and public interest activities. The classification of railway lines of national importance is not governed by the law, but by the Government Decree No 168/2010. Moreover, this regulation will be amended following the amendment of the law, the Parliament has no influence on it, only the government. We certainly feel this is dangerous. This is wrong, because elected representatives thus have no say in which area the railway transport routes can be entered by the beneficiary, which is State-supported, so that they can be considered for development in the future. The classification of railway lines according to significance was previously provided in the Annex to the Act. This practice was also eliminated by the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments to open the way for the closure of small railway roads in rural areas and before the closure of the rural sidelines, which took place in two steps, in 2007 and 2009. We remember the shame of the destruction of the countryside, which was carried out by the execution of half a hundred sidelines. It is amazing cynicism that the outgoing Bajnai government adopted this decree on the day of the establishment of the new Parliament which replaced them. However, it is an even greater shame that it remains unchanged to this day. The government representatives - who are already here - do not say that they have reopened these lines, because only a third of them have been reopened, and most of them are currently barely vegetating, there is only an alibi transport. If this amendment is adopted, the rural railways will lose even the hope of state development; we feel a very, very serious risk here. The proposal for an amendment of the law finally excluded the 7th amendment. The idea that the suburban railway network could, in future, have belonged to a local government or associations thereof, has been published in previous drafts concerning §8. Thus, the development and operation of the Debrecen-Tisalök and Debrecen-Nagykereki lines as suburban railways, for example, should be classified as national-important sidelines. This once again shows the enormous importance of how important the ministerial regulation will have, i.e. we are really meeting here, indeed, with a matter that should have been regulated in the annex to the law. By the way, let's look forward to this honest answer as to why this isn't happening there. The right to operate the railway track shall be governed by the law on national assets. This Act contains a detailed list of railway lines which are part of the national core network, which will continue to be reserved for public or majority state-owned railway undertakings in the future. Two trans-European rail lines have been left out of the list of this law: the Győr-Sopron and the Fertőszentmiklós border. That's why Annex 4 is included in this law. So, fellow Members, what is here in Annex 4 and the 2011 CLXXXXVI on national assets. Act No 1 is not included in points 1 and 2 of Chapter B of Annex 1; it is in danger. There is a possibility that in the future there will be no development or state-sanctioned maintenance. Once again, I stress that the issue of railway lines of national importance should be regulated in accordance with the National Property Act in the Annex to this Act. Although I'm gonna ask you with some militia what a law is good for if you don't follow it anyway. What am I thinking here? National core network line is also the Füzesabony-Eger-Putnok railway line - yes, according to your 2011 decision - but the Eger-Budapest relationship remains primarily served by a bus. The trains in Budapest, which would be possible to travel to Felnémet, will not reach downtown Eger; instead of being a suburban to Szilvásvárad, there is actually an alibi transport here, which is not even suitable to serve tourist needs. And here's the punch line. Between Szilvásvárad-Putnok, traffic continues to pause, yes. The restoration was not carried out on a national core network line in five years. What, then, can we expect on rural railways that are on the list of deaths of the Bajna decree? It may seem funny, but rather tragic is the fact that the national core network line is the border line of Nógrádszakál-Ipolytarnóc-country border line, which is part of the Aszód-Balassagyarmat-Ipolytarnóc line, but Balassagyarmat's relationship with the capital, on the other hand, is a simple regional railway which is eliminated from development sources. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: What The State enters into an asset management contract with railway undertakings on national core network and state-owned suburban and nation-wide sidelines. Regional and suburban infrastructure, if owned by the State, will also be concluded by the State. Not for other lines and lines that are not strategically relevant. Of course, the latter can be operated by anyone, but it can be predicted that market investors will not push. And don't you think, Mr. Secretary, I'm not very pessimistic, if that's what I'm assuming. According to the current classification, for example, the Széchenyi Mountain Children's Railway, or to mention my narrower Patria, Somogyország, the Kaposvár-Siófok line, the Kál-Kápolna-Siújszállás or the Fehérgyarmat-Zajta railway lines. We support the new rules on open access, distribution of track capacity, capacity allocation and leasing of service facilities, one-stop shop, surcharges and discounts on track access charges, so there is not only a criticism on the part of the Jobbik Hungary Movement. We also consider it important to step up the simplified regulatory provisions on industrial tracks and the operation of railway infrastructure for own use. It is a regrettable fact that Hungary has lost these integrated freight transport systems in many production units because of the over-regulation in the last two decades, the thoughtless application of the strict regulations on large railways, which I have mentioned a few times before, and it has put goods transport on the road in a favourable position. [[17.50]] The provisions that are now being introduced could lead to a slow recovery process, which could help to halt the loss of domestic freight traffic in the rail network and create more economic opportunities to create new ones, which could improve the competitiveness of rail transport vis-à-vis the road. We can also support this with a full chest width. We also warmly welcome the introduction of simplified provisions for the operation of small railway and museum railways, as these facilities can significantly enrich the tourism programme offer in a small area. Although there have already been discounts on procedural charges for transport authorities, they have been subject to the conditions of the major railway system in terms of technical, railway safety and administrative burdens, and we must admit that they are not justified. Compliance with these regulators meant an additional financing requirement for small railways, which in many cases led to their disappearance and, in other cases, their degradation, despite the fact that most of them satisfy significant tourist needs or serve as an approach to tourist destinations. In this process, the small railway in Nyírvidék, which was not primarily a tourist railway, but a public service function, was discontinued. These simplifications are therefore of great importance in terms of operating these types of railways, reducing the costs of their use and putting them into service. Their introduction may still save you, revive you worthy of a better fate, no longer used, but still existing networks. Different rules on rail-electric, so-called tram-train systems are also new elements in the law. We can say that this is an amendment to the law of the Hódmezővásárhely due to great lobbying power, just to answer the question of my fellow Member Józsa. He asked the Secretary of State where they were planning to do this. Well, we'll tell you, in Hungary, a tram-train system will be built in the coming years, on the tram-train of Hódmezővásárhely-Szeged tram. We're happy for the success of Hódmezővásárhely, by the way, obviously. Otherwise, it does not include that this is indeed the most well-founded fixed-track transport development in Hungary. However, the railway line Szeged-Hódmezővásárhely-Békéscsaba is part of the national core network, so it also promises to be an open rail track under the new railway law. It can only be hoped that because of this showcase tram-train project, the Békéscsaba-Szeged rail connection, direct passenger and freight transport will not cease. Of course, it may also be that, in order to install tram-train in Hódmezővásárhely, 85/N. The Commission will then be asked for an EU-Commission authorisation to exclude from open access infrastructure that is not strategically relevant. However, this step will have a disastrous impact on rail freight transport in the region. What do we mean by that? Between Szeged and Békéscsaba, rail freight transport can in essence cease. Is it worth it? We're seriously asking if it's worth it, Mr. Secretary. Either way, it's just a sideline to the law amendment. To sum up, the amendment of the Railway Act contains a number of important new regulatory and legislative harmonisation elements. In addition to many eligible parts, however, there is an element which makes it impossible to support in its present form. This is the fact that the national sideline classification of the railway network, thus excluding Parliament, will continue to be decided by the government on the future of the rural railways. We can therefore support the adoption of the proposal only if our proposed amendment to the classification of national railway sublines, which has been submitted in order, which puts the classification list in Annex 5 to the Act instead of the currently unknown government regulation, will be supported. The list of national railway lines should be regulated in the Annex to the Act in order to preserve the unity of the railway network, to guarantee state maintenance and development. The list of the Annex to the amendment on the railway lines concerned is not for self-interest. The network's unit, the railways of national importance for the transport provision of certain areas, which are either currently in operation, thus carrying out freight and passenger transport tasks, or their restoration is indeed necessary in Jobbik's view in order to enhance the network's domestic and international connections and interoperability. In addition, there are currently paused sidelines that will play a role in the future due to the development of suburban traffic or the approach of national tourist destinations, or at least hope that they will continue to play a role in the future and will not be cut off. Let me remind you of some of the ideas here, which I would like once again to draw to the attention of my fellow pro-government Members, which I would like them to hear. Jobbik has always represented that in a rural region, the same utilisation parameters, the same number of passengers, should be expected as in the area of Budapest. This is why we are talking about public services, among other things. The fate of the lines that we talked about here is a question of transport policy beyond the competence of the MÁV, in close connection with the issues of territorial development and rural policy, which is why we are discussing it here. To make the right decision and to revive their good conscience, let me quote the words of my fellow Member, Pál Völner, who is pro-government, to News TV in January 2010:, We will reopen the lines, because the actual savings in line closings are ridiculously low. But it should also be engraved on gold tablets, the sentence of Secretary General Fónagy:. The railway does not benefit itself, but benefits everyone, so we must look at it, and it is therefore an obligation to develop it. And they also said very nicely when they said that public transport is a public service, essentially not an economic and corporate issue. The state does not favor its rural citizens when operating the railway, it is a fundamental state obligation. We hope that not only in opposition, but also in government, this is what our fellow Members of Fidesz and KDNP think. We hope that the list of national railway sidelines is not requiem-like, the 32 sidelines we feel that their fate is not completely settled, which we would like you to declare here with full breast width, in front of the Parliament, that they will be retained, they will continue to be operated: Szombathely-Kőszeg-line, Zalaegerszeg-Rédics, Kaposvár-Fonyód, Dombóvár-Bátyszek, Gyépény-Barc-Szentlő, Szentlő-Rinc-Sellye, Vác-Balassagyarmat-Zajta, Asód-Balassagyarmat-Nógrádszakál, Vámosszúsgyörgyörk-Györögyszegő, Debrecen-Sárszöveszöveszöveszövesz-Töveszöveszöveszöveszöveszöm-Tisző-Tisző-Tisző-Tiszárő-Tisző-Tisző-Tisző-Tisző, Debresző-Tiszárő-Tisző-Tisző-Tisző-Tisző-Tisző-Tisző-Tisző-Tisző-Tisző-Tisző-Tisző-Tiszászászászászászászál, Má, Mégszászászászászászászászászászásár-Tár, Még-Sz-Sz-Szo, Mégő-Ségő-Szo, Mégszágszágszágszág-Szo, Mégszágszágszágszágszágszágszág-Szo, Mégszágszágszágszágszágszágszágszágszág-Szo, Még-S Unfortunately, apart from Mr Secretary of State, there are only two of my pro-government fellow Members in this Chamber, but I would like the news of this to be brought to the attention of all the other pro-government Members. We would like our pro-government fellow Members to be able, in the future, to look the citizens in the eye in the face of the fate of these sidelines. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[18.00]]
u2015-06-11-150	I now give the floor to Erzsébet Schmuck, the leader of the LMP Group.
u2015-06-11-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The two legislative proposals before us are the result of a separation. The 2005 CLXXXIII on rail transport Act T/4887 amending Act T/4887 and related laws Proposal No 1 is an amendment made in place of the previously promised new railway law. Out of the law, non-large railway rail systems are excluded, and new legislation is created to deal with them, which is T/4886. We're looking at you. The separation is justified, since they must comply with a whole different set of conditions. Other rules should also apply to side tracks and lines in the area of private industrial installations. However, while separation is justified, it should be borne in mind at the principle level that transport systems must be seen together, and in particular Community transport must be regulated on the basis of uniform principles. I would not long describe the benefits of public transport, as a public service, in a society, how it serves the common good, balanced economic development, and how much more environmentally friendly it is compared to road transport and passenger transport. These arguments are known to everyone, and LMP has always been clearly in favour of Community transport. The most important ambition in Community transport is sustainability, which means not only environmental and social sustainability, but also economic sustainability. In other words, the competitiveness of Community transport must be ensured by linking the different modes of transport. In particular, rail has strategic importance, maintaining and strengthening its share is also a matter of national strategy and national security. Another important aspect on which we assess these laws is the situation of workers. Since the current government is constantly reducing workers' rights, including the limitation of strike law, the importance of their wage deals at sectoral and national level, it weakens labour controls, and we need to look at the situation from this point of view. On the basis of these considerations, the past period is not one of the brightest, but it can be said that the current government has continued its predecessors' policy, the decline and the unexploited opportunities are typical. In the case of the Fidesz government, it is an aggravating factor that they did this despite their promises to the contrary; let us consider the protest against the closure of the railway wing lines and the then Fidesz communication. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] However, the effort is appreciated, which again tries to organize the previously outsourced, in a way, related companies around the MÁV. However, in other areas, if we look at the broader picture, there is a breakdown of the rail sector. Deterioration is not only about infrastructure, but also about human resources. Although huge improvements are now promised, the renovation of some lines does not replace the good functioning of the system as a whole, while it consumes amazing resources. Dear Parliament, T/4887. One of the reasons for amending Law No 13 is the application of Directive 2012/34/EU. To a large extent, it will redirect the proper regulation of the Directive. We do not argue with this because we are talking about uniform rules that apply throughout Europe. However, it is worth mentioning that, as a result, it remains a state task to operate the national core network railway track, with which we absolutely agree, the provision of railway services is, and must remain, a state task, according to the LMP's understanding. The critical point of the law is the regulation of freight transport. Rail freight has experienced huge market losses in recent years. Since the crisis, one third of the market has been lost, and the dominance of the road continues to grow, along with all its negative social and environmental impacts. This causes enormous, even irreversible, damage to rail freight transport, a very rapid deterioration, so it is not possible to correct errors with a government operating in a normal philosophy. Without a well-functioning railway, there is no well-functioning economy. In terms of details, the number of licensed railway transport companies is now around 40, along with the three large ones. Opening the market is not a success story either, to say the least, due to typical domestic problems. The big ones - MÁV, RC, Rail Cargo Hungaria Zrt. and GYSEV - they have a distinct competitive disadvantage vis-à-vis private companies, and this does not mean that there is real competition. At the same time, small businesses cannot work calmly because of unclear conditions and poor regulation. Rail transport has previously had a very significant disadvantage vis-à-vis the road, since it had to pay a toll on free roads. This has been reduced by the introduction of partial tolls, but with other obstacles it is still huge. The impact of road lobbying and the killing of rail transport of trucks and the fact that there would be undertakings for this purpose, but they would not be authorised for administrative reasons, are considered unacceptable. Thousands of trucks across the country could be transported by rail. According to estimates by the Institute of Transport Sciences, this would save about HUF 80 billion a year. But it would also be important from an environmental point of view, and it would also improve road safety. It would mean a thousand lives, which, although hard to express in money, I still think there is no one to deny its significance. With regard to disorderly relations, the anomalies of opening the market, unfortunately, private railways can easily obtain the most valuable snacks on the market. There are already questions about monitoring compliance with the law with sufficient rigour. Quite astonishing examples illustrate the competitive advantage. The Intercity is being pulled out of the way of a private company's freight train - it's unbelievable! Or they employ private companies for workers who are dismissed due to inadequacy by the large ones, even though in principle very strict conditions must be met. In the meantime, the situation of workers is not improving, there are continuous redundancies. So the task is to stop the loss of the market for rail freight transport, the reduction of rail transport and the loss of workers here, because this is irreversibly damaging to the national economy. One way to do this is not only to set up a partial, but also a road-wide km-based toll for road freight. A significant part of the revenue needs to be reinvested in the development of rail transport. In addition, other concrete steps should be taken to shift road freight transport onto rails. There are two important things about market opening. On the one hand, companies operating on the market must be subject to very strict control and the purity of competition must be ensured. This generally applies to private companies, but in some cases the unfair conduct of public operators must also be sanctioned. On the other hand, workers' rights must be guaranteed under all circumstances. This and the concrete content of the bill are linked to the question of whether the employees of the sector have the influence to develop laws and laws that affect them. Such rights, we find, are disliked by the government, are not very fond of reconciliations and similar embarrassing things. It is important, and we agree with the trade unions on this, that they not only have a say in special sectoral laws, but not only in the law specifically called railway law, the government has an obligation to negotiate with the trade unions, but also in all the laws governing the individual sectors, even with other things. In the case of railway, for example, the recently discussed passenger transport law. One of the trade unions' demands is that the travel benefits of employees, relatives and pensioners in the sector be returned to this law. In addition, it is stated that in the Passenger Transport Act, the personal scope makes a narrower, unjustified distinction between passenger and other workers performing rail services. Therefore, there is a risk that any person who carries out a public rail service, but not a passenger transport, will be deprived of benefits. [[18.10]] In this case, the rights of many workers for decades and in good faith would be violated. Similarly, it is not acceptable to withdraw the start of pensioners from successor organisations. Many worked for decades at the MÁV. It is unfair to withdraw the legitimate advantages that this entails. This is accompanied by the already mentioned aspect that lacks the obligation to negotiate when the salad law is amended. However, on the part of the LMP, we believe that, if the obligation to negotiate is fixed in the case of the Passenger Transport Act, it is more logical to address this issue in an integrated framework. And, as I said in the debate on the previous bill, everything is moving towards the introduction of a common tariff system, common tickets and leases for each sector, and it follows that those working in each sector, as well as their pensioners and relatives, will benefit from the whole system, not just on their own. This includes, for example, all those working on the railway and, even indirectly, contributing to the maintenance of passenger services, such as railway operators. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-11-152	Thank you very much. Welcome. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. I'll ask you if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The general debate is hereby closed. I will ask Mr. Secretary of State, Mr.László Tasó, if he wishes to respond to what has been said. It says yes. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2015-06-11-153	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would definitely like to respond to some things. Erzsébet Schmuck is heading back to the pulpit, but he will hear it in the meantime. So what is very important is that we agree, this is also the case with Mr Józsa and Mr Ander Balázs. So we negotiate with the unions every time, as has been said many times today. This is how it was done in the course of this preparation. An important question to be answered is that Mrs Schmuck, Mrs Erzsébet, notary, has raised the need for a km-based toll. I respectfully report that in the case of 3.5 tonnes of vehicles, we are also using km-based tolls in the current period, and we do not want to change this in any other way. The speakers mentioned the fate of the small railway on several occasions, and fear us for the small railway or sidelines, I felt. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that it is precisely us, the Fidesz-KDNP faction, who have been consistently, in the present, in the past and in the future, we will stand by the sidelines, we will stand by the Hungarian railway, and we cannot be said to have proved otherwise by any of our provisions or laws in the past. It should be about MÁV Cargo, because Hungary was a unit that basically defined the conditions, determined the ratio of freight traffic, and determined the position of MÁV. We gave up an activity that led to a serious income, and then the governors of that time resigned. The replacement of this, I believe, is difficult in the short term. Nevertheless, as has been said earlier, our railway companies are striving to recover as much of the cargo section as possible. It was well said and understood by all the speakers that the greater part of the bill was a mandatory practice, the transposition of the European Union directives, and we started, trying to link the foundations of a railway law to the recast, but we stopped with it. We believe that we need to be so careful about the railway law that we give it more time. We plan not to stop the negotiation and stop the professional discourse, we continue the discussions, we begin the creation of a serious, comprehensive railway law. In doing so, it will be possible to return to all open questions again. This will take place in the next period. I hope that you will continue to participate so actively. I would like to mention a few things, such as the tram-train system that has been mentioned several times. That's right. I would like to look between Szeged-Hódmezővásárhely and examine how we can apply this new system. The preparation of this proposal is also ongoing. The only thing about our small trains is that a ten-year concept will be made, which will examine all Hungarian small trains, examine the possibility of linking them to the public transport system and, where attraction development of tourist significance is needed, also integrate it into the concept. Some of the little things that definitely deserve to be answered are, among other things, the route book. Congressman Józsa has indicated that he has concerns about this. We would like to make sure that we are talking about an EU regulation, which must also be prepared right now, that MÁV and GYSEV are doing this work right now. In his speech, Mr Józsa had some things that were not really understood, because there is a chapter that we have not opened. So there were more things that he mentioned, which, by the way, wasn't opened now. [[Dr. István Józsa: That's just it!]] For example, the chapter on driver rest has not been opened, among other things, nor has the section on railway safety certificate been opened. So these two things you mentioned were not opened, so this question is not going to be put on the table. Other railway vehicles were mentioned by several people, and also by Mr Ander Balázs. That's right. Vehicles of a museal nature are steam locomotives, similar values that we take care of. These guys don't actually have active licenses, but we also wanted to regulate their movements. We await the congressman's suggestion. We understand that the 13th. § 3 would like to be deleted. We will examine it, and we will respond to it soon. We were pleased that there were more supporting contributions on non-rail rail fixed track systems, although there was less support from the MSZP, but I am sure that they will consider it at the end. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Dear Presents, There were a lot of questions, to which the speakers also answered each other, including my fellow Member in the introduction. With all due respect, I thank you all for your active contributions and your contributions. There's nothing we don't agree on. Our aim is, in any case, to create solutions that do not hinder railway development in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-11-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendments were made by 16:00 today. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. I would like to inform you that no one has applied for a post-scheduled address. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. I wish you all a good day. Goodbye. [[Meeting ended at 6:18 p.m.]]
