u2015-10-07-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down. On the table placed in the middle of the room, photos and flowers remind me of Árpád Göncz.]] Dear Parliament, The 6th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that Erzsébet Schmuck and László Föld will be attending the meeting to help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, The 2013 CCXXX on Hungary's central budget for 2014 follows. T/5954. Legislative bill No 1 - submitted by the Government and T/5954/1 on the control of the implementation of Hungary's central budget for 2014 Joint general debate on the report, submitted by the State Audit Office, until closure. Dear Parliament, I declare that the proposals will be discussed as an EU and national agenda item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the bill, and I also welcome President László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-10-07-1	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I respectfully welcome the President of the State Audit Office. From 2010 onwards, the government has chosen a different economic policy. Based on the facts, we can conclude that this economic policy is successful. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: Oh, thank God.]] The Hungarian economy was clearly on a growing path in 2014 and the pace of growth accelerated beyond expectations. The rise in economic growth, favourable macroeconomic developments and the conscious and consistent economic recovery measures taken by the government have enabled the achievement of the economic and budgetary policy objectives set. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, at the end of September, after the parliamentary submission of the 2014 closing bill, the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, together with the Hungarian National Bank and the Ministry of National Economy, prepared a so-called EDP report on the balance and debt of the government sector. On the basis of this report, macroeconomic and general government parameters have also changed. I would like to present the new figures in my Expos. Dear House, Hungary showed outstanding economic performance in 2014. The growth rate of gross domestic product increased to 3.7 percent. This is the third country in the European Union and the first country in the Visegrád countries. As a result of this high growth, economic performance has reached its pre-crisis level. From 2013 onwards, the Hungarian economy has moved towards a more uniform and balanced growth structure. The facts show that this positive trend has now become permanent and sustainable in the long term. It is important to stress that the growth of well above 3 per cent has been achieved while the balance indicators have also developed positively, i.e. growth has not come from indebtedness. The balance of payments increased last year and the general government deficit remained significantly below 3 per cent. At the same time as the balance has improved, growth has increased. While exports typically contributed the most to the Hungarian GDP change until 2013, the role of investment and consumption has now become decisive. Investments increased by 14 percent in 2014 at a record rate, supported by both government and private development. This was due, inter alia, to the EU funds, the declining return environment, programmes to support SME financing and the strong activity of the corporate sector. The record expansion of investments is positive, since recovery of production and service capacities is conducive not only to short-term, but also to long-term economic growth. Retail consumption increased by 1.8 percent in 2014. The recovery in consumption has been supported by the improved income situation of the population, which is linked to the increasing number of people who have access to work, wages are increasing, inflation is low and the conditions for access to credit have improved due to declining interest rates. Growth was balanced also in terms of the production side of GDP, as both the production and service sectors contributed to the expansion in 2014. Following a good harvest in 2013, agricultural production showed a 14 percent increase in the last year. Due to the recovery of external demand and vehicle production capacities, the performance of the manufacturing industry has gradually accelerated. Construction has also grown dynamically. With regard to labour market developments, an increase in employment started in the summer of 2010. Employment at the national economy level has increased extremely by 208 thousand compared to 2013, while the employment rate of 61.8 percent has been the most favourable in the past 16 years. An international comparison shows a positive picture compared to the 2008 level. The number of people employed in Hungary has increased to the third largest extent in the EU Member States, and in terms of the number of people active, the largest increase has been made in Hungary from the Visegrád countries. The willingness to work has been encouraged by government measures such as tightening transfers to the unemployed, changing the conditions for retirement and disability. Employment has already been increased to a greater extent in 2014 by the positive developments in the competitive sector, the job protection action has supported employers in the employment of the most disadvantaged groups, and changes to the Labour Code have helped to move towards flexible forms of employment. [[9.10]] Average gross and net earnings increased by 3 percent across the national economy, while real wages increased by 3.2 percent due to a moderate rise in consumer prices. Dear Parliament, Dear Lords of the President, In 2014, the external balance was also positive. The current account shows a surplus. It is a positive result that Hungarian foreign trade has shown dynamic growth, and export performance has increased significantly again. In particular, the surplus of exports from new automotive capacities in the trade balance resulted in a significant increase. In addition, the improvement in the capital balance is explained by the rise in support for economic and infrastructure development received from the European Union. Thanks to these processes, the country's net external financing capacity developed positively and exceeded 6 percent of GDP. In 2014, the dynamics of price changes were reversed, with an average price decrease of 0.2 per cent recorded in Hungary, which is due to several factors. On the one hand, the reduction in global oil and food prices and the low foreign inflation environment have slowed down price growth and, on the other hand, the introduction of measures to reduce costs in several stages has greatly contributed to the development of a low inflation environment. Overall, in the light of macroeconomic developments and facts, it can be concluded that the sectors of the Hungarian economy have increased, that growth has already taken a healthier, more sustainable path in 2013 and that, as a result, the economy has gained further momentum during 2014. Ladies and gentlemen, The government was also responsible for farming in 2014. As part of this, one year after the conclusion of the excessive deficit procedure against our country, the government took precautionary measures to strengthen the confidence of money market investors. In this context, in order to ensure deficit levels and debt losses, it introduced measures aimed at improving the general government balance, which did not affect the population, but were intended to reduce the State's operating expenditure. They were withdrawn during the second half of the year. Moreover, additional additional expenditure may have taken place after economic growth has taken place, as a result of which road maintenance expenditure could increase, the development needed to introduce an electronic road traffic control system, and the capital increase of Eximbank could have taken place in order to support exports. The positive development of the deficit target also made it possible to use a significant part of the National Defence Fund. The general government deficit was achieved at HUF 713.5 billion, which is 2.2 per cent of GDP, compared to HUF 1121.5 billion of modified legal appropriations. In particular, the lack of a central subsystem was better achieved than the statutory HUF 1151.5 billion allocation, to HUF 803 billion. The 2014 cash flow surplus of the local government subsystem amounted to HUF 89,5 billion. This is due to disciplined management, spending cuts, municipal debt consolidation, stricter government control of borrowing and the restructuring and coordination of the municipal task and financing system in 2013. The lack of the so-called government sector in line with the EU methodology has also been lower than the target, 2.5 per cent of GDP rather than 2.9 per cent of GDP, and 76,2 per cent of the debt ratio calculated according to the same methodology has been reduced from 76,8 per cent in the previous year. So these are the latest figures. Dear House, EU funds and related national contributions have played a significant role in the further development and renewal of government priority areas such as health, education, economic development, employment and transport. In the last year, approximately HUF 2224 billion of funding was paid, of which HUF 1669 billion came from various EU funds. The aid thus exceeded the 2013 level by HUF 250 billion. The high consumption does not lead to a loss of resources for EU programmes. In 2014, the efficient and rapid use of resources for the new 2014-2020 programming period made it necessary to transform the domestic institutional system. Thanks to the work of managing authorities and intermediate bodies integrated in ministries, the first calls for proposals were launched during the year. The additional tasks due to the overlap of the two programming periods, which have been more challenging than ever, have been successfully fulfilled by the domestic institutional system. The implementation and completion of projects for the 2007-2013 programming period remains a priority. Our aim is to draw all available resources by 31 December 2015. As in previous years, the 2014 EU budget balance sheet has once again shown a significant amount of activity. Hungary's net position balance is HUF 1635 billion, which is the same in scale as last year. [[9.20]] Dear Parliament, Let me also talk about the management of the main parts of public finances. The 2014 expenditure of programmes, tasks and grants on certain items managed by central budgetary bodies and chapters was completed at HUF 7480.4 billion, corresponding to 85.3 percent of the statutory appropriations. For full-time and part-time employees, they spent 1472.9 billion forints on regular personal benefits, 1.7 percent more than the initial allocation. In this context, the average annual number of employees, excluding those employed by the public, increased by 1.8 per cent compared to the previous year. Dear Parliament, In 2014, the funding of municipalities continued in a task-based support scheme introduced at the same time as the major restructuring of the tasks they performed in 2013. As with all new systems, the restructuring of the funding structure of the municipalities also required fine-tuning and adjustment. As a result, additional support for structural settlement based on local authorities' needs and feedback was already included in the basic funding in 2014. Further changes have been made to public education, to support the social, cultural and administrative sectors, following the planning of the task. In 2014, local authorities managed a total of HUF 2735.2 billion in expenditure and HUF 3123 billion in revenue. The budget balance of this sub-scheme of public finances, including debt consolidation aid, was reached at HUF 89,5 billion. While in 2013 the municipal debt consolidation provided HUF 36.3 billion, in 2014 the municipalities received state aid of HUF 68.8 billion in the last round of debt reduction, to close it. Apart from the one-off revenue-enhancing effect of debt consolidation, a positive HUF 20.8 billion was created in the municipal sub-scheme in 2014, which remains evidence that municipalities manage their revenues and expenses effectively. The debt of local governments was almost insignificant by the end of 2014 thanks to the completed debt consolidation, to HUF 31.2 billion, which is about 6.8 percent of the previous year. In conclusion, the practical experience made it possible to take more account of the situation of the municipalities, their specific characteristics and their economic potential in 2014 than the development of the aid. Dear Parliament, I would like to mention the implementation of the 2014 budget of the two financial funds for social security. The closure balance of the budget of the Pension Insurance Fund for 2014 included a surplus of HUF 7.5 billion. The overachievement of revenues was essentially driven by positive developments in economic growth and additional revenue from employment expansion. Out of the 27 percent social contribution tax split between the two funds of social security, the share of the Pension Insurance Fund changed from 100 percent in 2014 to 96.3% in the previous year. Despite this amendment, however, the incomes of the Pension Insurance Fund increased due to the sustained growth in the economy. The largest item of expenditure was retirement expenses, which totaled HUF 2915 billion. In particular, I would like to highlight the popularity of pension rights available for women in the event of 40 years of legal acquisition, to which the Pension Insurance Fund spent HUF 164 billion in 2014. In 2014, retirement expenses included the effect of a 2.4 per cent increase in pension for 2 million 207 thousand people, resulting in a 3 per cent increase in the purchasing power of pensions, taking into account the negative 0.6 per cent inflation for the pensioner consumer basket. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The budget of the Health Insurance Fund for 2014 was planned with a balance between revenue and expenditure. This was a minimum deviation from the performance. The budget balance of the fund amounts to HUF 0.4 billion. Within the revenues of the Health Insurance Fund, contributions and contributions generated HUF 896,9 billion in contributions, which became much higher than planned. The revenue surplus was a decisive reason for the increase in gross wages and earnings higher than expected. The other group of revenues were budget contributions amounting to HUF 896.4 billion. The performance was reduced by HUF 25.4 billion compared to the appropriations, given that the reimbursement of the coverage of disability rehabilitation benefits and the balance of the Fund's budget required less funds to be taken over. The total expenditure of the Health Insurance Fund in 2014 amounted to HUF 1907.2 billion, of which more than 29 percent, HUF 559.1 billion were used to pay cash benefits, more than 69 percent and HUF 1325.5 billion were used to finance benefits in kind. For benefits in kind, it is outstanding that the cost of curative-preventive care was HUF 13.8 billion more than planned. In particular, as a result of the government's action, healthcare has gained HUF 10 billion in additional resources by providing the funds needed for the purchase of detailed medicines and tools. In order to cover the development needs in the field of basic care, it allowed HUF 10 billion available under the initial allocation, including the introduction of additional remuneration for workers in the financing of general medical care and additional remuneration for services providing basic dental care in the disadvantaged settlement. In addition, the amount that could be used to finance the provision of general medical and protective care has increased further. Rescue and patient transport have improved their operational status. The government also took action to allocate HUF 11,8 billion of operating aid to the resources available for the Fund's provisions in order to partially reduce the overdue debt of the healthcare institutions. Dear Parliament, Finally, I would like to say a few words about the findings of the State Audit Office on the accounts. In line with the practice of previous years, the SAO has done a great deal of work in monitoring the bill on the implementation of the 2014 budget, which I would like to thank you for. [[9.30]] In its report, the Court found, inter alia, that the discharge bill contained the elements of the statutory content and that its structure was in line with the provisions of the Public Finance Act. The data contained in the 2014 discharge bill are supported by the data of the Treasury accounts. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the positive findings made above, I would ask you to discuss and accept the closing bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-10-07-2	Thank you very much to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. I give the floor to Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, rapporteur of the report, in a 40-minute time frame. You have the floor, Mr. President.
u2015-10-07-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In accordance with the legal obligation of the State Audit Office, the bill implementing Hungary's central budget for 2014 was audited, and our report was published on 31 August in accordance with the statutory obligations. We have assessed the reliability of the legislative closing act and whether the accounts and accounts underlying the bill do not contain any material errors affecting its reliability. We also checked whether the implementation of the Finance Act was legal and regular and that the audited organisations were properly managed with public funds. At the same time, we have checked the implementation of the public debt requirements of the Fundamental Law and the Stability Act. It was found that the implementation of the 2014 central budget was in line with the legal requirements, that the discharge bill was well-founded, that the data contained therein were reliable, and that they were supported by the data of the treasury accounts. The implementation of the general government's central sub-scheme's statutory appropriations for 2014, deficit and government debt developments were in line with the provisions of the Fundamental Law, the Act on the Economic Stability of Hungary and the Public Finance Act. The draft closing act contains the content required by law, and its structure is in line with the legal requirements. At the same time as our report, we have carried out an analysis of the budgetary processes of the previous year, including the macroeconomic context of the implementation of the 2014 budget, on a special request from Parliament for the third time. The State Audit Office of Hungary has set itself as a strategic objective to develop a different approach, content and procedure to ensure a more effective and effective control of the accounts and to continue to support Parliament's work in making an informed decision. The State Audit Office renewed and published on its website a new methodology for checking the accounts in January 2015 with this strategic objective. The framework for drawing up the document was defined by two factors. On the one hand, since the adoption of previous methodologies, the structure of public finances has changed and, on 1 January 2014, new budgetary accounting rules have entered into force under which the accounting of public finances consists of budgetary accounting and financial accounting. On the other hand, the renewal of the methodology of the State Audit Office also played a role in the context of the renewal of international auditing professional standards. In October 2013, INTOSAI, the international organisation of the main audit institutions, adopted new audit principles, which also led to the renewal of the principles and procedures to be followed throughout the world when checking the accounts. The SAO has established the methodology for checking the closure accounts so that it can give an informed opinion on the implementation of the budget as a whole on the basis of the audit procedures used. The audit provides a comprehensive and objective picture of the reliability of the data contained in the 2014 discharge bill. The audit covered the total expenditure and revenue of the central subsystem, including five main areas: central management appropriations, financial funds for social security, allocated public funds, appropriations for chapter management, including European Union grants, and central budget institutions. In these five control areas, the reliability of the data contained in the accounts of the budget, such as the budgetary reports and the residual statements, has been verified. In addition, the regularity of the compilation of financial accounts, i.e. the balance sheet and the profit and loss account, has been certified in the institutions required to report to Parliament and in the social security funds. As a result of the new methodology, for the first time, the Court's audit of the closure accounts covered 100% of the expenditure and revenue of the central subsystem. The State Audit Office has used statistical methods to verify the accounts and has acted in accordance with its rules. Accordingly, it drew its findings on the basis of the verified items for the entire population. During the statistical sampling, the materiality threshold was set by the State Audit Office in the same year as before, as a percentage of the total expenditure and revenue of the central budget. The State Audit Office also set a further specific materiality threshold for each sub-area, also as a percentage of the total expenditure and revenue of each sub-area. The State Audit Office assessed the audit of the reliability of revenue and expenditure, the regularity of management and the use of appropriations and its consistency with the rules on budgetary management in all areas of control with the new methodology. During the audit, the Court compared performance data to the statutory amended appropriations set out in the discharge bill. Dear Parliament, In 2014, the revenues of the central sub-scheme were achieved by HUF 17 458,4 billion on the basis of the bill, to HUF 18 261.4 billion, resulting in a deficit of HUF 30.3 per cent and HUF 348.5 billion below the deficit target of HUF 803 billion. Within the central sub-sector of public finances, the central budget closed last year with a deficit of HUF 816,6 billion, the social security funds with HUF 8 billion, and the allocated public funds with HUF 5.6 billion of suffiti on the basis of the submitted bill. Our audit found that the total amount of revenue and expenditure carried out by the central budget does not contain any material error, the data on revenue and expenditure are reliable. In 2014, reporting on public finance management is regular. The deficit of the government sector in line with the EU methodology for 2014 was significantly more favourable than the anticipated 2.9 percent of GDP. The government debt ratio decreased from 76,6 per cent in 2013 to 74,1 per cent in 2014, i.e. by 2,5 percentage points. The macro-track, which is the basis for the 2014 budget planning, was created in 2014, assuming a 2 per cent increase in GDP - in a pessimistic way. [[9.40]] On the other hand, the growth of the Hungarian economy started in the second half of 2013, and almost all sectors contributed to the 3,6 percent increase in GDP in 2014. During the discharge of accounts, the State Audit Office found the following in each audit area. The budget's central management appropriations and government-related revenue and expenditure appropriations have been allocated, and overall the audit has been considered to be reliable. 88.9 percent of the revenues of centralised appropriations were combined between consumption-related taxes, public contributions and payments made by economic operators, for which no reliability error was detected when checking, and therefore the revenue data are reliable. 4 per cent of the revenue from centralised appropriations is debt-related revenue, while 25,4 per cent of the expenditure on centralised appropriations is interest expenditure on debt-related services, and this varies substantially within this structure of the European Union and Visegrád countries, raising this amount in particular. The audit did not reveal any reliability errors in revenue and expenditure, so the revenue and expenditure data are reliable. The total value of the reliability errors on the expenditure side has not reached the materiality level and the expenditure data are therefore reliable. Our audit revealed a lack of reliability in the area of benefits and grants under the appropriations of the National Family and Social Policy Fund. In several cases, the Hungarian Treasury did not have a decision to support the payment of the benefits, the necessary advice or the application for a family allowance. Since the performance data on benefits and grants contain a material error, the expenditure declared is considered unreliable. With regard to the State's wealth and the National Land Fund, we discovered a reliability error in revenues, the total value of which, however, did not reach the materiality level, so that the revenue and expenditure accounted for are reliable. The training of reserves of centralised appropriations, such as reserve for extraordinary government measures, the National Defence Fund and provisions, was in line with legal requirements. Legal requirements have been complied with in the use of the National Defence Fund and provisions. Central reserves fulfilled their role, and their use was 96 percent, with a total of 232.8 billion forints. They therefore fulfilled the intended objectives. The Budgetary Act, among the central reserves, set the size of the provision at HUF 76.2 billion, specifying the purpose of the use. Accordingly, HUF 70.9 billion of these provisions were used for additional staff allowances for persons employed in budgetary bodies and public institutions of churches and for employers' contributions and social contributions taxes. In respect of the revenue and expenditure of the Pension Insurance Fund and in the revenues of the Health Insurance Fund, no reliability errors have been identified. The audit revealed a lack of reliability in the operational expenditure of the Health Insurance Fund in the case of contracts for contracts for contracts for external personnel. In some cases, the contract of assignment did not include the way in which the financial performance was carried out, the conditions and the time limit for payment. On the basis of the errors found, the total value of all reliability errors found was below the materiality level and, consequently, expenditure data are reliable. The compilation of the financial accounting parts of the Social Security Funds was in line with the legal requirements and were therefore considered appropriate. The revenue and expenditure of the allocated public funds in 2014 were also considered reliable. The audit revealed a lack of reliability in the expenditure of the Central Nuclear Financial Fund. On the basis of the errors detected, the total value of the reliability errors that occurred overall was below the materiality level. The audit revealed conformity errors in the expenditure of the National Employment Fund, the National Cultural Fund, the Central Nuclear Financial Fund and the Research and Technology Innovation Fund, which were linked to the exercise of management powers. The combined edition of the central subsystem was exceeded by HUF 1125 billion compared to the statutory adjustment. Of this, the overachievement of budget expenditure of HUF 932.7 billion was mainly due to the use of institutional remains and additional revenues. Expenditure related to programmes financed by the Structural Funds has mainly contributed to the overachievement of expenditure under the Union programmes. Interest expenditure and public property related expenditure exceeded the statutory adjusted appropriations, the latter being mainly the National Asset Management Ltd. Buying real estate, Főgáz Zrt. shares and Magyar Külkereskedelmi Bank Zrt. it was related to the purchase of all of its shares. The EU budget's revenues and subsidies amounted to HUF 2224 billion, of which the EU's revenues amounted to HUF 1668.9 billion, the Hungarian subsidies amounted to HUF 528.2 billion, and the sum of the claims against the beneficiaries amounted to HUF 26.8 billion. 85.7 per cent of the Union's expenditure has been allocated to projects financed by the so-called national strategic reference framework for the 2007-2013 programming period. The audit did not reveal a reliability error in the payment of EU grants and therefore the expenditure figures made are reliable. The overall use of appropriations managed by the chapter was regular and the revenue and expenditure performance data of the appropriations are reliable. The Court's audit found the revenue and expenditure of the budgetary bodies falling within the central subsystem of the general government to be reliable. We carried out on-the-spot checks at 108 of the budgetary bodies in the central sub-sector of public finances. In particular, the institutions of the constitutional chapters, the institutions of the central subsystem and the institutions required to report to the Parliament were also assessed by separate groups. The institutions of the constitutional chapters and the institutions of the central sub-scheme have overall complied with the provisions of their legislation and their own regulations in the performance of their revenue and expenditure appropriations, and the revenue and expenditure accounted for have overall been considered to be reliable. The eight institutions required to report to Parliament have complied with the provisions of the legislation and their internal rules, with the exception of two organisations, in the performance of the revenue and expenditure appropriations. The extent of the reliability errors found in a single institution, the Public Procurement Authority, exceeded the materiality level, so that the Authority's expenditure and revenue data were considered unreliable. The authority accounted for the amount of the judicial deposit as final expenditure, which did not comply with the legal requirements. The error detected by the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information did not affect the reliability of the total revenue and expenditure of the report. We have verified the expenditure and revenue performance data of central budgetary bodies that they are reliable. During the discharge check, we identified as the most typical reliability error that the audit organisations had not conducted a procurement procedure or in many cases violated the requirements of the Accounting Act and the new Government Decree on the accounting of public finances. The accounting documents on which the accounts were based were missing, they were not fully equipped, accounting accounts and records were incomplete. The most typical of the conformity errors were irregularities related to the exercise of management powers, but in many cases we have encountered the fact that the inspectors prepared their internal rules, accounts and accounts after the deadline. [[9.50]] In some cases, the internal regulations required by the legislation have not been drawn up at all. One of the key areas of compliance monitoring is the monitoring of the development of a so-called control environment in the controlled areas in 2014, as the appropriate control environment is a fundamental condition for regular operation. The lack of it carries corruption risks. In 2014, we assessed the adequacy of the control environment with 126 institutions: 64 organisations are suitable, 45 organisations are partially suitable and 17 organisations are not qualified. In monitoring the development of the control environment, we have repeatedly faced the fact that the changes to the accounting rules under the new Government Decree on the accounting of public finances were not or were only made late. There has been a lack or lack of internal regulatory tools, and in some cases a division of labour and responsibility between autonomous institutions and the budgetary body performing their management activities, which is an essential condition for accountability. Dear House, On the basis of the shortcomings identified, it was found that the control environment was not adequately developed at the Research and Technology Innovation Fund, the 7 courts and 9 other institutions. During this year's closure check, we have also assessed the integrity approach among the audited. It was a risk mitigation control factor that, over the last three years, nearly the total number of audited organisations had modified their statutes in line with administrative reforms - correctly. More than half of the organisations made the declaration mandatory for employees' economic or other interests relevant to their activities. 2014 was the year for the introduction of profit and loss accounting in public finances. We are convinced that, despite the difficulties associated with the transition from cash-based budgetary accounting to profit-based accounting, the application of the new accounting principles contributes to a more accurate accounting, allowing the budget bodies to keep operational accounts. And here we must note that Hungary has also taken a very complex, complex technical catch-up step with this transition, in line with the European Union's overall accounting development directions. Dear House, As I mentioned at the beginning of my expo, in parallel with our closing audit, we also carried out an analysis of the macroeconomic context of the budgetary processes for 2014, thus fulfilling the SAO's task as defined in the SAO's laws to support good governance with analyses and studies in its responsibilities, as well as the work of the Fiscal Council, which contributes to ensuring accountability widely in Hungary. Our study seeks the answer - not with the need for completeness, of course - to what economic factors shaped the revenue development, to what economic and social changes the budget expenditure has brought, and to what context the budget balance has become more favourable than planned. And, of course, how to ensure sustainability on this basis. In order to demonstrate the economic and social context, the analysis does not limit itself to the data of a single year, but we have also tried to draw attention to trends in the medium term. The study was carried out using the tools of economic analysis. In the last year, the Hungarian economy has achieved two performances that merit attention. One is economic growth far above the EU average and the other is the basis for the sustainability of development. In 2014, the Hungarian GDP growth of 3.6 percent was the second fastest following Ireland. Of the Visegrád countries, our country has achieved the best growth result. By doing so, Hungarian GDP reached its pre-crisis level, i.e. in 2008, and brought us closer to the EU's average level of development. The rapid growth in the last year has helped to increase the volume of exports by about 3 percentage points above the planned 5.8 per cent, after all by 8.7 per cent. Despite an increase in imports by more than 10%, the external trade balance generated a surplus of 7.4 per cent of GDP and the external financing capacity remained high, with 8.3 per cent of national income in 2014, one of the highest in the EU comparison. In 2014, the structure of economic growth became more balanced. While net exports were previously the main factor for economic growth, growth in internal demand in 2014 resulted in rapid growth. A record increase of 11,7 per cent of gross fixed capital formation is outstanding, resulting in an increase in gross fixed capital formation of 2.6 percentage points in GDP growth in 2014. This increase, after Malta, was the second fastest among the countries that joined the European Union in 2004. The increase in household consumption of 1.7 percent was based on the improved income situation of the population, given the increase in wages and pensions, while inflation was low. The financial situation of households has been significantly facilitated by the retroactive adjustment of the unfair excess burden on residential loans, as well as by the forinting of foreign exchange loans. By doing so, the population concerned has been freed from the exchange rate risk associated with foreign exchange loans. A more balanced economy is also shown by the fact that all the productive sectors have contributed to GDP growth and that both companies, households and public finances have benefited from the extra income generated, so this growth has spread across society. It is of paramount importance for the national economy that the balance of EU transfers accounted for in 2014 was EUR 6 billion. That's more than last year. Hungary received a net EU resource of EUR 28.9 billion by 2014 as a result of EU membership, and nearly 70 percent of it was drawn over the period 2010-2014. The financing of the municipal sub-scheme was consolidated in 2014. The structure of budget expenditure also changed in the municipal sub-scheme by reducing the cost of welfare functions in proportion and increasing the cost of economic functions and the cost of material and accumulation of public functions. The additional cash flow revenue of the municipalities' budget for 2014 is more favourable than under the 2014 statutory allocation. In 2014, local authorities managed with HUF 2685.1 billion without a loan source and with loans of some HUF 3141,3 billion, which was 10,7 percent higher than the 2013 performance. The amount of municipal expenditure was 111 percent higher than the amount of expenditure in 2013. In 2014, the municipalities were financed under the so-called task-based aid scheme introduced from 2013 and adapted to the changed tasks of the local government. The general government deficit, which is lower than planned, had a positive impact on the development of public debt. Despite this, the gross HUF and foreign exchange debt of the central budget increased by HUF 1882.5 billion in 2014, partly due to government debt and partly due to corporate debt. However, the former did not increase the debt of the government sector. In addition to the high foreign trade openness typical of the Hungarian economy, the improved exchange rate contributed to the creation of an export surplus of HUF 2363 billion in the foreign trade balance, which amounts to 7.4 percent of GDP. [[10.00]] The new feature of GDP growth is that the role of internal demand factors has become decisive on the consumption side, and, of course, the growing domestic demand has also increased imports. On the production side, the main contributors to GDP change were the production sectors, where a stable structure was also developed. Among the main sectors, economic growth was supported by industry 1.3, construction 0.4, agriculture 0.3, services 1.1 percentage points and product taxes 0.5 percentage points. Analysis of GDP change on the income side, i.e. on the side of capital and work as production factors, shows that the labour share increased more dynamically in 2014. Both the size of gross wages and the number of employees have increased significantly, to which the competitive sphere has also made a significant contribution. Investments increased by 14 per cent and as a result contributed 2.3 percentage points to the 3.6 per cent economic growth, i.e. two thirds. As a result of the favourable processes, Hungary's GDP-proportional investment rate reached 21,3%, exceeding the average of both the European Union and the Visegrad countries. In 2014, retail consumption increased by 2.7 percent in real terms and contributed 1.4 percentage points to GDP growth, based on preliminary interim data from the 2014 household budget and living conditions survey. The increase in consumption has been made possible by a marked improvement in the income situation of the population. In 2014, household consumption expenditure finally increased by 1.7 percent, thanks to employment, net earnings and favourable pension developments. Employment increased by 208 thousand compared to the previous year, net earnings increased by 3 percent, which, in addition to the negative 0.2 percent index of consumer prices, was ultimately a 3.2 percent increase in real wages, while the amount of pension rose by 2.4 percent, which, in addition to stagnating prices, also meant a rise in real pensions. In 2014, the savings rate continued to be high due to the large role of the population in the decision-making process in reducing accumulated debt, saving caution and slow improvement of bank lending conditions. Household financial assets amounted to HUF 37 000 billion at the end of 2014 and were 8.1 percent higher than a year earlier. Household debt declined gradually and household loans decreased by HUF 94 billion in the fourth quarter of 2014. After an increase of 1.7 percent in employment in 2013, the number of employees exceeded 4.1 million as a result of the outstanding 5,4 percent increase in 2014. The main role in growth was the competition sphere. As a result of employment growth, the unemployment rate decreased from 10.2 percent in 2013 to 7.8 percent, thus reducing Hungary's rate to significantly lower than the EU average of 10.2 percent last year. In 2014, consumer prices decreased by 0.2 per cent on average, as I indicated, after an increase of 1.7 per cent in 2013. Among the reasons for this can be the low inflation environment, the fall in food prices resulting from good agricultural production and the impact of government regulation. A favourable macro-owner in 2014 In particular, the steps taken in the series of measures to facilitate the implementation of gi and budgetary processes have played an important role: the growth credit programme, the final settlement of retail foreign exchange loans, the job protection action plan, the Start Work Programme and the 2014 budget, i.e. the active action of individual public actors. In two phases of the growth credit programme for economic recovery, some 23 thousand companies had the opportunity to finance it, amounting to nearly HUF 1430 billion. As of 2011, the government has sought to improve the situation of foreign exchange taxpayers through a series of measures, with the introduction of an exchange rate barrier, the possibility of end-payment, the setting up of a National Asset Manager. Most of these led to a 45 percent reduction in the stock of foreign exchange loans by the end of 2014 and then the recovery of unfairly charged amounts on the basis of the laws adopted following the Curia's decision, which imposed a net burden on banks of around HUF 600-700 billion and reduced the total debt of Hungarian families by HUF 1000 billion. As a result of the Forinting Act, private individuals' mortgage-backed foreign exchange loans amounted to HUF 3600 billion. Thus, the population was finally freed from the main uncertainty factor, the risk of unpredictable exchange rate fluctuations, and the forinting of foreign exchange loans now protects Hungarian families from increasing their burden. Foreign currency loans accounted for 50 percent of household loans in 2014, and after the forinting they were below 10 percent. In the framework of the Action Plan on the Protection of Jobs, the preservation of jobs is encouraged not primarily by subsidies, but by tax and contribution reductions. As a result of these measures, more than HUF 97 billion was left to employers in 2013 in the year of departure. This figure was close to HUF 125 billion in 2014. Start work programmes for disadvantaged small regions, national public employment programmes, longer-term public employment programmes and some higher investment costs and value-creating schemes have been launched from the source available to the Start Work Programme. In 2014 the start-up work programme was actually paid for HUF 225.5 billion. On the basis of the favourable macroeconomic and budgetary developments that emerged in 2014, the government revised the fiscal path established in April 2014 and decided to achieve a lower deficit target. In order to facilitate the implementation of the 2014 budget, the government's corrective action was characterised by tightening up in the first half of the year, and the positive growth results enabled budget expenditure to be increased in the second half. With regard to the redistribution rate in 2014, it is worth noting that its value is 2 percentage points higher than the average of 28 countries in the European Union in 2014, i.e. 48,1 percent, and 1.1 percentage points higher than the euro zone. Thus, Hungary belongs to the intermediate group of countries in this respect, as opposed to countries with a high redistribution rate. The 2014 closure report shows that in 2014 the fiscal and fiscal revenues of the central budget increased by 7.8 percent. The increase was due to an increase of 13.3 per cent, i.e. the highest proportion, 6.9 per cent in consumption taxes, and 6 per cent in public contributions. The increase in the revenue of the central budget in 2014 of 7.8 percent compared to the previous year is driven by economic growth, increasing employment, increasing consumption and a whitening of the economy. Compared to 2013, there were higher payments, including corporate tax, general sales tax, personal income tax and social contribution tax. On an international level, the Hungarian tax burden is considered to be medium given that it is about 1.5 percentage points below the EU average and that the tax and contribution burden is higher in 11 developed EU countries. However, compared to other Visegrád countries, the tax burden in Hungary is significantly higher. In 2014, an increase in expenditure-to-GDP ratio reduced the budgetary balance by 0.3 percentage points. On the other hand, the increase in expenditure had the positive effect that direct public demand increased by 1.3 percentage points, thus contributing HUF 415 billion to the expansion of domestic demand in the market. [[10.10]] The gross HUF and foreign exchange debt of the central budget increased by HUF 1882.5 billion in 2014. In addition to a reduction in government debt-to-GDP ratio, the debt foreign exchange rate also improved significantly, with net issuance of residential sovereign debt reaching a record level in 2014, contributing to the expansion of financing in the forint. Net sales of interest-bearing treasury bills amounted to HUF 100.9 bn in 2014, and the net sales of residential sovereign debt amounted to HUF 584.9 bn, which was largely HUF 500 bn higher than the sales of 2013. I would like to point out one more figure: in 2014, the average annual exchange rate was reduced by 4 percent compared to the previous year against the euro. Dear Parliament, I am convinced that with the work of the State Audit Office, the development of internal control systems and the centralisation of the integrity approach, it has supported the more transparent and reliable functioning of the audited organisations. By drawing up the report and the analysis, Parliament was able to make a substantial contribution to making an informed decision on the adoption of the discharge bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-07-4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás László, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-07-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, President of the State Audit Office! Ladies and gentlemen, T/5954 on the closure of the 2014 budget ahead. The purpose of the bill is to learn about the budgetary processes that marked the year 2014. There is a legitimate question about Hungary's financial and economic position in 2014. I will mention two marks at the beginning: one is that the budget itself has been cautious, so Parliament has established a budget free of all extremes, and the other is that it has carried on tight farming. In the original law on the central budget, the total revenue was almost HUF 16 000 billion, and the total expenditure was almost HUF 17 000 billion, i.e. a small deficit of less than HUF 1000 billion was found in the original budget. Compared to this, the completion of revenues exceeded the revised appropriations by almost HUF 1500 billion, and the spending was HUF 18 261 billion, so the deficit was almost HUF 350 billion, i.e. 30 percent lower. This is all due to a very tight economic governance. This included a deficit-to-GDP ratio of 2.6 per cent compared to the planned 2.9 per cent. This indicates that the government took its own responsibilities very seriously and managed very closely. Another indicator of the financial and economic situation is that in 2014 the country's GDP grew by 3.6 percent, following Ireland as the second fastest growing economy in Hungary. With this, the Hungarian economy has reached its pre-crisis level, i.e. 2008, and we hope that this will put the crisis behind us permanently. Our growth rate is particularly good if we compare this increase to that of developed countries, where a total increase of 1.3 percent has been measured. It is also worth highlighting the fact that, although there were three elections in 2014, there was no election budget, the deficit target was exceeded and the economy was still able to grow significantly. Let us remember how much budget deficits and debt the economy could grow under socialist governments, often below the EU average. Economists agree that 3.6 percent economic growth is essentially due to three additional factors. The first factor is that the volume of Hungarian exports increased by 8.7 percent above the planned 5.8 percent by about 3 percentage points. The Hungarian foreign trade balance generated a surplus of 7.4 percent of GDP. The second factor is that the number of people employed increased by 5.4 percent in 2014 and by 208 thousand, thus exceeding 4.1 million people. The main role in growth was the competition sphere. The employment rate of 15-64-year-olds increased by 3.7 percentage points in 2014. The increase in the number of employees, the significant increase in real wages, has given households a willingness to consume, as consumption has increased by 1.7 percent. The third factor concerns investments. Here we see a record increase of 11.7 percent, resulting in an increase in gross fixed capital formation of 2.6 percentage points in 2014 which contributed to GDP growth. In the light of the above facts, we can clearly state, as I have already pointed out, that the growth turn has taken place in Hungary, the foundations of which were laid by the government in the previous cycle, when it fixed the budget, repaid the IMF loan, got out of the overdeficit procedure, launched the growth credit programme, the job protection action plan, and led to foreign exchange loans. As a result of a number of measures, the economy was on the way to growth and showed such a good result in 2014. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to highlight another important economic indicator, inflation. It's also called a tax on the poor. Not long ago, a few years ago, we had the highest inflation in the European Union. In 2014, the average price level increased by only 0.2 percent, and this is due to the government's reduction in the cost of electricity, with many other factors, but also to a significant extent. I believe that today every family in Hungary experience the beneficial effects of this, from month to month, who do not have to be afraid that utility service providers will raise their prices at their own convenience. Long-term low inflation is also very important because it is coupled with the low central bank base rate, which stimulates investment volumes and increases consumption willingness. Here I note that public finances saved HUF 55.6 billion in interest expenditure last year. Of course, there were changes that had a significant impact on the revenue and expenditure side in 2014, but they did not, overall, worsen the lack of a central budget, as the deficit of HUF 816,6 billion is much lower than planned. In the main tax categories, such as corporate tax, simplified business tax, special tax on financial entities, general sales tax, financial transaction tax, personal income tax, we have seen that higher amounts have been realised than appropriations. On the other hand, a new tax, the advertising tax, has been introduced. On the expenditure side, municipal tasks and their financing have been transferred to the central sub-scheme of public finances in several areas. In 2014, the debt ratio calculated according to the European Union methodology decreased to 76,9 per cent from 77,3 per cent of the previous year, thus reducing public debt in 2014. [[10.20]] Only eight countries in the EU were able to do this, and the EU 28 countries' public debt-to-GDP ratio increased by 1.3 percentage points at the same time. Not only the level of debt but also its structure developed positively over the year, the foreign exchange debt ratio fell from 42% to less than 40 percent, while the debt was held by a smaller proportion of foreigners than it was a year ago. The interest payable and, indirectly, the level of debt were also mitigated by the continuation of the core interest rate reduction sequence of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank started in 2012. Although credit rating agencies have not yet rated our country, the decline in returns clearly shows the improvement in Hungary's risk assessment. The country's external exposure and vulnerability decreased significantly over the course of last year, as improved developments in household foreign exchange debt have been made thanks to government policy and the Curia's decision. It was decided that in the banks' foreign exchange lending practices the exchange rate gap used and the continuous interest rate adjustments were unfair and that their profit should be reimbursed to customers, so that around HUF 1000 billion was repaid at the beginning of 2015. I can also report positive developments in the growth of state wealth, as public engagement has increased through transactions in the utility and banking sectors. However, these purchases did not worsen the deficit under the EU methodology. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, So when we look at the closing bill before us and we want to draw conclusions from the lines and numbers of this, we can clearly conclude that Hungary was able to produce a fiscal and economic year in 2014, which helped to promote the social policy goal of giving families more room for manoeuvre, creating an opportunity for people to earn income from work. All these social policy objectives have been achieved without the budgetary stability being put at risk, and the government has kept to its strict, consistent fiscal policy. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to ask you to support the adoption of the closing act, because both citizens and the government did a lot in 2014 in order to move society forward so that Hungary could become more livable. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-07-6	Thank you, Congressman. The Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party indicated that two speakers presented the group's position, with a total timeframe of 30 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány.
u2015-10-07-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Dear House, Allow me, in my speech, to group our comments around five aspects. I would like to start by saying that, on the basis of the five aspects, we are our views on the processes, the mirror, which reflects these processes and the consequences of the processes that we have tabled. Firstly, the main feature of the Hungarian budget is that it is opaque. Secondly, the excellent economic results of 2014 were based on one-off positive processes, which are unsustainable in the long term. Third, the 2014 processes did not improve the country's competitiveness, but made it less competitive. Fourthly, the processes of 2014 are fundamentally unfair from a social point of view; and as a result, fifthly, only a narrow circle can benefit from these processes. Dear House, Allow me to explain in more detail these five aspects and our views on the basis of the five aspects. Firstly, the transparency of the functioning of public finances has not improved. International investigations now refer to this. Recently, the budgets and public finances of the European Union and even OECD countries have been looked at according to a general set of standards, according to their transparency and follow-up. The outcome of the investigation is devastating for Hungary, ladies and gentlemen. The Hungarian budget is the most opaque across the EU and almost all over the OECD. Hungary received 49 out of 100 points in terms of budget transparency, which is insufficient. With this, Hungary is at the bottom of the so-called restricted information category. As the analysts found, the lack of transparency in the budget is also a hotbed for corruption, and László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, referred to this as a short clause. Let's be more specific. According to the Budget Act, there are no substantive explanations. The justifications in the newer and newer documents are not updated. Three of the eight types of budgetary documents examined are not even made in Hungary, one of which is very important, the budgetary guidelines, which existed earlier in the previous cycles, and the House was able to argue about this on the basis of the government's presentation. This is completely lacking in the operation of the Hungarian Parliament today. The category of the six-month report is also unknown in Hungary, which would account for the development of budgetary processes. In the documents, according to international findings, there is no functional breakdown of expenditure. And finally, but it is very important to note that the spending of residues, reserves and redeployment is essentially carried out outside the budgetary surveillance system, the government has at its disposal a gigantic home cash register in which it can make its own decisions on a daily basis, if you want, on what it spends these resources in its multibillion-dollar home cash register. Second, the truly great economic indicators for 2014 were largely the result of one-off processes. One of the most important elements is the acceleration of the EU's money payment rate. This peaked in 2014. About HUF 1845 billion of EU funding was paid this election year. This can never happen again, even because of the declining resources for Hungary. This is a one-time and unrepeatable performance, otherwise it has a positive effect undoubtedly. On the one hand, Hungary's ability to draw and spend EU funds in such a gigantic order of magnitude this year would not be a big problem in itself, but it would be a big mistake to set up the performance of the Hungarian economy, perhaps the performance of the government, that would be a big mistake. In 2014, the better weather has also helped economic growth through the results of the agricultural sector compared to previous years. Third, in 2014 the world market prices for oil and gas were virtually halved and the economy was further stimulated, thereby generating more tax revenues. Regrettably, despite all efforts, the price halving of oil and gas on the world market has not resulted in such a drop in prices in the country at all. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, Our third claim is that these processes cannot be maintained in the medium term, and these processes do not improve, but also undermine Hungary's competitiveness. [[10.30]] It is a warning sign that the growth rate is expected to decrease to 3 percent this year, and in 2016 forecasts and analysts suggest that it will slow down to around 2.5 percent. While the government is constantly talking about Hungarian reforms working, we need to establish that, on the basis of international comparisons, there is no sign of the effectiveness of the reforms, and on the contrary, Hungary's competitiveness continues to deteriorate. In the second quarter of 2015 - and this indicates a slowdown - the Czech economy was able to grow by 4.4 percent, the Romanian economy by 3.7 percent and the Slovak economy by 3.1 percent, while Hungary was able to show only 2.4 percent economic growth. As regards the competitiveness rankings referred to above, ladies and gentlemen, Hungary's position in the international competitiveness rankings deteriorates with one or two rankings each year, over the 60th place in each of the years under consideration, the Hungarian competitiveness is in its place in the rankings. This is reflected in other data. In 2014, we paid more taxes than when the government changed in 2010. In fact, we have paid not only more but also various taxes. There were weekly changes in tax rules, and the number of new taxes introduced by Fidesz was close to thirty. This unfavorable process has also been seen in the state redistribution. While total public expenditure in 2010 was slightly less than half of GDP, this ratio continued to deteriorate, to a very precise extent, and already increased by 54 per cent in 2014. This is an accurate indication of the greed of the state, the government, the continuing burden on people, the additional burden on farmers. At the same time, the figures for the operation of the State are not contained at all. While in 2010 the Hungarian State spent about 15.3 percent of GDP directly on its operation, in 2014, this figure was already over 18 percent. When it comes to you, the government spends a lot of money. Dear House, After the previous three aspects, I have to turn to the next, the fourth aspect, and on this basis, unfortunately, we have to conclude that 2014 was characterised by the same unfair processes as the previous years and, unfortunately, the period since then. The entire system of economic policy philosophy, the entire social policy philosophy, is based on a fundamental injustice. This is, in particular, to reduce the burden of those who are in the best position in the country, while constantly increasing the burdens of those who do not belong to these privileged layers. It's a deeply unfair social philosophy. As a result, about 20 percent of people in Hungary benefit, while 80 percent live from day to day. This Hungarian Socialist Party believes that there is a profoundly unfair and fundamental need for change, a 180-degree turn in this concept. In our view, the state should not support those who are doing well, but those who are sinking lower and lower in terms of their financial situation as part of the middle class, and those who are in the worst position in the country should be supported. It's the reverse. And finally, the fifth time. Because of these injustices, a very narrow layer benefits from this governance. This narrow layer has a completely objective segment. Those who benefit from tax policy without any other positive signs, even without government help, whose burdens are substantially reduced by the state, they belong to 20% of the best earners. But unfortunately, there is another element, namely, since 2010 the government - and this was also typical of the 14th year processes - has created a gigantic state machine, and this machine has only one purpose: to fund the Fidesz moonyard. While corruption in Hungary before 2010 was considered to be a violation of the general laws, the majority of the governments of the country simply passed laws that helped them to gain access to the benefits that the government had chosen as a preferential layer after 2010. Not by circumventing the law, they gave new owners tramps, but by changing the laws, and not by circumventing public procurement laws, they made serious money to my friends illegally, but by changing public procurement laws and laws that are in the first place favourable to those whom Fidesz wishes to favour. We're talking close friends, relatives and the Fidesz Moonyard. To mention only recent examples. It is quite amazing that in Hungary, in legal proceedings, serious millions can be made by giving communication advice to a ministry on how to listen actively. For some of the members of the government, our position is to keep their mouths shut for free, but to receive advice for serious millions on how to listen actively and to seem meaningful in the meantime, this is quite amazing. And all of this is not by circumventing the law, but by creating legislation that favours this process. The situation is well characterized by a declaration by one of the eternal winners, who came to the conclusion that if God's purpose for him is to continue to win the tenders, what he can do about God's will. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in my view, this was not a matter of God's will, it was very human hands that led to the calls and decisions by which we could talk about permanent winners in Hungary, and today the news is no longer that a government close group, a government close to an entrepreneur, wins a serious sum in a public procurement procedure, but that the news is, if he does not accidentally win. So, not God's will, but very much human intentions and not decent human intentions motivate these decisions. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, given that from a professional point of view, the Republic of Hungary The Hungarian Socialist Party will not support the bill submitted. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-07-8	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Bertalan Tóth. You have more than 14 minutes.
u2015-10-07-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Budget law may be the country's most important law. It reveals the social philosophy of a government, how much the state takes away from and how much of the community in a given year. The review of the implementation of the 2014 budget clearly outlines the completely distorted, exclusional, stigmatizing social policy of Fidesz. The distribution system that you have created over the past five years is nothing more than what János Lázár said: "He who has nothing is worth so much. Although you said something else at a committee hearing yesterday about the theft tendencies of state executives, I'll let you know later. So the essence of philosophy is that the earner earns more, and the poor earn less. [[10.40]] Actually, it's a reverse story, an anti-story, a reverse Robin Hood, where they take it away from the poor and give it to the rich. The current distorted system of personal income tax benefits those with high incomes to such an extent that family tax relief cannot offset this. And the very significant tax relief of the three children is limited to a very narrow circle, with the highest incomes, numerically one fifth of the employees can only be used. The government expected an economic growth of 2 per cent in 2014. Compared to this, GDP growth was 3.6 percent. Compared to this, the government spent less than planned, not only in proportion to GDP, but also in real nominal terms. According to the 2014 plans, public finances would have spent another 58.5 percent of their consolidated functional expenditure on welfare functions, but only 54.7 percent of those expenditure was actually spent. So less than he originally planned. The state would have spent still 29,5 percent of GDP on welfare functions in 2014, including education, health and social benefits; however, from the data, the report, it is clear that the government has not only spent less on welfare expenditure than planned, but even compared to 2013. In 2013, nearly 31 percent of GDP was spent by the state on welfare expenditure, and in 2014 only 28 percent were actually spent. This change is mainly due to a reduction in expenditure on social policy, social benefits, pensions, family support and unemployment benefits. Compared to the 2013 performance, which was 17.7 per cent, compared to the planned one, which was 16.7 per cent, even less than that, the state spent just over 15 per cent on these purposes. In particular, we have seen a sharp reduction in social security benefits, unemployment benefits and social assistance. As a result of this policy, 38 percent of Hungarians have serious financial problems according to a research conducted by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences this year. One in five Hungarians lives in extreme poverty. According to Eurostat methodology, 9 elementary indicators were used to measure material difficulties. 1. The household is unable to cover an unexpected, larger amount of expenditure from its own resources. 2. The household is not able to pay the rent, the house repayment, the common cost, the utility fee or the payment of the money loan. 3. The household cannot allow them to go on holiday for at least one week a year. 4. The household shall not allow meat or equivalent food to be eaten at least every other day. 5. The household is unable to heat its home properly. The household does not have a financial reason: 6th automatic washing machine, 7th colour television, 8th telephone, 9th passenger car. Researchers calculate that there is a problem in the household where at least 3 of the 9 elementary indicators apply. The problem is serious if 4 of these 9 are valid. Based on these measurements, researchers have shown that unexpected spending is a problem for 76 percent of the people surveyed. Similarly, two out of three respondents said that they could not afford to go on vacation at least once a year. A lower but still rather high proportion of people living in households where proper meals are a problem. That's 25 percent of the respondents. It represents a very high proportion, 20 percent, that there is some kind of payment delay. Actually, 12 percent of the respondents said that the heating of their house was a problem. According to the research, there are huge regional differences, 60 percent of the people in Budapest say that they can easily cover their household expenses, while 90 percent of the people in the villages say that this is difficult for them. The regional differences between East and West, the capital and the countryside are also seen in employment. In the North Great Plain and North Hungary, all of the employed quarters have been public workers in the last year. Ladies and gentlemen, In the financial assessment of 2014 we cannot go beyond the fact that in the energy and banking sectors last year, he spent very serious amounts, hundreds of billions of forints on state purchases. My fellow Member has referred to this. It is a serious problem in itself that all the debts of hospitals could have been paid with this kind of money, and the wage increases of nurses, carers, and nannys could have been covered. It is tragic, however, that János Lázár said at a committee hearing yesterday that the Fidesz management of public companies is stealing from agricultural companies. If that's the case, it's possible they're stealing from energy companies and public banks. Based on what has been said, it is no wonder that nearly 600 thousand of our countrymen left Hungary. On the basis of the logic of Fidesz, this is not the result of this policy, but the purpose of this policy. After all, last year, our countrymen who migrated from Hungary sent home more than HUF 1200 billion. How good it is for the government, because they do not use domestic public services, hospitals, medical care, their children do not go to Hungarian schools, they do not use roads, they do not cost the Hungarian state money, while they return more than HUF 1200 billion! Of course, if we take into account Fidesz's psychotic idea, which we heard yesterday from Péter Harrach and Bence Rétvári in their speech before the agenda, that as economic immigrants would certainly not vote for Fidesz, this is good for the Hungarian government in all respects. But let's leave the sick thoughts alone. The point is that even though people are stunned by Fidesz MEPs with wonderful figures, people experience in their own skin that Fidesz is not only a fault of its power obsession and money hunger, but that it takes away the chance of social ascension and drove nearly 40 percent of Hungarians into poverty. The 2014 budget, rather than serving to improve this situation, has made this situation worse, and this is clearly seen in figures and research. This is why the Hungarian Socialist Party demands that a salary increase be made, a net minimum wage of HUF 100,000 is required, a salary increase is required in the public sector, and a minimum pension increase of HUF 50,000 is required. These proposals must be supported in order to at least ease the situation that has arisen in Hungary because of your five-year governance. On this basis, we cannot support the report on the implementation of the 2014 budget. Thank you for listening.
u2015-10-07-10	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-10-07-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Minister, Mr President of the SAO, Dear Parliament, The socialist keynote speaker found a shutdown that was said to be opaque. However, the lack of transparency did not prevent him from giving a strong enough negative opinion on the country's performance, the country's management and budget closure. [[Zoltán Grimlock: To the point!]] I see a contradiction here in itself between the sentence of the starter and what was then said. This budget serves a distorted social structure, says my fellow Member Bertalan Tóth. All I will add to your comment, to this opaque social policy, which, according to their vision, the budget and closing accounts clearly serve, is that, in addition, we have had the opportunity to help those in trouble, I am talking about foreign exchange taxpayers only marginally, and in 2014 we also had the opportunity to leave significant amounts for families through family support, raise wages, and, through the reduction of the rent, the 2014 budget actually generated income growth for all Hungarian families. [[10.50]] But I would like to say my position and KDNP's position in advance, and not only to respond to the socialist keynote speaker, so as a starting sentence, I will describe the financial and budgetary environment that the Orbán government has set itself since the constitutionalisation, and has continued to manage the budget in this financial and budgetary environment, and will account for this management every year with the adoption of the accounts. The adoption of the Fundamental Law, before 2011, described the constitution at that time as - to be said - a public financial part of that basic law, not a substantial part of it, but the current government had the possibility that, if it was perceived as good in their good work, the country would be sold irresponsiblely and without necks. This marked the period of socialist governments. The same constitutional deficiency - which I can already describe today without such rules being contained in the then basic law, the then constitution - did not prevent the Orbán government from making significant debt cuts every budget year, unlike the socialists who have indebted the country. When we were constitutionalising, when we adopted the Fundamental Law, we saw it important to establish a public financial chapter in the Fundamental Law, and the most important provision in this public financial chapter is the institution of the debt brake, which is the Fundamental Law, and thus also prevents irresponsible management at the level of the highest law. When we evaluate a closing account, we should always give an account of it - that is what the President of the Court of Auditors has done, Mr. State Secretary - that the management of this constitutional environment, i.e. the Fundamental Law, the Stability Act, the Public Finance Act and, of course, the Finance Law, has complied with what we are now giving account of. And the gentlemen who said both of them gave me an account of this, and I can confirm it in this respect. In this financial and constitutional context, I can say that the budget management of the Orbán government has been consistent every year since 2010. What are the budgetary targets that we wanted to achieve every year, and this was the case in 2014? The government has always sought to contain the budget deficit. The government has always sought to reduce public debt. It has always sought to increase employment, and every year the government has sought to strengthen its growth potential. These objectives were also included in the 2014 budget and we can confirm with the adoption of the accounts that these budget targets have been met successfully. In 2014, the government was strongly confronted with the high foreign exchange debt that marked the state, families and businesses - so no income owner who was not indebted to the neck - as a barrier to internal consumption. Therefore, in 2014 the government prepared measures to reduce foreign exchange debt. I'm thinking about the bill of accountability, the mandatory forinting and the fair bank law. I will also mention the impact that this has had on the management of 2014 and the effects that are evident in 2015. One of the most important indicators that we always measure budgetary management - and this closing act informs us - is that growth, the additional assets that the country's economy could produce compared to the previous year, is positive to the planned one. Our growth was 3.6 percent compared to the previous year's management. We can always account for the fact that this growth among the countries of the European Union brings Hungary to the third place in the system of cooperation in Visegrád, and therefore Hungary is the largest place of growth among our immediate neighbours. Moreover, we have not achieved this growth by disrupting the balance, which is typical of the period of socialist governments, not by borrowing this growth, but by generating this growth from the country's real surplus of performance. What supported this extremely spectacular growth surplus? In particular, I would like to mention the consumption of households. Household consumption increased by 1.7 percent according to the bill submitted. What's behind this impressive number? On the one hand, there is an increase in the number of jobs - the number of people who have increased - obviously means more consumption - and then we can account for the increase in nominal wages, and we can clearly state that pensions have increased in 2014, real wages have increased, and this has obviously been supported by extremely low inflation. Another thing that has greatly stimulated and helped this 3.6 percent increase is the development of investments. As early as 2013, we could say that there was an investment turnaround, and this investment turn was strengthened in 2014, and we can talk about very impressive numbers. The economic development was HUF 5200 billion, and investments increased by 14 percent. The investment rate was 21,4 per cent of GDP in 2014. The 3.6 percent increase, as in previous years, was also supported by significant export surpluses. This was 8.7 percent in 2014. As in previous years, dynamically increasing automotive exports should be highlighted. In addition, we produced this export surplus despite the Russian import ban, because the Russian import ban obviously also slows the export performance of the Hungarian economy, but we were able to produce 8.7 percent more exports than in the previous year. I already indicated the growth of employees when I mentioned increasing consumption of households. It is important to note that employment growth was 5.4 percent in 2014. That's a total of 208 thousand people. The President of the Court also mentioned that we had reached 4.1 million employees by the end of the year. We know where we started, and we know where we're supposed to fight ourselves. We always compare ourselves with the Czech Republic, where there are still significantly more people employed in a country of 10 million people than we were able to do before, but I think we are clearly on this path. If we look at the employment rate between 16 and 64 years of age, we can see that this has increased from 58.1 percent to 61.8 percent. If we look at the economic activity rate of the 16-64-year-olds, we can conclude that this was achieved by 67 percent by the end of the year. Obviously, there is always a question of how the number of unemployed people will turn out. [[11.00]] I think it is a commendable and very nice number, as the two expos have also recorded, that unemployment has fallen by 2.5 percent and stood at 7.7 percent by the end of the year. When we talk about the positive development of wage indices, and here again I refer back to the sentences of socialist speakers who considered our whole social policy to be extremely unfair. [[Zoltán Pride: Because it is.]] I would like to mention, in particular, the additional benefits of teachers and the additional benefits of law enforcement organisations in relation to the development of wage indices. Even if not to this extent, the social sector and healthcare institutions have received additional wage benefits. inflation; at some point we wouldn't dare dream of saying 0.2 percent. So, technically, there was no loss of money in the country. Of course, low oil prices and lower prices have greatly contributed to this low inflation. At one time, remembering what inflation figures we had to account for tens of years ago, I could not imagine that Hungary would live to see this saving state, that there was no deterioration of money in the country. Hungary's net payout capacity increased to 8.3 percent in proportion to GDP. What makes this possible, or what made it possible, in 2014? On the one hand, I have already pointed out that the country's exports have increased significantly, but at the same time the income outflow from the country has decreased sharply. One factor of this is the deterioration of our external government debt, and therefore, obviously, our interest payment obligations have also decreased. But what is important here, and I am happy to mention this, because Bertalan Tóth also talked about how we value people who take temporary jobs abroad; because these Hungarians refer significant amounts back to Hungary. The number quoted by Bertalan Tóth is 1,200 billion. I am always talking about these people, and I am convinced that this is the right position, that they are, on the one hand, hardworking people and people with knowledge, who are able to sell their own labour force in the single European Union market. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Only not at home.]] Obviously, I know that they would be happier to do so in Hungary, but as long as Hungary is unable to provide more jobs than we expected, the performance of these people can only be talked about with a glass, because they are able to sell their knowledge from Lisbon to the Baltic and Scandinavia to Sicily. So people with diligence, abilities, and performance are behind them. So it's appropriate to talk about them, I think. And, of course, the 6 billion-dollar transfer from the European Union to Hungary contributed to our net financing capacity. Sándor Burány arranges this so that it is a one-time payout success and not the government's performance. Honourable Member, basically the government's performance. In order for the government to be able to make such a large amount of money, these funds had to be made available in Brussels, which you were unable to do at the time. They operated an EU payment institution that was really opaque, unlike this budget, and they were very drained of funds. The government was determined to transform this institutional system. András Tállai talked about the fact that the leaders of these programmes have been included in the ministries, the Prime Minister's Office moves these directors in a coordinated manner, and the result of this transformed institutional structure and the strong political will is that Hungary is able to apply successfully, and there are obviously bigger payments behind the successful proposals. So it can't be arranged that this is a once-in-a-lifetime success, and it has nothing to do with the government. No! This is not a once-in-a-lifetime success, because this, we hope, will continue, and the government's performance is very much in this; it is not a gift from God, contrary to what the socialist lead speaker mentioned in the context of the weather. There is no doubt that we cannot influence the weather, and we will continue to do so less in the future, perhaps I can mention that we are friends with God more than the previous ones, and this may be part of the development of agricultural performance. As regards the development of our public debt, we can conclude from the foregoing that, according to the EU methodology, the government debt fell to 76,9 per cent from 77,3 per cent of the previous year. As long as we have a deficit and a public debt, obviously this deficit must be financed in some way. The government did this successfully, the sovereign debt issues were successful in 2014, and Hungary, the Hungarian budget, had to pay an ever lower premium for these sovereign debt, because foreign markets also recognise the performance of the Hungarian economy or the Hungarian budget in this respect. Overall, I can say that the reduction in public debt has also resulted in a significant reduction in the country's external exposure. I have already talked about growth, but with regard to the deficit, which is an extremely important factor, I can say that it was more favourable than expected, since the budget law planned this deficit at 2.9 per cent, whereas the deficit was achieved at 2.5 per cent, according to another methodology 2.6 per cent. The government has continued to pursue a different economic policy in the first half of 2014, and has had the opportunity for a different policy in the second half of 2014. Because since 2010 the government in this changed financial and economic environment, which we have drawn for ourselves, has always been characterized by careful farming. This was the case in the first half of 2014, because in the first half, the government decided on a balancing measure of HUF 110 billion as a precaution. The President of the State Court of Auditors described this as a tightening of budgetary management. And when the government saw that economic growth was strong in the second half of 2014, economic growth was predictable, economic growth produced surpluses that we did not expect, it lifted the tightening of the first half of the year, and spent HUF 55 billion in excess of the year as a whole. There was money to finance the roads, I think it is very important, there was money to raise the capital of Eximbank, there was money to prepare for the introduction of an electronic road freight system, this also meant a number of billions, and there was money to be converted into wealth. Socialist speakers also talk about this in a negative way. I think it is important that if we have the opportunity to increase the country's wealth, and we are able to do so, to increase the state's wealth, then this is a meaningful achievement. And there was money, not as much as we wanted, but there was money for healing and preventive care. On the municipal sub-scheme, which is important for many of us, I would just like to note what President Domokos and State Secretary Tállai have said: the funding of municipalities has stabilised. It is important to mention this because, not long before 2014, the municipalities were transferred to a completely different economic path after the government withdrew their debt, and this new municipal funding system shows stability compared to the previous ones. This is important, since the municipalities provide the most basic services to the population living in their municipalities. [[11.10]] So, Honourable Parliament, as a last thought, I wish to myself that we could have a lot of accounts, or we could discuss close accounts such as the 2014 year, which is a reflection of the closing of a successful budget year. On behalf of the KDNP fraction, I can say that we will support this accounts, and I ask the Parliament to do so. Thank you for your patience. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-07-12	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-10-07-13	Mr President, [[His microphone's buzzing.]] Dear House, Man is always made with a carefully assembled material, about which certain illusions are then shattered. Here, along with some of the topics that were brought in during the expo, there were some rather harsh things to be said. We're gonna switch mics right now, and these rough stuff could be on the table.
u2015-10-07-14	Congressman, we're changing the microphone. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much.
u2015-10-07-15	Thank you very much. I have just mentioned some harsh things, and I have done this for no reason, because we would not have had any problems if, in connection with a draft budget, the period in which it was closed, the government had been honest to say - for example, Mr Hargitai - that there were indeed economic effects outside of us, and that the government had been fortunate to have taken the right steps along with these positive effects, and then we would have discussed the extent to which all these steps and, of course, the wrong actions were in line with the budget rules, whether the government had collected taxes or spent public money. Compared to this, we've actually been listening to a self-polishing stash that's completely unwarranted. It turns out that you are already closer to God than others, in your own terms, and that the brilliant performance of the Hungarian government has contributed to the Hungarian economy soaring. And really, if the superficial observer encounters the first data, he might even believe some of this, because the economy has increased by more than 3 percent, the deficit is now permanently below the Maastricht criterion of 3 percent, there is no inflation, otherwise the increase in real earnings could be reported at all. But there is no long-term basis for what has been said here, because let us say: on the one hand, the EU's spinning resources have heated up the entire economy, so we are talking about a temporary mechanism of action that is joyful, which we do not underestimate at all, but to say so, that the basis for the sustainability of development has been established recently, quite simply unbearable. If we look at the main figures of the Hungarian economy or the so-called GDP increase, we should not primarily be thinking about the consumption of households here, but, let us say, in terms of motor vehicle production within the speed of the manufacturing industry, an enhanced activity that can be guaranteed in a certain way on the basis of the scandals of the last few weeks, it can be said that it will not be long-term, sustainable or sustainable. So all the negative consequences of the sick, one-way structure of the Hungarian economy will come down in the following year, but even after that, absolutely certainly. It was also said here that this so-called reduction process has caused an increase in income for Hungarian people. These are quite amazing statements, as they are included in the budget you have submitted, in order to recoup a significant part of the amount saved by the reduction of the bills, so to speak, to public utility companies, in the form of state aid, in order to compensate them for their ability to maintain their ability to function. So don't say that a measurable increase in income is caused by the fact that on one side the public receives a discount of roughly equal to the drop in world prices, but on the other hand it is taken out of its pocket and passed on from tax forints to public utility companies. It can also be seen that keeping inflation at this level cannot be a decades-old process, these are cyclically changing factors, and these cyclical changes will certainly be filtered over the coming years. So it can be said that the basis for the sustainability of development cannot be talked about, and then it can be talked about, if we are not a German province with virtually half status in the economic field, if German economic activity does not influence so much what is happening in Hungary, if we can build on the agricultural sector better, if we have a tax system to support production and support active people to a measurable extent, then we can certainly talk about long-term processes. Until then, this is mainly about spill-over effects, and fortunately, these effects were positive at the moment, so let's not argue that this is a good thing, and we should be happy and make the most of it. But there have been statements here that there has been a marked improvement in the financial situation of the population. Let us leave the list of poverty statistics now, because there are several of them, everyone tries to support their own system of views. But the fact that, in addition to the increase in consumption of 1.7 percent of the population, it would have been in a significantly better financial situation, perhaps here in Parliament, among the walls of the House, unfortunately, but it still leaves, but do not try to do the same at a residential forum, because they will find amazing reactions, legitimate reactions, I might add, because there are amazing disproportions. If you only think about the average payment according to the KSH, then the big, six-digit net item in a small region of Szabolcsi or Borsod is quite unimaginable, since an average worker is happy with physical work if he makes 70-80-90 thousand forints in net form. Okay, in order to raise this statistics by various banker and competitive payments, it's very right that we do, but let's not start from such an average, and let's not talk about improvement if there's such a wide spread. The standard deviation is huge, and it can also be said that the increase in real wages, the minimum increase in pensions, is a joyful thing, but if they had not been able to show such a low rate of inflation mainly due to international influences and other factors, then we simply could not talk about all of this right now. Economic growth does not seem to be sustainable to the extent that the effects of the current crisis in terms of the automotive industry and, in particular, the German automotive industry will be felt in the short term, and let us also talk about the fact that the GDP increase has been assessed on a five-year average and, on average, the annual growth rate of GDP, if only 1.3 percent, if all the industries, suppliers and others associated with the German automotive industry are deducted and prepared for a crisis or crisis tsunami in the coming years, you will see that this minimum increase can easily evaporate. I'm not a backup fan, don't be like that, but all of this is set up in the brilliant course of action and activity of the government, quite simply untenable professionally. However, there is an activity of the government that we do not get criticism of often enough, and that is incredible indebtedness. As long as the Fidesz-KDNP government can't do anything about debt, it can't talk about a successful budget, and therefore it can't talk about closing accounts. Let's see what you said. In 2010, when they took over, their Széll Kálmán plan, the austerity package named after Kálmán Széll, promised to cut the level of government debt to 65-70% of public finances. On the other hand, let us look at what your reasoning and bill again contain: 76,9 percent of the debt ratio calculated in 2014 according to the European Union's methodology. This is said by the general justification of the bill, so it has not been possible to reach your own goal. After that, it's interesting to talk about the government's economic success. Not only is the degree of indebtedness brutal, since it could be beautiful with various statistics, it could be examined in proportion to GDP, and then it may be a bit more favourable, but if we look at interest expenditure, we see that the related interest expenditures have increased further, and the budget itself shows an additional increase of HUF 184 billion, I add, an increase of 16% compared to the previous one. This means that there is still a level above 4 per cent of gross domestic product, from which, by the way, amounts that are almost close to the amount of personal income tax income, so Hungary spends a huge amount of money only to meet its interest expenditure. Once again, you can conjure us with statistics that show that the level of indebtedness is falling, but as long as we see that the increase in interest expenditures has either continued or remained stable in recent years, it is very difficult for you to defend this position. And if we look at sectors with welfare functions, all the resources spent on health care, social security, then we see that we are clearly dealing with losing sectors, you are making clear cuts, you approve and you tolerate these sectors. [[11.20]] Employment is another interesting issue. Here, in the self-polishing process, this has also been mentioned several times as to how well employment is, how much its indicators have improved. On the one hand, these indicators are a little diluted with public workers, and the question arises to the Secretary of State as to how much Hungarians working abroad are involved in employment indicators, just as in terms of the number of live births, how can it be imagined that Hungarian children born abroad are included in live birth statistics. Yes or no? What does your methodology say about that? Did you agree with the leaders of the KSH on this matter? So these are very important questions about what the distortions of statistics are in this system, because they are your reference to their supposed success. We also need to see that there are three specific reasons why this closure cannot be supported under any color. I must quote the excellent László Nyikos, whose expert material has remained valid since 2010, almost all of his findings are correct, and we can say that the professional argument against him, against his terms, could not really support either the Court of Auditors or the Government. It is enough to look at the figures, how much the government spends on itself, how much it spends on the state apparatus, and we find that the Parliament wanted to increase by HUF 10 billion the amount of money they spend on themselves by 2014 compared to 2013, but then it increased by HUF 60 billion; a total of HUF 799 billion was spent on the state apparatus. There is, of course, a question that arises from the point of view of budgetary law: did the government have the power to override a parliamentary decision and spend another 60 billion on itself? But I'm sure as long as the third Orbán government spends more on itself, on itself, than any of its predecessors, it's very difficult to negotiate this account as a certificate of successful and economical operation of the government. So this is a reason that is simply indefensible, they cannot prove to us the normal reason why they spend so much more on themselves. Here, the role of the Hungarian National Bank also arises, because if we look at the last few years, we see that in 2013 and 2014 the MNB gained an amazing profit on the so-called settlement of the position of foreign exchange lenders, in many cases due to exchange rate changes. I would have considered it justified to have at least this extra profit to create a compensation fund to support those in the most difficult situations, those with a broken family or those who have already lost their homes, but the government has not actually taken any supportive action towards them. They're trying to focus on those who are still able to moan about unreasonably increased burdens, but the hardest ones have no energy, no resources. In a successful economy, this would otherwise not happen, so I would also help the most difficult social classes, at least keep them level or contribute to their catch-up. As long as that doesn't come up, I'm going to say it again, it's very difficult to appreciate this account positively. As far as MNB's policy is concerned, if we take a pro-cyclical approach, let's say assume that the current profits must be invested in something, so that we can then, in times of recession, be able to do something, then real estate investments may be the worst. After all, in times of crisis, what is it that loses most of its value? It's the investment property that the MNB was throwing away this extra profit, this extra money. So if we were to take a pro-cyclical approach, the Hungarian National Bank started on the worst possible route, but unfortunately it has not been able to do so recently. A second very important reason for this closure is unacceptable, a continuing violation of the law on the part of the government, namely the national inventory, the lack of a national inventory and the lack of accounting for the state's assets. László Nyikos may have been tired of this fact that he has rightly demanded the national inventory several times each year, but the fact is that in a Government Decision of 2010, the Government asks the Minister for National Development to arrange for the preparation of the national inventory, including the unified, integrated state register system, and the task should have been fulfilled by the appointed government members - the Minister for National Development, the Minister for Rural Development - by 31 December 2011. The thing is, none of this has been achieved. We rub this problem in the government every year, and again, it doesn't do anything. We can reassure you: László Nyikos has done this for four years, from here on in the Jobbik fraction, who will do this several times a year, until the inventory of the country is completed, without which this closing account is clearly lacking in accounting for the state's assets. It is not only revenue and expenditure that should be accounted for, but also assets, their resources. In the past, there was a government accounting law that contained the partial rules of this law, now there is no such thing, but it would still be expected of the government to fulfil its own commitment after all these years. The third reason is the role of the State Audit Office itself. We have to say here that we have a so-called compliance check ahead of us, so we are looking at revenue, expenditure, and we are drawing conclusions. State assets are practically excluded from this whole system. It has been mentioned that there has been some increase in state wealth, but let us not identify this with an inventory of assets, a national inventory or a national inventory, and quite simply a financial audit according to international terminology is completely lacking, along with almost all its characteristics. It is no coincidence that László Nyikos described this earlier as the SAO actually transferred from an Audi to a Trabant, if we look at his methodology and you are free to navigate between different forms of control. I do not wish to cancel the professional readiness of the head of the Court of Auditors, because when we held an exchange of views on the control of local governments and public finances, we received very competent responses from highly prepared people, such as the number of hundreds of Hungarian municipalities who are excluded from the audit, so they are not specifically subject to control. But what we need to see is that there is little in itself to explain the evolution of revenue and expenditure, so we could rightly expect much more from the Court of Auditors in this regard, since it does not essentially say anything about changes in assets. The fact that a pro-government lead speaker here says that there has been some increase in shares, that the state has purchased, that it has made certain acquisitions, that the state's wealth seems to have increased, that it is very, very far from an inventory. Overall, we must say that Parliament is in a very difficult situation. For if you were to judge, on the basis of such modest information, the fulfilment of the budget of the period in question as to whether it complied with the legal requirements, then all we can say is that you cannot do so on a professional basis, and you must rely on your belief in faith. After all, the author should believe the things that are missing from behind numbers, missing, let's say, items of wealth, an examination of assets. I can see that the Paksameta is very thick, but - I repeat once again - a comparison of revenue and expenditure alone is not enough to assess whether the objectives and legal requirements have been met. I would add that if we were to walk around with such a pacsameta, we could already introduce a rule "n-2" in terms of the budget and perhaps even attach them to the closing account. After all, in the course of budgetary debates, comparison with previous years can take place in maximum expos, but not at all in impact studies and studies. Much has been said here by the representatives of the governing parties: that there has been a marked improvement in the financial situation of the Hungarian population, while, according to OECD statistics, the tax burden of a two-child family is still close to the fourth worst in the OECD countries. We are talking about an overtaxed economy, where, by the way, a speaker has now stated as a success that, for example, there has been more progress in terms of the financial transaction levy than they expected. The problem is that the financial institutions concerned themselves have acknowledged that this form of levy has been passed on almost entirely to the population. So in this case, when the pro-government representative says that more than expected has taken place, it is easy to identify this by transferring much more than expected to Hungarian people. The same was the problem with the so-called reduction in overhead costs: on one side there is a mass of money, which appears to be about the same as the world market price reduction, and, as I mentioned, half of it was first taken from taxpayers' money to replace utility companies and then more later. It is possible to write on the billboard the amount of overhead and burden relief, but the reality shows something else at systemic level. To sum up, let us welcome this low inflation rate, which will not be eternal, let us welcome the EU's spin-off effects, which are also far from eternal, but let us worry a little bit about the fact that much more than 90 percent of investment in terms of investment is still being made from external sources in a completely unhealthy economic structure that, relying on the vehicle industry, strongly linked to the German economy, is actually due to positive or negative international spin-off effects that we can now report positive events and perhaps worry about the next year. [[11.30]] All this is compounded by an incredibly overtaxed environment and an indebted state, an indebted national economy, where, while trying to prove with various statistical magical activities, let us say, that the level of public debt has remained at some level compared to something, even if it is reduced, against which I am skeptical, but we can see that there is also a continuous systemic increase in interest expenditure. So, unfortunately, this economy is not doing well. This could now be a state of grace, an easier year when positive spill-over effects give us some room for manoeuvre, and we can say that some room for manoeuvre would be present now. Otherwise, a fair bureaucracy reduction programme could be put through - which we discussed yesterday for a long time, but this is far from complete - and the domestic economy could be mobilised through a home-building programme, in fact from its own resources. But these plans are completely absent, we do not see them, so the government can again have a rain dance for the positive international effects in the next period, which is very, very little for a sovereign nation state. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-07-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. Before I give the floor to the next lead speaker, I would like to welcome Mr Péter Banai, Secretary of State, on behalf of the authors. Then comes the lead speaker of the LMP Group, Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck.
u2015-10-07-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The 2014 budget was an election budget, with no big redeployments or novelties. As we said then, the small, apparent improvement in each area meant that the brutal restrictions of previous years had been cemented. In the years before 2014, hundreds of billions were withdrawn from education, health care and active job creation. The latter was replaced by community service. The result was: in four years there was virtually no growth in market jobs, only public work increased to 150,000 people. There was no shift from the bottom of the pit this year beyond the truncated introduction of the pedagogical career, but the wage increase included in it was accompanied by an increase in the burden. In the social sphere, no unchanged wages have been raised for years, and the framework for housing and outpatient care has been reduced by HUF 15 billion even then. All this in an economic policy environment where, in the midst of several years of economic stagnation, especially because of the introduction of a single-key girlfriend, but also because of other taxes and the reduction of the rent, an incredible redistribution from the poor to the rich and from ordinary people to the nearby elite Fidesz has been achieved. There were, of course, areas that did not lack in the midst of education, the reduction of health care and the low pressure on wages. The number of the Prime Minister's Office has been tripled, the stadium constructions have received HUF 84+50 billion, the unnecessary spending has exceeded HUF 300 billion at first glance. And there was no shortage of resources when the government continued to purchase overpriced energy companies, this trend was achieved by more than HUF 60 billion, and during the year the budget had to be adjusted. The public service framework was also overachieved, and during the summer the locks had to be put in place. This is not surprising, during the election year, public work was skyrocketed, and basically budget resources were used to buy votes. And immediately after the elections, the numbers were reduced. 2014 was the year when it was finally revealed that the previous main fight against sovereign debt had failed, although at the end of each year hundreds of tricks were made to keep the debt shown within the limits. In January 2014, the loan framework agreement with the Russians of HUF 3000 billion ensured that debt would return to growth. And now I would also like to respond to Mr Tallai's assessment. Mr Tállai appreciated the success of the government's economic policy, the soaring of GDP, and the improvement of the country's performance for quite some time. We see it differently. The LMP has repeatedly drawn the government's attention to the misguided economic policy in which car manufacturing is the driving force of industry, when the government is not primarily building on small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, when most of the subsidies are given to multinational companies when they sink it into a country of assembly. The figures refer to the distorted economic structure of the country, the dominance of multinational companies and car manufacturers, the vulnerable situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. The production of cars accounts for 22 percent of industrial production. The performance of our automotive industry is many times the production of pharmaceuticals, but all other industries, including the food industry, are dwarfed. The food industry is half the share of the automotive industry, even though we have excellent agricultural conditions and we always need food. More than 90 percent of the production of car production is exported. It should be noted that 21 of the 50 largest exporters in Hungary are vehicle manufacturers, tyre manufacturers or car dealers. This is also a good indicator of the vulnerability of our external trade. Moreover, these exporters are all foreign owned companies. Unfortunately, the last many years have been all about the expansion of the Hungarian automotive industry, and the government has provided billions of tax incentives and subsidies. The government has a heavy responsibility for ignoring the risks of automotive expansion. Car manufacturing is a highly economically sensitive sector, increasing the country's vulnerability in both political and economic terms. For example, Audi and Mercedes are very heavily dependent on emerging markets, especially China. What if there's a bigger recession and they don't want to buy a car? This could happen anytime. In this case, however, nothing would slow down the decline of the Hungarian economy, the sudden deterioration of the external balance. Unfortunately, this is supported by the Volkswagen scandal, the effects of which are unimaginable for the time being. The duality in the Hungarian economy became more and more extreme. Even though Hungarian GDP is growing dynamically, this is in fact only in the higher profits of the foreign corporations operating here, the simple workers feel nothing of it. In practice, duality is most evident in the fact that, while one of the EU's most dynamically growing economies is the Hungarian economy, every year, according to all indicators, workers' poverty is becoming more and more severe. 80% of Hungarians have no use for GDP growth. Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises do not develop. A supply chain has been built around the automotive industry, but it is not sufficiently extensive. The sad feature of Hungarian economic development is that multi-enterprises receive a tax reduction of around HUF 200 billion, while the SME sector can benefit around one billion, while we hope for job creation primarily from SMEs. Instead of the assembly country, instead of seducing car manufacturers, we should support and install sectors with high added value in Hungary. This would require a strong support for education and innovation rather than the current downsizing and obstruction. We need real competition, where talent and diligence are the key to success, not political relations. Overall, the 2014 budget has therefore strengthened the fragmentation of society by cementing austerity. Its implementation has been solved financially, with fewer modifications and sealing compared to previous years, but this is not very positive for the country's development. The destruction of social and economic capital has not been stopped, and the low wages and cuts have been made up of the problems that have increased this year - the increase in workers' poverty, migration, shortage of professionals, the accelerated breakdown of the countryside. Thank you for your attention. [[11.40]]
u2015-10-07-18	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No independent congressman has applied for a statement. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I therefore give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, who will present the first sentences of his speech in his mother tongue and then translate it into Hungarian. You have the floor, Mr. Speaker.
u2015-10-07-19	Thank you, Mr. President. Уважаеми господин Председател, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позволете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинствената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. As a spokesperson invited by the committee, I would like to inform the Parliament that the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities has conducted a detailed debate on the bill and has formed the following opinion. CCXXX of 2013 on Hungary's central budget for 2014 In the opinion of the bill on the implementation of the law, we can say that our right of opinion covers a period in which we have only been partially involved. In 2014, after the elections, Hungary's nationalities had the opportunity to contribute to the central budget, their preparation and adoption, to express the problems affecting nationalities and to represent their solution within the parliamentary framework. In a brief summary, I would like to give an overview of the main areas affecting Hungarian ethnicities. First of all, I would like to mention the civil society organisations of nationality, as they are the guardians of ethnic culture, ethnic traditions and ethnic identity. The operating and programme support of national minority NGOs in 2014 was 110 million HUF, which has not been increased for a long time. The current proposals submitted to the Human Resources Support Manager in 2014 show that only a small proportion of the aid requested can be assessed because of a lack of resources. The committee of nationalities welcomed and thanked for the regular support of several ethnic communities through the intergovernmental ethnicity joint committees. At the same time, it was necessary to change this situation in the future. In the case of the majority of nationalities in Hungary, this option did not exist systematically, and it was therefore necessary to provide a specific source, all the more so, as the number of national minority institutions adopted by national authorities has increased and will increase significantly. In the area of support for national minority self-governments: for national minority self-governments with very diverse and diverse tasks, public finance legislation and further legislative changes and the 2014 general government and accounting changeover continuously and permanently increased operating costs. These additional tasks were also a problem. In the area of support for local and regional minority self-governments: there has been a significant change in the system of support for local and regional self-governments, as the transition to task-based support has been introduced. As a result, the overall operating aid rate has changed to a low amount in practice. So the problem was not only that the amount of aid had not increased in 6-8-10-12 years, but it was at least as serious a problem that they were deeply underfunded even at the start of the project. Following these decades of negative, increasingly depressing history, nationalities had the opportunity to present their work in the draft law on the central budget of 2015 by representing the institution of spokesperson in Parliament. In the view of national minority advocates, steps should be taken to create more favourable conditions, which started as early as the summer of 2014. In close cooperation, we began to assess and compile the needs of Hungarian nationalities in relation to the 2015 budget. Our proposals were sent to all the factions, professional wallets, long before the 2015 budget was submitted. With weeks of continuous work, several stages of consultation, and a compromise open mind, we reached a consensus-based package of amendments that were considered professionally sound by the wallets before the general debate on the draft budgetary law began, with the support of which all parliamentary groups and independent Members had the will to support. This can mean a clear breakthrough, a meaningful, positive shift in the relationship between Hungarian nationalities and Hungarian politics, as Parliament has ensured the parliamentary representation of Hungarian nationalities, which is why we have the opportunity to express our opinion. In 2013, significant progress has been made towards the expansion of cultural autonomy by extending the legal possibilities for national minority self-government reservations or ownership of national minority institutions and by substantially increasing and normative the operational support of the national minority public education institutions received. The adoption by Parliament of the amendment proposal to the draft central budget law of 2015 to be submitted by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, agreed with the relevant wallets, all parliamentary factions and independent representatives, can at last lead to a meaningful, comprehensive improvement in the life of Hungarian nationalities. At the same time, this decision of the new Hungarian Parliament gave weight and gave credibility to the institution of minority advocates, and this means that Hungarian politics really means the presence and role of Hungarian ethnic minorities in the Parliament, and at last considers us to be equal partners. With regard to the report on the 2014 Central Budget Act, and the closing accounts, I have already mentioned that I can say or give an opinion without any obligation, because we, the nationalities and my fellow speakers in Hungary, have not yet been given the central budget and preparation of 2014 to represent our interests in substance, to express our legitimate requests with our parliamentary role. On the other hand, our amendment to the draft law on the central budget of 2015 could be drawn up and agreed on independently, and in the political decision on its total amount our opinion was taken into consideration in substance, and even in the light of the total amount, in particular the priorities, the size and internal proportions of the nationalities living in Hungary. For the first time in the last 25 years, the Hungarian Parliament will be faced with the decision of the central budget bill and its amendments, not without us and above our heads, but with the opinion of the nationalities living in Hungary being heard and taken into account. This is rightly and without exaggeration a historical change. About two years ago, there has been a very positive change, the essence of which is that Hungarian politics understands and understands: national cohesion and the creation of national unity must be established at home by embracing nationalities in Hungary, guaranteeing genuine, guaranteed rights of nationality. Only this can provide a sound basis, credibility and effectiveness for the efforts of Hungarian ethnicities living outside the border, which we support, and which are completely justified. It's in everyone's best interest. Finally, I would like to say that we, nationalities living in Hungary, can finally represent our interests in the Hungarian Parliament, in our mother countries and throughout Europe, with a good heart, as a priority. Thank you for your attention. Благодаря завашето внимание.
u2015-10-07-20	Thank you very much for speaking to Varga Simeon. Dear Parliament, As there is no candidate for two-minute speeches, further speeches will follow. First, I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, first to Mr Zoltán Gőgös, Hungarian Socialist Party, a 15-minute time frame for the speaker. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-10-07-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We see that in the 2014 evaluation the same thing continues, which has always been the case since 2010: there is a continuous positive government propaganda and this is not really a supporting fact. [[11.50]] To be precise, I can even say that it may be possible to support it, but if you look a little deeper into this account, you can see that the bride is not quite so beautiful here. The fact that 2014 was a record year in the sector is obvious - I wish to talk primarily about my own profession and many of the previous speakers have already been affected by agriculture. The record year was obviously the result of the extremely good weather, thanks to KDNPs with good upper contacts, and the high prices and high revenues of a drought in our environment, which can be concluded by the very nature of our environment; but I would also like to point out that this year proves that, working in the same structure, we are still very, very exposed to this type of impact, because the structure of agriculture is bad. And this bad structure would not only improve, but rather continue to deteriorate, thanks to government measures, as it seems that the government has openly declared war on small and medium-sized enterprises, for example, which have given birth to livestock. This can be seen from the support policy, which was born last year, but for example, it can be seen from the fact that yesterday the Minister openly said that if it were up to him, there would be no social enterprise in the Hungarian agriculture. I have some bad news for the Ministry: these economies are likely to survive him and the Fidesz government, but it doesn't matter how. And I am very, very sad when I see that about 100,000, more than 100,000 people are trying to make their fair, officially functioning, livelihoods impossible and put them in an impossible position by political means. This is really, really bad. An example of this is the stock company in Mezőhegyes, where I think they have been enlightened, because yesterday Minister Lázár announced that they are trying to keep the rest of the company and the capacity that has been operating there for 220 years together, but unfortunately I have bad news. If they don't change the application system that's been launched and they don't take those fields back into state treatment, then none of this is going to happen, because that map looks like it was shot up with a shotgun. As I said, this type of economic philosophy typically favours grain-centred agriculture, operated with very, very little living work, and is very, very unhelpful of larger living-intensive sectors. Of course, you can say - and this is part of the evaluation - that thanks to God, the number of cows has increased. But if someone looks at this number, it is sad to see that unfortunately there are now more cattle for fattening than milk cows. This has never been in Hungary. What's wrong with that? That's because, say, 400 cattle for fattening need a good electric shearing system and two people, a 400 dairy farm, and a minimum of 30-40 people. This structural change, which pushes Hungarian agriculture towards a very, very mechanistic and well-organised sector, is a mistake. This is clearly a mistake in aid and aid policy. The fact that there were various measures here - for example, it was said that the government is now trying to grab the nappers and the various fraudsters, it was also about the EC - but it cannot be called a substantive measure because it is apparent from today's newspaper that if a government boasts that they are trying to help a sector with a control system, say they have already taken 8 thousand litres of milk, then I would like to say that this is about 300 ordinary cows' produce, and I have just said that we still have about 250 thousand cows. If one calculates the volume of action that this has taken, how much effect it has had, this is quite problematic. I think that I would like to turn to the specific figures, which are the specific numbers of the accounts. These were the opinions that could be derived from the written text, and I think it is an explanation of a wrong direction. Everyone's talking about an excellent budget. The remainder of the FM is 79 billion forints. That's all, but it's not the result of a thoughtful design. 79 billion doesn't usually stay with a ministry. There's definitely a reason for that. By the way, the interesting thing is that, in addition, revenues were achieved at 448 percent, and the largest item of this is not certain that it is good news, especially for foreign exchange lenders, from exchange rate gains at the Ministry. This means that the government played or plays directly on weak forints, because otherwise it wouldn't be such an exchange rate gain. Now, if there is, we usually spend this on the profession in normal times, and now instead of spending it on it, for example, the KLIK debt, the World Horse Cup event, and various other subsidies, so it was not actually used within the sector. We also know that the Ministry has taken over institutions from KLIK, so perhaps these institutions were underfunded where otherwise there is still no order, I would like to point out. The closing accounting law does not refer to this very much, but it is mostly secondary agricultural education, which is mostly in the Ministry's hands, that has some serious problems. We also see that water directorates have already been transferred to the Ministry of Interior this year, so the entire water budget is obviously missing from the FM. This may be a government decision, whether it is good or not, it is obviously possible to have a professional debate on this, but there is also a fact: there is another area that has been condemned to death by the government here in addition to small and medium-sized enterprises, and this is the water company, which has not brought anyone into its place, so in Hungarian, it has withdrawn the developments and has given them a legal background that is almost impossible to operate with, but in relation to their task - inland water, flooding, etc. So this area is very, very unclaimed, and I would like to draw the attention of the government. According to the description, Nébih performed excellently because it imposed serious penalties and produced serious catches. That's true. So it was pretty spectacular stuff, but we're just scratching the surface. Here, as long as the VAT on food is 27 percent, it can be expected that everyone will try to use it and produce food without VAT in sufniks and other places, as most of the catches are like this. Unfortunately, this also makes it difficult for the type of programme, which, in my view, is the programme of abbreviations for local food and local food chains. Because if people see such a subpar and disgusting environment in certain food processors, even decent small businesses lose their mood. This needs to be very carefully taken and very, very hard measures taken, but once again, it would be best to reduce VAT in the food chain, which is typical of this area, because we will not be able to do it by official means, and the government will not be able to use official means to repel this type of scoundrel in this area. And I cannot help but stress that I would also like to say to Mr Secretary of State that the VAT on substitute products cannot be left in different places. The fact that the pig's VAT is going down, obviously, I can say that it is part of a process and continues what they started with the living pig and the half-pig, but since this is already a retail issue, not wholesale - the other one was more of a producer issue - it can't be a 19-percent difference between pork chops and chicken breasts from now on, let's say. I can't! So I think they're pushing consumption from place to place. I'm not saying the health and other side of this right now, because no one has proven which one is healthier. It is simply that most of the food comes from poultry in Hungary, most of the meat. If you're gonna help the little people, you're gonna have to take that down to five percent. I don't think, in addition to the economic policy that everyone else thinks is brilliant and wonderful, the HUF 6-7 or 8 billion that it costs would not be manageable. Of course, we would suggest a much higher amount of air with a single large reduction, but at least for substitute products this should be done. This did not take place in 2014, or in 15 but will be on one of the topics from now on. [[12.00]] The MVH has extremely high remains; I am talking about the framework of the Rural Development Office. This can only be if some improvements have not been made. This is a problem because we are about to start an application cycle that needs serious IT support, and if this is a failure, which I very much hope has already been replaced this year, then this is a serious problem. Consequently, it also turns out that although only HUF 2 billion was planned for the 2014 budget to be paid to the European Union, HUF 2 billion was not used. So it means that a year has clearly been wasted by the government, that it has not been able to get the rural development programme to be adopted by Brussels. On the other hand, he didn't take any chances. I would just like to point out that, at the beginning of 2007, the government took a very serious risk at that time because of the preservation of livestock farms, to start the development of manure treatment, which took place at a national risk at that time, and this was a serious item, this was a lot of 100 billion. I add that, of course, the European Union accepted it, because the Hungarian policy of support had to be adapted to the regulations, and it was bound to a certain deadline when these investments should be ready. I now believe that there would have been no risk to the government if, for example, the agri-environmental management system had continued and a programme that would otherwise only make sense if it had been continuous. This program has been cut off. And now we're looking at a draft with no ears and no tail to put it short. So obviously this draft will not be the final programme. That's what we're looking at on the MVH website. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] You can also see that what developed in the MVH is the scandalous leadership mafia that is sticky, because now young farmers have done something similar to fictitious addresses, not real qualifications certificates. And you have to pay attention to that, because it doesn't work by slamming 16 young men's foreheads, and it says that we're about to sign in to one of these farms, and we're going to apply for every 12 million forints from there. This works by organising it, ladies and gentlemen, and in order to organise it, we need the networks that everyone is openly talking about, which candidate is connected to in the ministry. I think we need to get this over with very quickly, because it's gonna be a terrible mess for the financial cycle we're about to start. I'll be happy to give that information to people who care, but I might just have to hand it over to someone who's involved. What I would only mention in furry terms, and then my colleagues will look into it, is that it is incomprehensible to us that the 38.3 billion-dollar plan, which covers the environmental target, has only become 18.3 billion. There's obviously a sane explanation for that. Current expenditure, which was actually reduced by 3 billion, was blocked and then returned, but instead of using it for the original purpose, international membership fees were paid. It's farmers' money, I'd like to say. This has been allocated to finance sectors in distress. The national grants range, there is such a complete line, it is 66.2 billion, of which 51.4 became delivery. There's an explanation for that, because he's stuck in the compensation fund for 6 billion forints. You can see they're only paying in there, but no one can take you out of it. So money can only be left in this if the system is broken because there have been a lot of damage events, and I think I don't have to go through all of them, but if no one has access to the source, that means that this needs to be changed urgently. By the way, even if I deduct this, I'm missing 9 billion forints, which I couldn't find, so I just don't have a reason. What was very famous, very, very, very well-built program was the measurement of undivided common areas. I'm reporting that this is where we managed to use the 2012 cost, with all the rest of the remaining remains in the budget by 2.2 billion. It's a failure, the government has to admit that. The pig program is also a failure. Here they say 100,000 increases, true, they took off 600 million even of those 2 billion, which are very few, but it is also certain that that money is only left or became that extra 100,000 pigs because the stock has become white because of the VAT reduction. To sum up the assessment: it seems that instead of great propaganda and the great horse-zungs - we heard only yesterday from the Minister at the subcommittee meeting - we should now work slowly and try to put together a Hungarian agricultural and rural policy so that it will actually be rural development and not rural destruction. Obviously, I can't say that we're in favour of this account. We encourage the government to deal with the problems I have listed, VAT and others, which are very urgent, because that is the point, the rest is just paint, which we have plenty of anyway. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-07-22	Thank you very much. Welcome. We'll get back to work. Mr Loránt Hegedűs, Congresswoman Jobbik, will now speak. Here you go.
u2015-10-07-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Given that my fellow Member has already said in general on behalf of the Jobbik faction that we have our opinion on the bill, the closing report last year, I would like to go further with regard to certain numbers, and I am trying to put in a strong quotation mark the expression that we heard from János Hargitai, that the government has carried on a cautious management over the course of last year. First and foremost, the budget of the municipalities, i.e. Annex IX. I would like to talk to you about this chapter, and I would like to express a few questions and concerns about its content. First of all, I have to say that we can see that from what was adopted by the House in the budgetary law at the time, i.e. the 2014 Budget Act, what little has actually been achieved with regard to local governments, i.e. with regard to the municipal sub-scheme. First of all, we need to see that the general operating framework has saved a lot of money from the government. This was typically the case in the case of individual income support, since, by restructuring the aid scheme, by creating the concept of municipal aid, the government shifted a huge responsibility and weight to the local government, it practically withdrew from this area, and we can see in the budgets of individual municipalities what a significant additional burden this means. The other is the envelope for centralised appropriations. Here, too, the government saves significantly, of course, and obviously not on the benefits of small favourites, as they are met in the letter as set out in Annex 3 to the Finance Act, but at the same time the government could save significantly on the support of the public utility development contribution, wage compensation, compensation for revenue losses due to e-tolls. Speaking of salary compensation, I can't not mention it here, it's still the issue of civil servant's salary. Dear Secretary of State, This is a recurring problem in the life of local government offices. Walking around the countryside, in consultation with mayors and notaries, I have to say that the officials who have done a great deal of work are in a very vulnerable position who are trying to carry out the tasks left by the government at the municipal offices after the establishment of the district system. We see that this is a very disproportionate system, there is serious imbalances, the system of district offices, the burden of district offices on municipal offices is much less proportional. At the same time, the wages of those working here, i.e. those working in municipal offices, should be imagined as more than hunger, but less than living. People who have a diploma often earn less than 100,000 forints, work 8-10 hours a day with extraordinary responsibility and decades of experience behind them. If these people go abroad, they'll only go a few miles across the border, say picking tomatoes, they'll be looking for three times that. Is that what the government wants? I don't think so. These people should be kept there as the intellectuality of the countryside in these offices, this knowledge they possess, should be saved for the future. But I'll keep going. It is surprising and regrettable that support for the development of the European Union has saved significant amounts of government, 16 billion out of 17 billion, and we can see in the force majeure framework that almost 5 billion were used instead of the 7,7 billion originally planned. I would like to note here, Mr Secretary of State, and I would very much ask you to convey this request to the government, that it is also the imposition of the force majeure framework itself, so that the Government decree, which provides precisely for the use of this amount, is not good. The thing is, if I use a lifelike example to support this problem, that if a heavy rain washes away a path, it is possible to apply for force majeure to rebuild this path. But the nature of the water is that if it rains again, it will fall down again, washing away the same path again. [[12.10]] So we should not just be financing recovery from this, we should be financing the right solution. So it's a solution that doesn't mean any more and more spending in the subsequent periods. Therefore, the situation of force majeure could be proved, if a good solution could be used to replace an old bad situation, which always causes new and new problems, then perhaps this amount would not be unduly paid. It's not the Parliament's job, it's the government's job to make some kind of amendment in the wording of the government decree. I'm going to have to say that if the entire IX. We will look at the chapter, then these savings we have just said mean some HUF 58 billion, and yet the government has spent 8 billion more on this sector. This difference of 50 billion is, in a sense, made through personalised applications and personalised grants. I don't dispute these rights. I am quite certain that there is an office behind your back that has looked at these amounts, which, if any, have been assessed by means of a tender, where appropriate, by means of individual decisions, and has decided exactly how much to go to. At the same time, I dispute that when Parliament produces a budget law, we too have the right to decide on this very significant amount - I say once again, we are talking about HUF 50 billion - not to see what it has done through the closing account. Let me give you an example, because I can't miss it, because for some reason it seems particularly interesting to me. Hódmezővásárhely's investments in real estate were worth HUF 200 million to the government last year. We know that this is still small change compared to what you will receive this year, because it will be 1.2 billion forints. I assume that other municipalities also have real estate investments, so I think that it might have been worth bringing this item to Parliament even at the time, in the debate on the budget bill. At the same time, if we are looking at this 50 billion item, we should see that this was partly transferred from 113 billion of extraordinary government measures for HUF 6.3 billion. I would have tried to see that this 113 billion - to move on to a next item - was spent on exactly what exactly, and the detailed report contains countless specifics, but also quite a lot of generals that would once again call for further detail and justification. For example, the fact that the Prime Minister's additional tasks have been paid three times, for example 500 million, then 3.1 billion, and then 284 million. I think that this total amount of more than HUF 4 billion would also be worth a few thoughts, a few sentences, where appropriate, from the Secretary of State, as to why and why the Prime Minister's Office, otherwise having a very significant budget, spent HUF 4 billion on additional tasks. The other is the idea and problem associated with extraordinary government measures. I know that in this matter, personally, the Secretary of State, in order to help my clarity, I have been very much helped in the past, and believe me that I am not jumping on this item by accident, which I am about to say. I think that this problem, like the sea in a drop, shows that the whole budget law, but even the accounts itself, the debate in Parliament is practically a joke. In fact, the money goes to what you want, and for us, simple, pious Members of Parliament, our insights and our insights can be little. And this is the City Park project, which I'd like to ask you about. Originally, we opened in 2014 with a total of HUF 10 million for this very, very important task. Suddenly, this amount increased to more than HUF 3 billion during the year, and after that it also made further changes. In any case, overall, we need to see that from the chapter itself - namely, Section XX. It was included in the EMMI chapter - overall, according to your accounts, HUF 2.6 billion was spent. But of the extraordinary government measures, 3 billion forints. First of all, I would like to ask the Honourable Secretary of State to go out to City Park and look around, to think about what we saw there a year ago, and to think about what is there now, or to see what is there, and to see that there is absolutely no difference between last year's state, let's say, at the beginning of 2014 and the present state. We need to ask ourselves what the hell you spent more than five billion forints on. I'm thinking Városliget Zrt. Hire an office from an offshore company? Or to put out more and more design contests to ruffle the common taste? Because we know that there have been design contests and winning design contests that cause a serious conflict in the ordinary citizen. I would add that none of the successful candidates have ever signed a contract. [[István Tukacs intervenes.]] Yeah, yeah, and in the meantime, there's a turnaround that's not really where these buildings are going to be. [[To Banai Péter Benő:]] I can see you're looking at those chapter books with a lot of enthusiasm. I'll help you. Please note that in Chapter I, the word "liget" is not included. So it's safe to close it. This would have included HUF 113 billion of extraordinary government measures, so this does not include the word "liget". If you're going to take out Chapter V, which contains the EMMI, well, it's there, but it's as follows. It doesn't include a penny of what this total cost of 5 billion forints was spent on. It's about a 10-15 line, and the problem they're showing us is that it's been declared a priority case, and the restoration center, the so-called OMRRK, has certain authority issues that have a problem with it. That's what it's about. So there's not a word about spending 5 billion forints. I would like to ask you with deep respect, Mr State Secretary, because I have received assistance in this regard last time to do so, to deliver me, even through the Committee on Budgets, a list, a report on what we are actually talking about. Because believe me, I'll tell you honestly, the problem is that if you look at this 5 billion forint, for example, if you look at just one small settlement problem, you would really need it. When you look at the state of the inland roads, how the inter-urban transport system has been destroyed and empty, how people are unable to approach their own jobs, or when you look at the state of the institutions in a small settlement, or whether we can look at the state of health or the situation of education, so this money would all be desperately needed. Just like that - and that will be my final thought - if we look at the game tax and the concession fee, since I don't have the time, let me just think about it. Why can't a vassal be generously supported by the government? Let us now call this vassal Andy Vajna for simplicity. This raises a problem, not because the government wants to support someone, but because what you will receive from you this year and in 2014 is the many, many billion forints of concession prizes from gambling tax, the many, many billions, for the aforementioned problem, let's say, to support small settlements, how good would that be, Mr. Secretary of State? Why doesn't the government spend it on it? Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-07-24	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Mr Péter Benő Banai asked for the floor before speaking with his representatives. Here you go. [[12.20]]
u2015-10-07-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs made specific questions, but let me say that my first thought should be that, I was somewhat surprised to hear the opposition speeches that everything went wrong in 2014, although there was growth, but thanks to one-off factors, it was not sustainable, and I was surprised to hear this, when yesterday the International Monetary Fund changed the growth prospects of the Hungarian economy to 3 percent, and next year to 2.5 percent, in line with government expectations. It did so when it reported growth slowing down at the global economy as a whole and changed the global economy's growth rates downwards. I find it difficult to find words when we talk about the continued expansion of real wages, not just in one sector, but everywhere. In 2014, there was a substantial real wage increase among the poorest people at the minimum wage, and employment continued to grow. These are the facts, Congresswoman and Congressmen, which need to be looked at. Again, I would like you to look at the international data. If everything is so bad, how could it have been that real wages and employment have also increased and that macro-economic indicators - growth, deficit, public debt - have evolved well? But to get to the specific points raised by the congresswoman, I am a little embarrassed again, because Mr Dániel Z. Karpát spoke of little information. Literally, the congressman said that the government provided the Parliament with a modest mass of information. Then, from the benches of Jobbik, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs also says that we give little information. Well, honourable Members, this document is around 12 kilograms, which the government has submitted to Parliament for the use of public funds. In addition to this mass of documents, a number of additional detailed information is available on government websites. I always say that this mass of data is difficult to look at for a Member, but there are summary tables in one page that show the real economic and public finances processes, and if you want details, you can find the necessary information in this data mass. Congresswoman also looked at the items related to the use of the Liget project. In the first place, it must be said that the Congresswoman knows, and I think we all know that the realisation of an investment does not begin with the start of building the foundations. First there is a planning phase, there is a procurement phase, there is a conciliation phase, and when they are completed, you can start physical execution. We all know that a significant proportion of large investments, 10-15 percent, relate to planning expenditure. This is not a Liget project specific, it is investment-specific. But if the data is not sufficient, the government will provide, as you know, the necessary information on the use of public funds for additional questions. In this way, I can promise Mrs President that, as before, when she had a question, and at that time I and other actors in the government have tried to make information available, we will continue to do so in the future. So, if this information does not contain the answers to your questions, then, of course, the possibility of further questioning is open, and I repeat, we will provide the answers to each forint according to our best knowledge, using public money. I would also like to draw attention to the specific issues raised by the Commissioner on the sources of the municipal chapter that, yes, there has been substantial savings in several expenditure appropriations, such as income replacement subsidies or wage compensation. You have to see why. Was there a saving because the government was distracted from these sources, or perhaps because more people had jobs than planned, and real wages increased at a higher rate, and therefore less aid was needed to be paid? Congresswoman, that's what happened. With regard to the support of municipalities, let me say that in 2014 the year we are talking about has resulted in a significant debt consolidation of nearly HUF 70 billion. Here again, I would like to attach the Z. Carpathian to what was said by Daniel the betterman. I'm saying this because he claims the state apparatus has spent too much on you. If you look at page 278 of the main document presented in this modest mass of information, it will be shown in detail what state expenditure the Member has found to be high. This includes, for example, the sum of HUF 68.7 billion of municipal debt consolidation or the capital injection of EUR 18 billion from Eximbank or the amount of EU funds used in the framework of ÁROP, EKOP. I think that all the issues that have been raised by Members are, in many cases, included in the budget proposal, are included in the discharge proposal, and if we look at them in detail, I think that many misunderstandings can be clarified. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-07-26	Thank you very much. We will continue with the representatives' comments. Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is next, MSZP.
u2015-10-07-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, First of all, I would like to reply to the Secretary of State with one sentence: we do not believe that the kilo determines the content. You can say kilos, but the content is not directly proportional to it. That's what we can say. Even at the time of the proposal on the 2014 budget, we have already said that we have a new budgetary impression of selective social policy ahead of us. A budget that primarily gives more money to better families and gives others something. We also said that there would be further poverty in the freezing of aid, which has been particularly marked by changes in GDP for social aid. The government has drawn additional funds from the worst-off social groups, including the disabled and the poorer families with children. If you look at the closing account, I would just like to list a few items of how much the government has spent on them in proportion to GDP, according to the 2013 and 2014 accounts. Education activities and services remained at 5.4 percent compared to the previous year. Expenditure on health has decreased from 4.6 percent to 4.4 percent of GDP. Social security and welfare services have been reduced from 17.6% to 15.7 percent; sickness, maternity or temporary invalidity benefits from 1.6 per cent to 1.4 per cent; pensions from 9.8 per cent to 9.1 per cent; unemployment benefits from 0.8 per cent to 0.3 per cent. Family allowances and child benefits from 1.8 per cent to 1.6 per cent; other social benefits from 1.6 per cent to 1.3 per cent. More than social and welfare institutional services, wage compensation has been made, and here we can see an increase from 1.3 percent to 1.7 percent. Support for housing, municipal and community activities and services decreased from 1.6 per cent to 1.5 per cent. It was an item that jumped quite nicely, this is entertainment, cultural and religious activities and services, which rose from 1.6 per cent in GDP to 1.8 per cent. Support for welfare functions has decreased from 30.9 percent to 28.7 percent compared to the previous year. It is planned that public finances would have spent 58.5 percent of consolidated functional expenditure on welfare functions. In comparison, only 54.7 percent of these expenditures were spent by the government. Then I quote your words, Mr. Secretary of State: if everything is so good, how can the government's spending on welfare expenditure be constantly reduced in proportion to GDP? [[12.30]] The state would have spent 29,54 percent of GDP on welfare functions in 2014, education, health care, social benefits, and so on. The data show that the government has not only spent less on welfare expenditure than planned, but also less than in 2013. While in 2013 the state spent 30.9% of GDP on welfare expenditure, in fact only 28.7 percent in 2014. This change is mainly due to a reduction in expenditure on social policy, social benefits - pensions, family support, unemployment benefits. Here, compared to the 2013 performance - 17.7 per cent - and 16.7 per cent compared to the plan - this was only 15.7 per cent. In particular, we have seen a sharp reduction in social security benefits, unemployment benefits and social assistance. The nominal figures show this even more vividly: regular HUF 162, HUF 139 and HUF 61 billion, Mr Secretary of State. Now, let's talk about family support. It is worth pointing out that the justification of the 2014 budget bill specifically covered population policy measures, and that, in the case of care support, a higher number of staff is likely to be increased as a result of the transformation of family support, we have read. The allocation of the family allowance was missed by less than in 2013 and reduced by 9 billion, while the amount of the aid was not in principle changed. Baby bond estimates also show a great underachievement, with 23 percent less budget resources than planned, which was even less than the amount of 2013. In spite of the fact that the implementation of the Gyed extra package was high, the implementation of the measure was lower than the 2013 fact. Thus, the state spent 8.5 billion forints less than what was included in the estimate. The childcare fee also resulted in a lower performance of HUF 2.2 billion, but it increased by more than HUF 10 billion compared to the previous year, which is also related to the introduction of the ged extra package. The amount of child-pregnancy allowance amounted to HUF 41.4 billion, which, in turn, exceeded the appropriation by HUF 3.9 billion. In 2014, the government finally took a step forward with regard to family tax relief. We criticized a great deal on the part of the Hungarian Socialist Party who could benefit from this family tax relief. We have always said that it provides more income for families in a better way than for low earners, and that in 2014, the government itself acknowledged that family tax benefits can be used from health contributions and pension contributions. Here I would like to read a few sentences from a 2014 self-religious research conducted by the Tarki. In 2014, Tarki's researchers examined the number of children who benefit from the family tax allowance through self-restraint research. It turns out that 40 percent of children live in households where the total amount can be drawn, only partially used at 20 percent, but not at all after the other 40 percent children. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The same thing was broken down by child count. Among those with 1-2 children, there are many who could not take advantage of the tax reduction at all, half of the families with 4 or more children, one third of those with 3 children, were eliminated. According to the research, the poorest 20 percent of society receives 40 percent of the family allowance, and it is clear that families with children are in a worse income situation than their population. Sociologist Júlia Szalay said: approx. a small third of the families are badly affected by the government's family policy, 40 percent of the impact is neutral, 40 percent of the impact, Mr. Secretary of State, neutral, has no impact, the top 30 percent is particularly beneficial, and the remaining 30 percent And it's definitely bad. We can say that 70 percent of you can't do any good with your family support. Based on recent research, the specialist believes that the poor are in a worse situation and that child poverty is increasing. According to him, it is not expected that this process will stop in this government cycle. For example, child support and community service should be redesigned, but there is no intention on the part of the government. This was not said by us, but derived from the survey of Tarki and the survey of sociologists. In the social and child welfare system, the role of municipalities remained essentially the provision of cash benefits and basic benefits. The additional aid granted in 2013 has also been included in this area. In addition to the 2014 basic funding, the support for day care has been put on a new basis and the additional funding has been provided. In addition, under a new title, small settlements could receive additional support to perform various social tasks and thus meet their obligation to supply. This can be read in the report. I would like to mention here in a sentence that the kindergarten care fee was introduced by the Fidesz-KDNP government. In 2014, a task-based support scheme was introduced to finance children's meals. This year, local authorities combined support for social, child welfare and child catering tasks in a budget line. Here, it was difficult to see figures during the year that, say, in September 2014 from this budget line, 20 billion HUF was immediately transferred to the debt management of KLIK, out of the support for social, child welfare and child feeding tasks. We kept asking how this was thought, and now, from the accounts, it turns out that, after all, this 20 billion forints was taken from the relief system, not from the children's meal. By the way, the withdrawal of the relief system also affects families, and also the withdrawal of support for children's meals. But at least now we've found out which line and item the 20 billion was taken from the giga organization. It took more than a year to find out. The explanatory memorandum states that the central budget provided HUF 52.6 billion in support of the organisation of the task, with an additional HUF 38.1 billion coming from institutional operating revenues. Thus, 87 percent of the total operating expenditure of HUF 103.8 billion was covered by institutional own revenue and state aid. Within the framework of the programme against child poverty, 1270 municipalities requested the provision of the summer meals, and here we said several times in 2014 that the amount for the summer social meals had not been increased by the Fidesz-KDNP government since 2010. Then in 2014 we managed to raise it from HUF 2.4 billion to HUF 2.64 billion. We also asked the government to criticise the tender system that you introduced, so it was resolved by 2015. We kept saying that it should be considered that for the summer social catering, we know that 550 thousand children will receive some kind of support, on a need-to-know basis, it would be possible to say to the government that if the budget figures are so good that this 500,000 children have basically provided their summer social meals. And it could be extended to breaks, winter break, fall break, spring break. [[12.40]] In 2014 it was only possible to achieve that this support was increased by a tiny bit, by HUF 240 million. I have very little time now. I have already told you that HUF 20 billion was transferred to KLIK in 2014 from the amount for children, and at the end of the year HUF 2.6 billion were still recovered from this budget line, HUF 770 million was given to BMI to finance government infocommunications services, and HUF 2 billion was transferred to support local government developments to increase public security. In my next 15 minutes, I will continue, Mr Secretary of State, because there is much more to say on the social issue. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-07-28	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It's a two-minute lap. I can see Mr. Secretary's application, but I've already given you the floor, and then I'd like you to come forward. Mrs. Loránt Violin in two minutes, please.
u2015-10-07-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply to my previous comment, and I would like to apologise specifically for the fact that, in addition to a budget of 16 000 billion, I am here to pick on you with a loose 5 billion. But believe me, I'm doing it because of the fact that these five billion come together, and ultimately, this is the 16 000 billion, and I think that we have a right and a duty to ask even small details where appropriate. If 12 kilos didn't fit into this 5 billion, the 5 billion I've asked, then I'm asking you to have a 13-pound, and that should be specified. And don't tell me that the fact that we think a lot about a project, a lot of newspaper articles are published, we put out a lot of applications, 5 billion forints can be spent! 5 billion forints is spent in a city of 30,000 in a year. A new Pancho Arena could be built from 5 billion forints to say nothing else. Wouldn't it have been worth a Pancho Arena revamped in the middle of, say, City Park? But in our understanding, it appears that there is no trace of it. Go out to City Park, take a look around, and there's no sign of him. From the 20th part of that, the green surface could have been renovated with spectacular results. And I'll add one more thing: yes, the 30 billion I was talking about, the income support, that was a net withdrawal. If you like to look at municipal budgets, then yes, there is about the same amount of expenditure under the heading of municipal aid. So, yes, it has been saved in the municipalities, and debt consolidation, I beg you, do not tell me again, because this debt consolidation has become a public debt, we are paying it in the same way, but we have to pay the 20 percent debt of Lajos-Debrecen from Kósa in Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-07-30	Thank you. Congressman Jenő Manninger, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2015-10-07-31	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I'd like to respond briefly. Here among the lead speakers, I believe that there was such a competition that it could say something greater on the part of the MSZP, and Bertalan Tóth probably won this competition when he claimed that Fidesz had driven the country into poverty. I think he is not so young that they should not remember that if the data he listed - and obviously Fidesz could not solve all the problems, all the social problems - he compares them with the situation before 2010, then he should see this situation more self-critically. So it is said that before 2010, there was a failed economic policy, and then there was a successful economic policy, on which many problems were solved; not everything, so not everything from the situation created by the socialists. I think that, in particular, the representatives of the socialists should show much more restraint in this situation. There is no doubt that the amount of welfare expenditure is lower in the budget, but it must be seen that this is because a very large part of welfare expenditure does not appear in the budget, but in the economic data. Thus, the benefits of public employment and tax relief do not appear there, we are talking in the tax incentives, in 14 we are talking about 14 we can deduct from those contributions, there has been a significant improvement, so hopefully it will improve these statistics, which apply to the lower income layers. So it is obvious, it is possible to argue and to argue about how the various sections of society are affected by this, but the only point is that the budget of 14 shows that there has been much more food for children than in previous years. Indeed, 2015 is the real year of real progress, and we can do even more in 16 on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-07-32	Thank you very much. Congressman Nándor Gúr, two minutes, MSZP!
u2015-10-07-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, I asked for two minutes because my fellow Member Jenő Manninger's sentences are virtually without what has been happening behind us for the last five years. You're not looking at socialist party statistics, you're looking at research, no. Look at the many researches of independent researchers that deal with these issues; look even at the research carried out by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences or the research carried out by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and then you will be confronted with the fact that what you have just said is contrary to what you think you are discovering in these researches. And I suppose, in fact, I dare say, based on my experience, that the data contained in those researches is fact data. Unfortunately, poverty has deepened in Hungary over the past six years. A lot of people are on the stage of poverty, and these people can't find your hands, because you're hiding this behind them. They don't get a helping hand. They do not receive the type of subsidies, I do not mean financial support that would put them back in the position that would give them the opportunity to live a normal, decent life and raise their children. Public employment alone is not enough for this. I'll give you more details on this and I'll back up why I didn't. I would just like to say that it is okay for them to be able to face real facts and incorporate them into the political thinking of the coming period, beyond their biased internal propaganda. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-10-07-34	Thank you. Before we continue with the comments of the representatives, the representative of the government will give his opinion. Secretary of State, please.
u2015-10-07-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I have the impression that a single element is being taken out of the budget by several Members and that the overall opinion that has now been expressed by Mr Nándor Gúr and, in advance, by Mr Zoltán Gőgös, that there is continuous positive propaganda, which is not supported by the facts. That's what I don't think is true. I respectfully ask everyone that the official data submitted by the Government, which was formally reviewed by the State Audit Office, have been verified for their authenticity, the data reported by the Hungarian authorities, the international organisations and organisations which have verified them and then made them public, should be taken seriously. These figures show that after 2010, the increase in public debt has been halted. Moreover, public debt is constantly declining in proportion to GDP. These figures show that employment is constantly increasing in Hungary. These figures show that real wages continued to increase substantially in 2014. I could continue the line, but I'm asking everyone to take these facts seriously first. Looking at the facts, Bangóné Borbély [[Interviews from the lines of the MSZP, including: Ildikó. His name is Ildikó.]] Let me respond to Mrs Ildikó's comments and I am pleased that she has looked at the amount of welfare expenditure in particular. Then we know that unemployment expenditure is included within this block. We know that within this block social expenditure is included, and we know that if employment is increased, unemployment expenditure will be reduced. [[12.50]] Let me highlight another significant item. Retirements. In proportion to GDP, total pension expenditure has indeed fallen from 2013 to 14 compared to 2013. And what's behind the numbers? Behind the figures, pensions increased nominally by 2.4 percent, inflation was negative, minus 0.2, resulting in a 2.6 percent increase in the real value of pensions. Congresswoman, you remember a time when the total nominal amount of pensions paid was reduced. It was before 2010, and you know it. Now both the nominal amount of pensions and the real value of pensions have increased by 2.6 percent, real value. At the same time, GDP growth was even higher. This is why, as you said, a number of expenditure items have decreased in proportion to GDP. But I ask you, Congresswoman, would it be better if Hungary had chosen a different economic policy and, like some European countries, we saw that its economy was still falling, that its unemployment was still increasing? Let's go see Greece. He has unemployment of over 20 percent and his GDP has fallen. I would report that if the Hungarian government had not chosen the economic policy it chose in 2010, we might be in a similar situation and you could say that welfare spending is increasing because more and more people have to pay unemployment benefits. So with respect, I'm asking you to look behind the numbers. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Looking!]] The same applies to the assumption that the whole budget was true and not an election budget, which was said. We know what the election budget means in Hungary. In 2002, 2006 the deficit-to-GDP ratio was 9 per cent or more. Compared to this, the budget deficit was reached at 2.6 per cent instead of 2.9 per cent. So if you look at the overall picture, you have to interpret the individual numbers within this. I agree with the Mrs Jobbik that the whole budget is made up of parts. That is why I said that if the information that the Government has made available to the Honourable Parliament is insufficient, the Government will provide further information on the individual details to Members in all respects. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-10-07-36	Thank you. We'll go back to the representatives' contributions. Congressman Nándor Gúr is next, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-10-07-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me to begin by saying that Minister Varga missed Parliament today. It's not random, because he's had revelations over the past few years that could have been confronted with. He sent Mr. Tállai, Secretary of State, who gave a high-profile pro-government speech, and then Mr. Tállai left Parliament and left Mr.Péter Benő Banai, Secretary of State, who will try to answer the unpleasant questions posed by the opposition. [[Dr. János Harghitai: It won't be difficult for him!]] It's okay, it's just, you know, one doesn't come here, the other says something, and the third says something, if not the opposite, but you can say something different between the walls of Parliament. So there's no process in the story. The other part is that when we talk about the 2014 budget discharges, we can obviously look at the events of a given year, and we may even get ahead of things a little bit, and we might also look at what's coming. If you're looking at 14 I'll tell you how we see it. If we extend the time horizon a bit, I would like to tell you that no one suffers from selective amnesia, for example, that there was a global financial economic crisis in 2008 before the 2010 government change. Unfortunately, this also had negative effects on Hungary. In every way. So I'd like to take down the baselines, the stakes, so that's fair. The benchmarks should not always be made for the year of a previous government within the framework of the worst conditions, but in a different period, then a governing party is correct, and it is worth comparing its own bearing with the initial and, where appropriate, current-day processes. In light of that, Mr. Secretary, as you have said, I shall begin by saying that it is sovereign debt. You pushed him first, you said you'd keep him on the level. [[Péter Banai Benő: Fall!]] Yes, you can. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Because you know that in 2010, the amount of public debt was about HUF 20 000 billion, and below it, and you know that it is now 2015 when the amount of government debt is above HUF 25 000 billion, with HUF 5000 billion more. You can say anything. Five thousand billion forints more. Do you know how much that is? That's 5 million million forints! You know what I'm just saying it because the numbers speak for themselves. On the other hand, I would also like to add that if it is a public debt, after 2010, this government confiscated some HUF 3000 billion of private pension savings from people. With regard to the use of this, we could look into what happened, say, what kind of shares were purchased in the order of magnitude, MOL shares worth HUF 500 million, at what price level they were purchased and what these shares represent today. And then you'll have to look at what this happened in terms of responsible farming. I don't want to say many other examples. I said these only with an indication because if I take this 3000 billion HUF confiscation on the basis of an increase of HUF 5000 billion and the tax surplus imposed in 2011-12 for the previous year, which amounts to HUF 2 and a half thousand billion, we are already facing an additional burden of HUF 10 thousand billion, while the government debt is showing growth trends and trends. Well, so much for public debt. In addition, it is possible to say in one sentence that the government debt is falling by zero percentage points from 2013 to 2014. Of course, this is also a sentence that is correct, and it is also correct, as I have always said before, what additional burdens are imposed, what funds are confiscated, and the government debt increases by HUF 5000 billion in your period of government. Now, let's not get caught up in a lot of government debt. Let's look at the actual processes that have taken place in 2014! We are lucky with regard to 2014. I am thinking of Hungary as a whole. We are lucky because, in practice, this year, the EU's money payments have peaked. It's true that it was an election year, but, hell, the point is that we're lucky, there are high-end financial payments, some HUF 2000 billion in payments. It is not random that there will be a tangible increase in investments. Thank God! However, I would like to say that the use of the resources of the European Union, which you have so much scorned, brings all this. We're lucky! We are lucky because agriculture has a good year behind it in 2014. I don't have to tell you any details, you know that. But if we have to, let's discuss it in terms of terms. We're lucky because we're facing money market abundance. Practically everyone in the world of money is giving their money in terms of housing this year. We're so lucky. We are in great luck because this year the world market prices for oil and gas are virtually halving. You do know, Mr Péter Banai Benő, how much the world market price for oil and gas is, say, in terms of GDP growth? If you don't know, I'll help you with my next comment. I would like to say that, in addition to all of this, when we are able to involve this magnitude, thank God, European Union funds, when agriculture has a positive year behind it, when there is money market abundance, when the world market prices for oil and gas are virtually halving, then a 3 1/2 percent increase in GDP cannot be regarded as a very high achievement. In this government work, engagement is not very bright. This is the result of so many external effects that had a positive impact on Hungary in 2014. I wish that was the case every year. [[13.00]] Now, let's look at the process of the story. Let's take a look at the process. What happens after 2014, because whether everything we are talking about in 2014 is sustainable is actually a question. After 2014, our economy is slowing down. Our economy is slowing down, in practically 2015 we get to 2.4 percent growth in the second quarter of 2015 and to the last place in the region. We have reached the point that while the Czechs have 4.4 percent, Romanians have 3.7 percent or even Slovaks have 3.1 percent growth, Hungary becomes an inflator and there is a 2.4 percent increase. And what is expected for 2016? We're still slowing down. Now, what I would like to say, Mr Secretary of State, is that a government is doing well in its activities - and you have been ruling for the sixth year now - if it is able to bring to life a state in its process, with a trend character, which is gradually and increasingly growing in terms of GDP growth, from year to year, from 14 to 15 to 16 and increasing in relation to the years to come. Mr Tállai, State Secretary, spoke of a successful economic policy, a growing career. This is the growing track that I have seen above, the direction is practically the slope, so a negative growth, only that negative word has been forgotten, Mr. Secretary of State. The Secretary of State speaks of an increase in consumption of 1.8 per cent, namely the increase in wages, which you said earlier. Now, I'd like to remind you of the following. No, Gur, no, no, NAV, National Tax and Customs, you know this institution that's going to be reopened. Mr Tállai, Secretary of State, must have more knowledge in this regard, but I am sure you can resolve this question, which I am now asking you. If we are talking about an increase in wages, then how can a country - I am talking about Hungary - be a situation in which, on the basis of the National Tax and Customs Office's statements, account is taken of tax returns exceeding 1.3 million people who earn minimum wage or less? How can it be that, after considering the same tax returns, we have the picture that 2.2 million people are earning below the minimum living? Yeah, well, of course, they're going to deny the minimum amount of living today, and they're going to liquidate it, so that there's no basis for comparison compared to the previous period and any period, and that's shameful. And how does the situation develop, let's say, in the span of about five years, in the period of their government for the sixth year, where, for example, the most vulnerable people in the labour market - I am talking about public employees - have to live to the point that, compared to 2010, when they received HUF 60,200 net in their pockets, they now receive HUF 52,53,000, which, of course, if we take into account inflation in the average of five years, is worth HUF 40,000. In English: this two-thirds government, which he so proudly looked at and said a few thoughts about his work, has brought to life that these people, this hundreds of thousands of people, have actually earned their salary and income as a result of his work, can be photographed by the fact that this money is worth two thirds of the money of five years ago. He's using it to go shopping. How can you explain the situation where, while covering this country with posters - this is true for 2014, and if we take almost any year into account - and talk about the fact that the minimum wage is rising again, it is the case that employers and workers should pay a higher contribution? Overall, this is about HUF 32-33 thousand more, while five years after almost six years the net money that the minimum wage people take in their hands is worth HUF 5 thousand less than in 2010. You know that, but I'll tell you this, you have a degree that's good enough for you to follow the logic of the story. In 2010, these people took over HUF 60 200 net, today HUF 68 775. This is about 13 percent more net. You also know that the rate of inflation in the period between 10 and 15 was 18 per cent, if you count it down, you also know that this HUF 68 775 is thus worth about HUF 55 thousand compared to 2010. Is this your famous minimum wage increase? No, it's an infamous minimum wage increase. You know, that's when they think people are stupid, they're fooled, and they're trying to make them believe through the propaganda machine that they're living better. That's the shame. In fact, what they should be doing is helping people in this income category with both hands and trying to make their salaries worth more than they did five years ago. Of course, we could also say the public service workforce, who have had an unprecedented occurrence since the moment of the change of regime. The fact that there was no government, not even the first Orbán government, in which the civil servant's salary fund would not have increased during those four years. Now, during the period of the second and third Orbán governments, i.e. the sixth year of this salary fund has not changed for a single penny, this salary fund is HUF 38 650. It is unprecedented that during the period of two governments, during the four-year cycle, this is unchanged. I just wanted to say, and in the meantime, as I said, the minimum amount of living is no longer being shown, they want to deny it, so I just wanted to show in the introductory thoughts here in the first 10-15 minutes that they have something to account for in the coming period. We can talk more specifically about 2014 as well. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-10-07-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will be a two-minute round, first of all Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, MP Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-10-07-39	Mr President, Dear House, [[The congressman's mic isn't working.]] Once again, we feel a disturbance in the system.
u2015-10-07-40	Patience, the mic's coming.
u2015-10-07-41	[[They put a portable microphone in front of the congressman.]] Thank you so much for your help. So once again, I would like to say that the Secretary of State is busy doing his part in the debates. I very much appreciate that it is not the first time that you stand up during a debate with meaningful answers and comments and not only at the end of the conversation when you no longer have the opportunity to respond to it. So I wanted to tell you this, and I appreciate that in person. But I have to add that the fact that we are asking you for information about any information is in itself that we have a good chance of getting it, does not stand the test of truth in that if I, say, turn to you, either in such a direct way or in the form of a letter, and I ask you for a national inventory or a national inventory, you will not be able to present this to me despite your best intentions. There's a simple reason for that. In front of me lies 2010/172. Government Resolution No 1 where you have undertaken to request the Government to the Minister for National Development and the rest to ensure that the inventory is prepared by 31 December 2011. In other words, the family silver should have been combined to see how Hungary can farm, what reserves we have. In the absence of this, it is still not possible to know what real estate and movable property the State has, the extent to which its ownership in domestic and foreign enterprises is, sometimes less visible. So, overall, you are now trying to set up a budget, and you are going to make a closing statement about this by not knowing or even going on about our reserves: now, for example, you are selling and buying state land without, among other things, making clear how much of the state's assets. So in a rather amazing way, without the foundation of the process, we are asked to continue searching, to ask for information, to obtain further information; the fact is that a failure to comply with your decision does not provide the basis for this. [[13.10]] Therefore, my firm, not my request, but my demand is for you to put down this national inventory, a national inventory, to know what family silver is enough for. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The ultimate goal of this could be to increase it, and by no means to waste any of it. Thank you for the opportunity. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-07-42	Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is next in two minutes, MSZP.
u2015-10-07-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. According to an international civil society organisation on budgetary matters, the Hungarian budget is the most opaque in the EU and almost the whole OECD. Hungary received 49 out of 100 points in terms of budget transparency. With this, Hungary is listed at the lower end of the category, Mr Secretary of State. The lack of transparency in the budget is one of the hotbeds of corruption - experts from the international organisation can state. And why are the results so bad, Mr. Secretary? Because the objective of the Hungarian budget is also a terrible professional level. There is not a single page on the NGM's side where all the budget documents would be available. Budget information is found on poor quality websites, fragmented. In addition to the above, the closing account before us is a good indicator of the problems. The chapter of the EMMI is hundreds of pages, yet there is not a table of contents in the material. The chapter volume of the Pension Insurance Fund is available in even more detailed electronic format for Members only in a scanned pdf, so the material was printed and then scanned, from which a pdf was made. But it's a small mistake, Mr. Secretary. A bigger problem is that while there is still time to accept the closure, several government decisions have already provided for the use of the remains. Tell me, Mr. Secretary, how can this happen? Last time I checked, it was the 9th. The decision on the use of part of the budget and amending certain government decisions contained significant transfers in the Government Decision of 24 October 2006. Well, that's the problem with this accounts and this budget. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-10-07-44	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We are going back to the group of speakers announced in advance, including the speech by Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-10-07-45	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, First, let me make a comment to my fellow Member, Jenő Manninger. We have already learned in this House that anything that is wrong is still happening today because of socialist governments, after five years of two-thirds Fidesz governance. And so, if we are being called upon to be correct and to be realistic here, on opposition representatives, the pro-governments, let us add to this comment that before 2010, the government had to operate in the midst of an international economic crisis, and in today's period, we have to operate in a more favourable financial or international environment, so the figures are very difficult to compare, and, where appropriate, economic steps and circumstances. This would therefore be worth a fair debate, but since that is not the case, I would prefer to comment on this. Mr State Secretary, it could indeed be said that 2014 was a good budgetary outcome, and if you look at the surface of these data or the text itself, it would indeed be a valid statement. But I would say that we may be closer to reality and the truth if we say that this 2014 budget year is a good one, but - and it is very important that the government also listens to this word, and what follows, or what follows, because this will determine the future of the Hungarian economy and therefore also of Hungary. I would like to point out three things to the Secretary of State: what we are criticising for ourselves, to simplify it a little bit, because it seems difficult to explain that we are not just talking about the details, and the details support these three important critical questions. The first is the criticism of the closing account that we believe this track is not sustainable, that the numbers are not sustainable, that is, the positive numbers you write and talk about. In parentheses, not only is it not sustainable, but I have not read a study or analysis from Hungarian or foreign workshops that do not suggest this. Sustainability is, in our view, very important for a country, important for credit rating agencies, because due to the risks posed by sustainability, Hungary was not rated higher, but rather offered positive prospects. So we are saying that this good year is not sustainable, but the effectiveness of the data of this good year comes from one-off effects and a favourable external environment. The second important criticism - now a little simplistic - is who benefit from growth, so who benefited from the positive economic performance, of this 3.6 percent in Hungarian society, so who is the beneficiary of this growth, and in this, our criticism sounds to us that the privileged few, simplifying: the rich. So the inequality in Hungary has not decreased, even with a 3.6 percent economic growth, and even the inequalities in Hungary have increased, and my colleague Nándor Gúr has just referred to it here. The third criticism is the price of this economic policy in recent years and this year. What we see is that the quality of public services, its efficiency, and in many cases its functionality have been questioned, and here I am thinking about education, health, social expenditure or the pension system, and what I have just mentioned is that the cost of this was that inequalities have also increased. And if you allow me, Mr Secretary of State, I refer back to this inequality because inequality is not only important from a social policy point of view, there are many analyses, from the IMF to the World Bank - Nobel Prize winners also today share this position almost as mainstream - that if there are large income differences in a country, it will also have a negative impact on economic growth. Therefore, what would be the right economic policy, in order to reduce inequalities, and this will then have a positive impact on the performance of the Hungarian economy. So allow me, Mr Secretary, to list one reason for each of the critical remarks I have listed. Several times it was said that these one-off positive effects would probably not be repeated. I, too, would like to refer to the use of EU funds which has been significantly rolled up. The election year must have played a part in this, but this HUF 1845 billion, which has been paid from EU funds, will not be repeated again, both the available resources will be reduced and the dynamics will be different. Hungary was able to generate this economic growth, while these EU funds in other countries of the region only complemented other incoming capital and investments, i.e. foreign working capital investment, and here it was a substitute role, so these EU funds played a substitute role in Hungary instead of a complementary role. The second is that the agricultural sector has indeed performed well this year, which is also due to favourable weather conditions. That is why agriculture has had a truly prominent, good economic year. In addition, the automotive industry, the automotive investment, have also made a significant contribution to this growth. We can now add in parentheses what the Minister said that Hungary will not be affected by the Volkswagen Group scandal, I think that was a hasty statement. It is worth preparing - and it has also been rightly stated by the government that I should not only be critical - so we need to switch a little from this monocultural industrial production to a little more diverse production, because such a scandal can indeed affect the productivity of the Hungarian automotive industry and thus its pull-off nature, not to mention the political and other risks of the migration crisis. So I would just like to say that there was an extremely good agricultural year, that the investment in the automotive industry has pulled the economy, that we have been able to use a lot of resources from the European Union, and that we must add that there is or has been a favourable financial market environment, a favourable economic environment in Europe and the United States. But we also need to add that we see China's economy slowing down significantly, while the US Fed has now postponed it out of caution, but the interest rate increase is expected to affect this favourable international financial environment within six months. And overall, if we look at the predictions of the European Commission or any other company, analyst, then, as you have pointed out, the EU business is not improving, but is showing a worsening trend in the coming years. [[13.20]] However - a little back to the secretary of state for two minutes - I think it also gives the government some reason to think that Slovenia and Hungary are forecast to be the two countries whose growth is slowing down according to the European Union's economies. So this also indicates that there are two countries - and unfortunately one of them is Hungary - among all the countries that the Secretary of State has spoken about, which are slowing down in terms of economic growth, while the other countries in the region are still able to grow significantly. The world market prices for oil and gas have already been discussed - this trend has virtually halved, which is expected the following year. This also contributed to this situation, and this growth loan programme of the Hungarian National Bank could be a 0.2-0.4 percent plus in terms of economic growth. Let me mention one more thing: this is employment statistics. This is a major expert on my fellow Member, Mr Gur, and I am sure at first glance you can see very good data. After all, if we start from macroeconomic data alone, then the Hungarian unemployment rate has decreased, employment has increased, and it can be assumed that in the following year - if I remember correctly, 7.7 may go down to 7 percent of the forecast. So I'm pretty sure that at first glance, it looks like a very good figure, especially when compared to the Spaniards, the Greeks, whoever. But if we look a little behind this figure - and that's why I said at the beginning that this word "but" is important in my interpretation, so that we look good, but - we see that this is due to public work to a significant extent to the fact that the resources spent on public work and the number of people involved in this work have increased significantly, even if - let's be fair - the job creation in the economy has also taken place. However, basically, these figures are also linked to the fact that the EU labour market smokes people significantly; now I would not want to argue with numbers, but hundreds of thousands of people left Hungary, and also to a skilled, mobile, language-speaking workforce that would be significantly needed at home. As we hear about unemployment in many places, we also hear that there are fewer skilled workers, skilled workers, so that so-called structural unemployment has already emerged in many places, and we hear the leaders of large companies complain that they cannot find sufficient qualified Hungarian workers. In addition, we have been listening for five years to the fact that everything in vocational training has been fantastically put in place, fixed, but we see that this government initiative and policy do not meet the needs of companies, because I am always told by company managers that they need flexible, skilled workers. So it is almost less important what kind of professional subject they teach - of course this is not true either in this form - but it is very important that the particular workforce is able to develop, so that it can acquire the necessary innovations or knowledge within that company. That is why we say it, and again not only I say it, Mr Secretary of State Czomba, he is no longer a State Secretary, if I remember correctly, but he also said that this kind of public employment, a system of public workers, is more of a barrier to the creation of jobs in the real economy, and I think that the Minister of State was indeed right in this regard. And the reason why this direction is not good and I would add it to sustainability is because I am not at all pleased that Hungary will be a assembly plant, and that the policy of the Hungarian government is merely aimed at creating a less intelligent society, the less flexible, well-trained workforce in Hungary, and we - because the Prime Minister often talks about it, but doesn't do it - should indeed create a knowledge-based economy that enables the development, deployment and attraction of industries in Hungary, which means knowledge-intensive industries, which take into account not only the price of work or the price of labour in the long term, but also what added value they can produce. I have already talked about investment in a few sentences; the investor environment is still not favourable for Hungary, and it is not possible to talk about the inflow of foreign working capital, because if I remember correctly, there was an outflow of around 1 billion this year as well, and this is what the analyses will be around next year. One sentence is that we may not have talked much about personal income tax: we continue to say that this is an unfair tax system, which is now, not to mention that we are paying more taxes today than in 2010 that my fellow Member Jenő Manninger spoke about. Not to mention that the Prime Minister promised that there would be room for all kinds of tax returns for a beer mat, compared to this the government introduced 30-40 new tax codes, plus every 2-3 weeks, monthly changes, either the APEH bookings or some new rules, and even the largest tax advisors can't trace what the government changes and what the point of that change is. So I'm pretty sure stability is important in this, too. Resources from health care, education, pensions and social services were taken out in a thousand billion-dollar order. Although Fidesz MEPs are certainly forbidden to use this word, it is called austerity, a thousand billion-dollar scale of money from public services and a tax system, and with this cost reduction, they actually make even more difficult situations for those who are a part of society living in a worse situation, a smaller income and a smaller income. That is why we say that you are the government of the privileged few, the government of the rich, not the people who really need you. The competitiveness of Hungary has deteriorated, every year we move back one or two places, but it is also true that on the list of corruption Hungary either keeps its bad place stable or goes back. Yesterday I heard a shocking sentence from Minister Lazarus, and the Secretary of State might be able to answer that. Minister Lazarus said that the state is a bad farmer, so the land must be sold. But then, please, in the energy sector, is the state a good owner? In public services, is it okay for the state to own it? Isn't that where Fidesz management steals money from the company? Is it just in forestry and agriculture that the money is being stolen from Fidesz management? So it would be good if this were to happen with some consistency, some continuity, or some kind of red thread in what the government is talking about, because apparently they always define these questions on the basis of their own economic interests, the interests of fidesz buddies. As a last sentence, because I have very little time left: Ildikó Bangóné Borbély spoke about transparency, I think you do not want transparency anywhere. And at the end of the sentence, the revenue side is uncertain, and even the State Audit Office said that almost 47-50 percent of revenues are considered risky. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That is why I say that the word "but" has its place in this, and I also believe that opposition criticisms have its place in this. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2015-10-07-46	Thank you very much. We will continue with the preliminary speeches. Congressman Lajos Szűcs, Fidesz!
u2015-10-07-47	Your Honour, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, However, we are talking about the implementation of the 2014 budget, dear Attila Mesterházy, and here you have been talking about practically 2016, because both the issue of migration in the budget and the reduction of interest rates for Fed, both the Chinese slowdown and other things can be about 2016, and not in the least about 2014. It is a little strange to talk about what we think is transparent and what we do not think, because - although Attila Mesterházy is now fleeing - both the IMF, the European Union and credit rating agencies have said, with your help, things going up to hysteria, and yet they are forced to admit that the budget is transparent, the budget is reliable and it can be observed. There may have been less talk about this, but it's definitely important. They also admitted that they were wrong; you, dear Socialist Members, could once also admit that the budget that you have had a great deal of effort to prepare, yet it remained within the numbers, and it has even brought much more positive results in a number of items than we could have imagined. I don't think it's right for Attila Mesterházy to speak here, because those are taking away the 13th month's pension, the reduction of the rent. "The rise in inflation, and who knows, perhaps people know best what has happened during these times. [[13.30]] But let us mention, in effect, a few sentences that 2014 was an election year, and not an election budget was made here in the House. [[Ildikó Bangóné Barbély: Yes, you can!]] So neither inflation nor the budget deficit has jumped, and even remained within the figures. Old debate, Congressman Nándor Gúr, about wages and income. I do not think that this debate should be conducted, because, in addition to wages, the tax incentives, family tax incentives that families could receive, not with your help, could have resulted in an increase in incomes. Such an increase in income could also have been a reduction in the costs of which I think you would be obliged to acknowledge now. Attila Mesterházy said from 2014 that the data of this good year are not sustainable. So was 2014 a good year after all? After all, do we admit that the budget figures in the closing act are true? During the debate on the proposal, you said that this would not be good, that it would not be possible to observe; yet these siren sounds did not prove to be true. Before continuing, it was said that Hungary could use HUF 1845 billion of EU funds in 2014. I believe that this debate has been conducted several times, but it is not irrelevant from the point of viewer's point of view that if they learn that about 75-80 percent of this amount of HUF 1845 billion is a Hungarian source, the work of the Hungarian people combines the EU's allocation from which EU funds arrive in Hungary. So about 15 percent of this amount of 1845 billion is paid to Hungary as additional support, so-called net financing. So this question of whether Hungary and the Hungarian budget have given money for EU development resources and the development of the economy at all should be forgotten and thought should be given to the fact that Hungarian people should not be downgraded, but should actually be praised for their performance. After all, and now we are back to normal, but the 2014 closing bill is on the agenda, which is at first sight a set of numbers and tables, but, if you think about it, behind the implementation of the budget is the sweaty work of millions of Hungarians, the collaboration of Hungarian families, the production, service of Hungarian and Hungarian businesses and the vocation of public administration workers. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill on the implementation of the 2014 central budget and the State Audit Office report also support the government's management of budgetary processes in a sustainable manner. Allow me, for one thought, to address the extremely high level of work of the State Audit Office, which is also of outstanding quality in international comparison. Thank you, the State Audit Office, for supporting the work of the Government and Members with the annual report. I think that we Members of Parliament can rest assured that the Court of Auditors, which performs its tasks at a high professional level, is watching over the Hungarian budgetary processes and, in general, public funds. This is also reinforced by the work of the Fiscal Council, which ensures that the development and creation of the central budget serves sustainable economic growth. Dear House, As President László Domokos stated in his presentation, the audit of the State Audit Office found that the implementation of the 2014 budget was in line with the legal requirements, and that the draft closing accounts bill was well founded and the data contained in it were reliable. The implementation of the general government's central sub-scheme's statutory appropriations for 2014, deficit and government debt developments were in line with the provisions of the Fundamental Law, the Act on the Economic Stability of Hungary and the Public Finance Act. The cash flow deficit of the central government subsystem remained close to HUF 350 billion in 2014, with approximately 30.3% below the planned value. They also remember the deficit figures under socialist governments. I think there can be no debate between us, there is a clear difference between irresponsible and good governance in terms of numbers. The debt ratio decreased from 76,6 per cent in 2013 to 74.1 per cent by the end of 2014 by 2,5 percentage points. In 2014, Hungary's total national product increased by 3.6 percent, which was the second fastest in the European Union. Of the Visegrád countries, our country has shown the best growth results. Among the most striking macroeconomic data, it should be pointed out that investments have increased by almost 12 percent. The favourable economic processes were strengthened by speeding up the drawdown of the EU funds available to Hungary and the full application of the envelope was a government effort, which was successfully implemented. A total of HUF 1870 billion came from EU funds in 2014, which was slightly more than in 2013. The Court's macroeconomic analyses showed that Hungary received almost EUR 29 billion of net EU funding by 2014, due to its membership in the European Union, and 70 percent of it was drawn in the period 2010-14. Last year's budget left more money for people, as shown by the 1.7 percent increase in domestic consumption. This clearly established an improved income situation for the population, wages and pensions increased, while inflation remained low. Measures to help the population should also highlight the retroactive settlement of unfair additional burdens on retail loans, as well as the forinting of foreign exchange loans. By doing so, the population concerned has been freed from the exchange rate risk associated with foreign exchange loans. I think this is another outstanding result of last year, which allows economic, financial independence not only to be achieved at national and budgetary level or, for example, at municipal level, but also at the level of individual people. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is also very clear from the implementation of the 2014 budget that the government is on the side of decent citizens, honest entrepreneurs and workers and not least families. [[István Tukacs: Lőrinc Mészáros, Andy Vajna.]] The current tax rules don't order anyone...? [[István Tukacs: Fair entrepreneur: Andy Vajna. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Lőrinc Mészáros.]] - they don't encourage anyone to hide income because they reward decent work, not tax evasion. This also means that the economic policy steps in recent years and the budgetary and economic whitening carried out in previous years did not promote the growth of the grey and black economy, unlike the 2003-10 period. The share of social expenditure has decreased by applying the principle of work instead of aid. We encourage the preservation of jobs, not by subsidies, but by tax and contribution reductions provided under the Action Plan for the Protection of Jobs. We help families not by raising the family allowance, but by extending the tax allowance for children. This clearly shows that the budget for 2014 was a family-friendly budget, thanks to which the government and the people have increasingly supported the establishment of a family and considered it valuable. The budgets of the years before 2010 included tax measures which led to childbearing being synonymous with financial difficulties, resignation and deprivation. Steps to support families and encourage legal employment have resulted in an increase in employment rate of 208 thousand by almost 5.5 percent in 2014, thus exceeding the level of 4 million. [[13.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out the stability of the budget by summing up the experience and results of the implementation of last year's budget. In recent years, the government has designed various reserves for the central budget. The planned and flexible management of these reserves has contributed to the budget balance and unplanned expenditure, for example, due to unforeseen situations such as situations before last year. Of course, there have been errors and shortcomings in the implementation of the budget, to which the Court of Auditors has also drawn our attention. These signals are not ignored, and we are even doing so to correct these errors. I believe that, if we look back on the results of Hungarian fiscal policy, the Court's reports have benefited, as the quality of the planning and implementation of the current central budget, and the transparency of the budget, are gradually improving. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I think the time has come to thank people for the hard work they have done in recent years. Thanks to the tiresome work of the Hungarian people, we have not only managed to climb out of the abyss, but together we can proudly raise our heads again. Success is our joint success, which is why I ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of the bill, because the facts show that Hungary is on the right track. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-10-07-48	Thank you very much. It would be a two-minute turn, but before that, on behalf of the government, State Secretary Péter Benő Banai came forward. You have the floor, please.
u2015-10-07-49	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank Mr Lajos Szűcs for redirecting the debate back to the 2014 accounts. I would also like to thank Mr Attila Mesterházy, who has asked professional questions in his comments, questions that concern the 2014 accounts and which are indeed worth discussing. Let me respond to these points in a few sentences. One of the claims was that the figures in the 2014 accounts, such as the growth of 14 is not sustainable. I think that this statement can be approached as an economist when growth is sustainable or unsustainable. We know that if the balance indicators are broken down, there is a large general government deficit, there is a large current account deficit, there can be high growth over time, but this can be associated with an increase in public debt. We know that there has been such a great shortage in Hungary and a relatively small increase compared to this in the previous decade. But it is also possible to increase by keeping the balance indicators in order and even improving. The economic policy after 2010 shows me that, on the basis of the facts of the past, Hungarian growth is sustainable because it has not been accompanied by a breakdown of the current account or the lack of public finances. On the contrary, we managed to consolidate public finances by improving the chances of economic growth. A number of measures have been taken by the government in the light of this principle, which are reflected in the 2014 budget. Let me give you a concrete example: the principle of work, rather than aid. Yes, the amount of aid has been limited, and there is a strong incentive message for workers to work and not to try to make a living out of aid. This obviously reduces some of the public finances, and in other areas it has an additional growth potential for the economy, as there is an increase in labour supply. The state has also added that, under a public work programme, it has sought to provide value-creating work instead of aid to people and individuals. In terms of sustainability, these are economic facts that can be debated. I agree with Mr President that there were specific factors that influenced growth in 2014. It is already possible to argue whether, for example, the use of EU funds can be considered as an individual factor. The use of EU funds can be seen as a specific factor when we received significant funds as a Member State of the European Union from 2004 or as a specific factor when we know how much EU funds are available to Hungary in the period 2014-20. We therefore see that these European Union funds are with us, and I agree with Mr Szűcs, this is not an external aid, it is a support that the Hungarian economy deserves on the basis of common policies. Undoubtedly, there are specific effects on the measure taken by the National Bank. I also agree with Congressman Mesterházy on this. At the same time, I believe that the Hungarian National Bank has lived with a favourable external environment that has enabled significant reductions in the base interest rate, allowing the launch of instruments that the former management has not undertaken. To put it simply, I think that the Hungarian National Bank has been able to be a Hungarian national bank, while keeping the primary objective of inflation in mind, and not only has inflation reached a 3 per cent area in 2014, but we can see simply zero or below. On an annual basis, this inflation figure was minus 0.2. My main statement, however, is that, in addition to the specific factors that no doubt exist, thanks to the measures taken by the government and the measures taken by the Parliament, this growth is, in my view, sustainable, and this sustainability is confirmed by international forecasts from either the IMF or the European Commission or other analysts who calculate that the growth of the Hungarian economy can be above the EU average in the coming years. Mr President, Mr President, you raised the question of what is behind the good numbers of growth, the good numbers of employment. One of the suggestions was about social differences. Let me give you some specifics as a problem and remind you, all of us, of the steps the government has taken. Let's look at different indices, starting from the Gini index, a number of indicators that look at income relations within society. When does anyone have a chance to break up with society, reduce their income? If you're unemployed, for example. What did the government do? He has taken a number of measures to make people work. If the primary competitive market does not take them, they cannot absorb them, they should at least have the opportunity to work in public work. And I'm saying that in community service, you can get more resources for a private individual than for a grant. So I don't see on this line the element that acts towards the tear. When can someone be poor? If you have many children. That's what the numbers used to show. What was the government's response to that? He introduced a family tax reduction, the effect of this can be measured in a hundred billion-dollar amount, just in order to avoid that families who dare to think about the future of the nation and take on children should not become poorer. What did the government do to those groups who had the hardest work to do? He looked at what these groups were, and specifically took action in the framework of the Job Protection Action Plan to ensure that people over 55 years of age, those returning after having children, or the employment of young people were positive. We see that these measures have indeed been successful, so that again the employment of sensitive groups and thus the improvement of their income situation have been achieved. As regards the employment data already mentioned many times, I must first state that the Hungarian Statistical Office must follow the same statistical accounting principles as any other EU Member State. At our accession hearing, a separate negotiating chapter was the statistical system, so all the statistics published by the Statistical Office follow the same methodology as any other EU country's statistics. Now, based on these statistics, we can see that the number of people employed has increased by more than 500 thousand over the last five years. Yes, in this increase there is also the public work programme for 200 thousand people in the order of magnitude; it includes foreign employment, which did not jump after 2010, but as a Member State of the European Union, the number of workers abroad increased in Hungary and in other new Member States, which represents about 50 thousand people; and the increase in the number of employees in the competitive sector is around 250 thousand people. [[In the notary seat, Erzsébet Schmuck will be replaced by Dezső Liberty.]] [[13.50]] So, yes, as a result of the steps taken by government, parliament, national banking and other organisations, a significant increase in employment has been achieved in the competitive sector. And the question is, indeed, whether employment is often a barrier to growth. We see this in many areas in Western Europe. I've got government answers for that, too. Of course, it takes time for these to come in, but it must be seen that the government has identified and responded to the problems. It identified employment problems in the past and addressed these responses. We see that there is a shortage of workers in many places, and therefore we are trying to adapt employment to the needs of the real economy through the dual vocational training system, by transforming vocational training, but this is true not only for public education, but also for higher education. Let us look at the cooperation between higher education institutions and large enterprises. I think that the 2014 figures confirm the correct course of action so far. Of course, we are still looking at tasks ahead of us, and we are trying to solve these tasks in order to ensure that employment is substantially high, so that growth can continue to exceed the European Union's average. Finally, allow me to draw attention to four other factors that have been mentioned. Mr Nándor Gúr mentioned government debt figures. I would ask you, Mr President, to look at the government debt-to-GDP ratio that is important in economic terms, to look at how it has evolved over the past decade, and, Mr President, look at how it has evolved after 2010 in Hungary and in the countries of the European Union. Mr President, I would like you to look at how the structure of the Hungarian sovereign debt has evolved, and see how the domestic and foreign investors who buy our sovereign debt are of such opinion. Has the share of household savings increased and such public debt financing changed? Did our external dependence decrease? Is it the external government debt that rose to the top before 2010 and where the exchange rate changes affected this sovereign debt in a gigantic negative way, such as private individuals, whether or not this sovereign debt in external sources has decreased? It is also worth looking at the cost of financing public debt as a result of these steps. Let's see how much a three-month discount ticket can be financed. On an annual basis, interest expenditure is less than 0.4 that we all have to finance. Yes, I agree that this has also been made possible by the international environment. But I could mention a prime minister who used to say hundreds of tricks and money market abundance when he was talking about economic processes, and we didn't see such government debt figures. As far as the transparency of the 2014 accounts is concerned, I would warn everyone that it is a Hungarian company. or to draw far-reaching conclusions from data provided by an international organisation. I would warn against drawing conclusions on Hungary based on a data report, a survey that did not include around half of the EU Member States. I would warn everyone against giving a value judgment on the transparency of the budget when it is very questionable whether the indicators used by those organisations are objective. Finally, with regard to transparency, let me draw attention to the fact that even this organisation sees an increase in transparency compared to the previous period. If we are to make criticisms, it should also be said that they also believe that transparency has improved compared to the previous period. And to give a specific point on the availability of data: Madam Member, we publish on the website of the Ministry of National Economy the detailed central budget revenue and expenditure data on a monthly basis, please check them. And I would like to point out to everyone, in addition to the vast amounts of data, the State Treasury website - to mention only one website, if you have already mentioned a representative website - where the state presents a number of breakdowns of the structure of public expenditure and revenue, going back several years. One more sentence, Mr President, Honourable Parliament, on the national inventory, which is raised several times by Jobbik's representatives. I agree that every state, every government, must have a decent inventory of assets, in which it states exactly what assets the State has. My statement is that this is not a genre for budget implementation. The annual budget accounts for the implementation of revenue and expenditure for the year, while the national inventory is a document showing stock data, which genrely - I repeat - is not related to closing accounts. It is a positive thing that this state wealth has grown substantially in recent years, including 2014, and this expansion, which took place in 2014, is, of course, included in the accounts, and I am thinking of the expansion of assets in the area of utilities. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-07-50	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We'll continue our work in a two-minute circle. Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian is next in two minutes, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-10-07-51	Mr President, Dear House, I have the opportunity to point out the question: how do you know that the mass of Hungarian state wealth has increased? If there is no inventory of assets, you cannot even know how much of our assets we have in the sense of Hungarian state wealth, and how much of this has been lost in recent years. Perhaps much more has been lost than was acquired by the Hungarian government in the form of acquisitions. But let's just say that I have the opportunity to point out to you in a short time on another very important subject that the third Orbán government really spends more than all its predecessors, almost 800 billion on the state apparatus. What we can argue about is how much of this is in the public interest. But what we cannot argue is that this is the very amazing government in which so many ministers - twice as many Deputy State Secretarys with more than 55 State Secretarys, another 50 ministerial commissioners - can be said that Hungary has never had so many chief officials since its existence. We're talking about 200 more people than ministers, aren't we? This is true even if the number of ministers in the peak ministry system is lower, but the said Deputy State Secretarys-General, Chief Officials and other secretariats, cabins and external agents help. Obviously, the price of their work, in terms of the final amount of resources spent here, is higher than in the case of higher parliamentary representatives and higher ministerial staff. So how do you talk about cutting red tape? It is possible to hold professional debates on bureaucratic measures, but symbolically it is quite amazing that you, with such a huge staff of officials, are trying to maintain this level of achievement or to produce more results. We did not say that the national inventory should be linked here, to the accounts, but that we say that for five years, this is a violation of the law, and that we will point this to you at each debate. It is not for closing accounts, it is not for the budget alone, but for the normal planning of the Hungarian national economy at any level, it is essential that we know what we have, we know the family silver. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-07-52	Thank you. Congressman Nándor Gúr is next in two minutes.
u2015-10-07-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Szűcs, I would just like to say that Attila Mesterházy is coming, going, coming, going, seeing, and because he is meeting with a Danish delegation, and Zsolt Németh is constantly late with the guests, now almost an hour. Attila Mesterházy thinks there's something he can do in foreign policy based on the events of the last few weeks and months. And one more sentence: instead of my colleague Lajos Szűcs and Mrs Bangón had to stand up in time when she should have spoken, because she was not here at the time. But what the hell, there's one, you must've been busy, too. Salaries, cuts, 13th month's take? For seven years, the Hungarian Socialist Party gave the pensioners 13 months. They've been steering for the sixth year. Did they give you 13 months? They didn't give me a penny. Not a month, not a penny! What are you talking about? There is a need to pay people and not to set up support schemes, in addition to those support schemes that people cannot catch up with. Family tax breaks don't get to everyone. Unfortunately, in terms of income conditions, where they are most in need, there are the most sufferers of the story. Transparency, planning? More than HUF 100 billion in the 2014 budget is the magnitude of extraordinary central payments, which is opaque, not only for us, but also for the media, in terms of planning. [[14.00]] Look at the kata, look at the kiva, the two tax codes: 54 plus 28 percent of what was planned. A OSH action plan? Look! The rate of benefit increased, but interestingly for people under the age of 25 and over the age of 55 did not decrease there. They promised a million new jobs. Not just anywhere in the economy. What did they do with this? Nothing. Their promise has not been fulfilled. You don't have to do community service for nothing. One million new jobs for the economy, do so! That's what they promised. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-10-07-54	Thank you very much. Preliminary speakers will follow. The first among these is Mr István Tukacs, MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-10-07-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to deal decisively with the chapter on health in the budget, but let me make three comments first. I am proud to say that I am from the second largest county in the country, and I had the opportunity to ask Mr. Secretary of State Czomba a question about our county's work programmes. Secretary of State informed me that HUF 2.8 billion was spent on temporary employment of thousands of people in SMEs. Mr. Secretary, in my opinion, putting so many people into work temporarily there is not an outcome. At the moment, things stand that many have absolutely no opportunity to work there, because there is no job in the village, there is no job in its small settlement, and it cannot travel, because it earns so little that it cannot spend so much on travel. So I would really like to think of a debate on how much more useful investment would be in creating a permanent job by any other means. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] My second comment is what you said about poverty and decompression. He said he was unemployed and had a lot of kids. Then I'll give you three more reasons: sick, disabled and old. But you don't want to deal with them. The rules on sick leave are drastic; you have sent back with some brutal but brutal re-examination procedure, declaring one-leggeds capable of working - I am now deliberately cornering - and you do not want to deal with early retirement. But you won't be thanked by the railroadman who works in snow and heat at 58 years of age, and now he's trembling that the next medical examination will cancel him and he can go on welfare. So, in the breakup, the fact that he's unemployed and he's got a lot of kids, there's little reason. I'd like to take care of these, too. Finally, my third point concerns the transparency of the budget accounts. Secretary of State, this is not a quantitative issue. I, for one, don't care how much weight you weigh that's lying on your desk. I'd be happier if I met an analysis of wages in the health section. But I didn't find any trace of that. In fact, I didn't find any evidence of any such thing, which would give us at least some sort of comparison, even within the sector. Transparency is not about the weight of the data that lies before us, but about what the report is capable of, how we can draw conclusions from it, and what these conclusions are. Now, it's quite comical that we can find a one-sided table based on various pharmaceutical content, but this report cannot tell me how, let's say, the workers' wages rose in 2014 compared to 2013, perhaps compared to 2011, but you can tell me, thank God, for example, how much the number of beds in hospitals has decreased, which is financed. All right, let's do this. I have a great deal of respect for debates on the relationship between economic conditions and the budget. However, from a budgetary point of view, I do say that decisions are about what public tasks and how we use the money we receive in the budget. In this respect, one of the most important public tasks, which everyone else calls a national issue, and also, health care, whose budget has been reduced in a series in recent years, particularly with regard to the curative-preventive register. This was no different in 2014. You've given me a very interesting sign of this, by the way. 'Cause I've been looking at the fantasy name of this budget, because each of them has a budget for tax cuts, and it's different. You started advertising this budget as a budget for huge benefits to GPs. This text went on for a while in the public eye, and then they stopped and named it the budget for the reduction of the rent. I don't know why else, because I didn't find anything in this budget about what kind of rent the budget could cut itself. But the fact that you guys finally switched from this track to the fact that general doctors and general medicine were the reason you realized that you couldn't solve the case with HUF 10 billion. They didn't solve it. Thank God, this report gives us the opportunity to demonstrate that there has been no major breakthroughs in the case of unfulfilled GP practices, which is a problem some of the time, no breakthroughs in terms of asset transfer or funding. This is the first sign that this health budget is also reported to have very narrowly measured resources for this sector. The other one, which this report, as I mentioned, speaks very shyly of, is the position of wages. Because I think we should do what you don't exactly do by identifying problems and trying to find a solution to them. We do not agree with you to identify the problems, Mr Secretary. Because we say emigration, gratitude money, asset transfer, the age of the GPs, waiting lists, and so on. However, you often argue with them. They say that gratitude money isn't a problem, they want to make it legal, they want to keep it quiet. You say that emigration is not a problem, let him try himself in London, too, the dear doctor and the kind nurse. We don't think so, because it's a problem, because it's now a threat to the care; the resident is already watching over himself, which is forbidden, and so on. You say that age is not a problem, and doctors are not allowed to struggle with it by either retiring after the retirement age or by continuing to heal, but by no means can you do the two together. Then, when they realized how much damage this would do to health care in a professional sense, they tried to solve this problem with some vague scholarship system, which, as I learned, is no longer working. I think that if we do not agree on the problems, then the solution cannot be the same for us, for the opposition and for the government. Because if you, your secretary of state, said at the workers' demonstration that your demands were justified, because you said so, then we're looking for the budget part of this in the 2014 and 2015 budgets and 2016 budgets. And it's not in either one of them. What were these demands? Immediately 50 percent and 100 percent wage increase until 2018. What have you done in the 2016 budget? Well, they basically rented the allowance so far, so it could be carried out in excess of the work. They won't thank you for that. They won't thank you for that. They just did, now, yeah. Yes, Gábor Zombor will talk to you about this. In Hungarian, the number, the figure that indicates that the wages of health care workers have not changed significantly in 2014, indicates that you do not consider this request important when it comes to the budget. When the nurse on social media keeps the sign that 77 thousand net after 15 years of employment, it indicates that otherwise this question is real, because she takes it with her face and name. The second case I would like to talk about is whether it is an option for you to consider a method of continuous cuts in the health sector to create money. I mentioned this interesting data that we're not closing a hospital, we're not closing a hospital, but the number of active beds decreased by 2000 compared to 2011. So we don't want to kill the fish, but we're just draining the water from it. [[14.10]] This indicates to me that the chances of healing have decreased: fewer beds, less funding. If we compare this with the fact that it was - or was - a promise of 2014 to stabilise hospitals, then it can be concluded that this did not happen in 2014 either on the basis of financing or on the basis of one-off benefits. These debts exist, which suggest that there is a lack of money in this sector, especially in hospitals and inpatient care, not in hospitals. And this lack of money cannot be solved by the mathematical stunt that you wanted to present this year, as well, that I have 60 billion forints, of which I will pay 90 billion forints of hospital accumulated debt, and I will develop wages from the rest. Because that's what they wanted to do. Now, that didn't go so clearly in 2014. However, there was a narrowing of the sphere, as the number of beds in the hospital refers to this, which is what the funding refers to, and basically the little things that could be discovered in this report are that they gave the doctor's professional the opportunity to pay an extra HUF 2 billion, which seems to be a beauty patch rather than a real remedy for problems. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The debate is not whether the planned budget figures have been respected and whether they are real. I apologize, Mr. Secretary. If they weren't real, this budget couldn't be here on this table. The Budgetary Council wouldn't let him come here. So let's not celebrate that as a result, if I may, which, by the way, would not normally go as you referred to. Overall, I have to say that the 2014 report, which had to be compiled from other documents in the field of health, for example from the programme for Healthy Hungary 2014-2020, which you have done, shows a rather devastating picture of the philosophy that you are saying in budgetary terms. These extra resources don't exist, which you have introduced to health care in that budget year, and it's clear that this sphere can only be reduced, the chances of healing are reduced, and the healers are leaving. And I am making use of the invitation from my fellow Member Szűcs, which I thank you for thanking the people. I thank the Hungarian doctor, the Hungarian worker, the nurse and the non-healer for having endured this, who has endured it, not in Munich or Stuttgart, or in London or elsewhere, and says that I might come home someday. Maybe I'll come home someday when I see that gratitude money isn't a system, and there's no government that wants to legitimize it. Maybe I'll come home when I see that working conditions are European at least. Maybe I'll come home when I see I don't have to watch sevens, not see a family, 'cause I can make a living anyway. Therefore, Mr Secretary, we are debating philosophy. So we're not arguing that it's okay, we've achieved these numbers, because they've been achieved, but we're arguing what the extent of the distribution, how it's proven. Well, it is true that you can love health care in words, but you don't like it very much in action. And that's a big problem. The last thing I want to do is deal with a seemingly irrelevant issue, the history of transparency, how and to what extent this budget will be... Although I have already referred to it in a few sentences, but if you turn to the E Fund chapter, you can see that there is, for example, a table in the revenue section where the previous year's revenue compared to 2014 is of the order of 1000 billion, then the plan will be reduced to 400 billion by 2014, and then the performance will be 500. I am not discussing the difference between 400 and 500, although it would also be worth discussing, but that 1000 versus 400 is obviously due to the fact that a task has come out or entered on the revenue side, a source of income has come in or out. Tagging these cases in each budget line makes it almost impossible to make an objective comparison. Here, one of my fellow Members mentioned László Nyikos, who was obsessed with some cases, including the inventory of assets, of course, but he was obsessed with the type of budgetary accounts where something could be compared to something and conclusions should be drawn. I'm saying this because at this 1000 billion versus 400, you haven't even put a vague sentence on what makes it so, if that's the case. There's no reason or indication of what happened there. And that doesn't really help the objective assessment and everything else. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, in trying to deal with a part of this report, I must say that our debate will not be about whether a budget report is legally coming here, because if it were not prepared legally, it would not be here. We'll have a debate about how to distribute. And in this, it seems that we can expect prolonged debates in health care, unfortunately, as long as this government exists. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity.
u2015-10-07-56	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai.
u2015-10-07-57	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. I will try to be brief, but I feel that we need to respond to some of the things that Congressman Tukacs has said. The Member said that he had read the 2014 discharge, but he had not read many positives in the field of health. First of all, let me quote the number of health expenses: the provision of benefits and the operation of the institutions was paid HUF 1404.2 billion, which is HUF 60 billion more than in 2013. As regards comparability: the discharge proposal presents the changes compared to the previous year. As far as wages are concerned, yes, Congressman, indeed, this is a serious issue. Indeed, it was a serious issue after 2010, when very many people on the edge of Hungary proposed to reduce the number and wages of the public sector. Personally, I have heard this recommendation from renowned organisations on several occasions. There's been a lot of criticism of the government. Let's remember that he didn't choose this path, but because he had to operate with the bank tax, with new steps, and we see in budget 14 that he was successful. The first step, Congressman, was to maintain the gross level of wages. What did the government do next? In 2012, when the EU average fell, its economic development decreased, it launched a gross wage increase in the health sector. I am not even talking about the fact that the tax rate has changed, the family discount has also been introduced, so in many cases net income has increased in the event of gross wages remaining unchanged; I am talking about gross wages increasing in 2012 with doctors and nurses. That's what happened in 2013. So, Congressman, excuse me, but if you've read the 2014 closing report, I assume you've also read the 2013 closing account and the 2012 closing account, and in these closing accounts you've seen where the gross wage increase occurred. You have also mentioned that there are wage measures in 2015 and 16 too. You mentioned the GPs. Let's ask the GPs if there's been any change in their funding or not. Let's look at the 2016 budget proposal or not a proposal or a law, whether there is a further step in it with regard to general practitioners or not. Of course, it is easy to say that more resources should be provided in all areas. The budget policy and the implementation of the budget are, in my opinion, the responsibility of a given government, given Parliament, to provide more resources. My statement is that the government is trying to reach people in a responsible manner, not by living up to the future, with an increase in public debt, but in a responsible manner, in line with the performance of the economy. And this effort has been successful so far, as real wages have increased in the economy and very significant wage increases have been made in many areas of the public sector. The congressman is right that it is not in all areas. But that's what responsible farming is all about. We strive to ensure that the government continues to take wage measures in line with the performance of the economy. In short, it's about the national inventory, because it's been mentioned by a number of people. I regret to mention such a technical matter, but I mentioned that closing accounts are not a genre for presenting the country inventory, but I have to say that on the országleltar.gov.hu page, stock data for 2010-13 are available and new data will be uploaded continuously on the basis of the 2014 reports. [[14.20]] So I think that we are banging open gates for the national inventory through this website. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-07-58	I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter.
u2015-10-07-59	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I, too, must note in any way that, as we have seen here in Parliament recently, I very much appreciate the fact that, after speaking, you are speaking, and you really do not leave your opinion to the last moment. However, I would like to respond immediately to your previous speech, as you said that the big question is whether the government is responsible for providing more resources to certain areas. And I believe that it is the government's responsibility to provide more resources in areas such as health, education, social affairs - I believe that it is also the case of protection and security - all of these are strategic areas, essential functions, the functions of the state, necessary to ensure the basic living conditions, health and safety of the population. So I would like to point out once again that it is the responsibility of the government to provide more resources. I think it's the first time. And if we are talking about responsible farming, I think that it starts with the fact that we can see legislation that is not tailored to a person or to a company for years, which, by the way, allows budgetary resources to spread to areas which are opaque and uncontrolled; the responsible management begins here that the state does provide adequate resources for these strategic areas. I would like to turn back to the defence area here, and I would like to talk primarily about the chapter of the Ministry of Defence and the implementation of the 2014 budget in this area. It is quite clear to us that defence is a national matter. And this is not just Article 1 (1) of the 2011 Defence Act, but I think that we should all think of it that way. I think it is possible that many of the pro-government representatives, not God, think that this is true and must fulfil this criterion and function, but unfortunately, the policy of the last few years shows that when decisions are made on the defense, the Hungarian Defence Office, the Ministry of Defence chapter, it is explicitly underfunded and we see huge withdrawals in the area. So we can't say that the government would treat it as a national matter. However, it is quite clear that the military force must have the skills to perform clearly successfully and effectively the task it defines for society, the society which otherwise creates and maintains this military force. It is clear that the aim is not to maintain functionality at a minimum level, which could be seen in several accounts, in 12 and 13 before 2014 in particular, written by letter, but also in order to maintain the continuous development of capabilities and the improvement of operational capacity. It is also quite clear that the effectiveness and functioning of an army is one of the most important public issues, and although we can see that both in public and in society it is not certain that this is the area that is the primary issue and that is the primary issue, but policy has a huge responsibility to recognise how important an area we are talking about. There is certainly a need for long-term thinking here, not for God, but for consensus, because long-term thinking would assume that successive governments should not constantly invent new things, but should develop this strategic area along a common mechanism. Unfortunately, for the time being, opposition representatives have certainly only been involved in the rarest cases in the last five years. This was the case of the helicopter, and it happened only once there - otherwise I will return to it later. But to mention specifics from the 2014 accounts, it is clear that it supports the criticisms we have been saying about the area for years. It can be seen that there has been a continuous decline in resources over the years, and in 2014 we can only talk about a very small plus: HUF 3.5 billion. We know that in the case of a budget of 250-300 billion, such a 3.5 or don't give, 5 billion forints is enough, it is quite clear - it is extremely few. I think that this is very little even to maintain working ability, let alone to improve it or to make possible improvements. If you look at the number of employees, you can see a clear decrease in 2014 as well; more than 400 soldiers have fallen, and otherwise we can see hundreds of people in each category, but it is the number of contract staff that is most impressive: here we can talk about 431 people. So we can see that leaving the stock also worked in 2014. Obviously, we'll see the year of the year 2015 in a closing account. I don't think this trend would have decreased in the first semester. The fact - and I would like to highlight it here too, because we are not only highlighting the negatives, but also the positive ones - is that the actual salary development for soldiers in 2015 has actually been carried out. I would also like to point out, however, that a very important part of appreciation is a very important part of material appreciation, but not a unique part, because it is natural that working conditions, the appropriate resources to enable military personnel and defence workers to carry out their duties are at least as important as the proper implementation of care and logistics tasks. I would also like to discuss training and education here. So obviously we're talking about a very complex system. This salary development was absolutely necessary, and it is positive that it has been achieved, but I do not think it is sufficient. It is quite clear that if the increase that the government has promised will take place next year, we will naturally support this as well, and all the steps that can be taken to improve the conditions of the stock, as we are talking about very well-trained stock, those who can perform their task perfectly, and do so by keeping the Hungarian Defence Agency operational over the last five years, because everything else happened in an extremely difficult field, we can see the budget figures, what kind of withdrawals they were. I would like to move to the ratio of personal benefits, operational and development expenditure. Here, the national military strategy defines a ratio of 40-30-30 percent. Compared to this, there are 45.33 percent personal benefits, 41.52 percent operating, and the most important: 13.15 percent is only development expenditure. We know that most of this is almost entirely taken by the Gripen program. So, in substance, what is intended for development is again, we can say, seeing 2014 - and I do not think that this year would improve too much - it is a very small amount and it is incredibly far from the 30 percent set as the target. It is also important to highlight this extremely low ratio, as this is a matter to be addressed in this area, because there is another very important figure in this accounts, and this is the proportion of assets described as zero compared to gross value, which reached 28.2 percent in 2014. [[14.30]] So nearly 30 percent is the proportion of assets described to zero, which indicates depreciation of technical assets. So this is the number which, unfortunately, I must say, is not surprising, there has not been much technical improvement in recent years, and we can see that there are improvements ahead of the government - and it is the government's responsibility and responsibility - and I would like to point out once again that these will be implemented - such as preserving the ability to transport helicopters, because we have also seen that the combat helicopter capability has unfortunately ceased. So there is plenty of work to be done, and, for example, there is still no understanding of the reason for this in the case of helicopters, since everyone can see how important this would be. And what kind of revenue can the Ministry of Defence manage in addition to receiving budget support, for example, to sell incurrency. This is also a task that we know is not a simple task, but it is in any case urgent, and we can see that the portfolio - and the government is most likely to expect - may be able to generate revenue from the sale of these assets removed from the order of war, which, by the way, compensates slightly for the low budget support. But I think that it should not be based on this, that obviously we must try to sell these instruments, but we must also give the right budget support to this area. It is questionable how the government plans to remedy the loss of personnel. As I pointed out, we are going to see the result of the stipend development, by the way, whether that is enough, I'm afraid, not necessarily. Obviously, it will bring us closer to stopping this, but it will have to be dealt with in any way in the future. In addition to the development of salaries, let us not forget - and I ask the Secretary of State - those who work in the status of civil servants; about 6,000 people we are talking about, the defence workers who perform an extremely important task in the Hungarian Defence Office, but who are not subject to the salary improvement that has now been defined. They are still calculating their salary according to the civil servants' salary base, so I think that these HUF 8,000 supplements would not be needed there either, on an ad hoc basis, but a really predictable salary development. Otherwise, it would affect many public sector workers, including all public sector workers, in order to raise the civil servant's salary base, and it is absolutely necessary to keep this in mind in the future. And then I'd like to say a few more sentences about helicopters. It is quite clear that both disaster response and transport tasks... - so we are also talking about civilian tasks and emergency response tasks in the use of these, it is also a fact that the safety environment can change so that, by the way, these devices and this ability, such as transport helicopter capability, will have to be available, and then there will be no time to resolve this issue. So obviously we are talking about something that is a relatively lengthy process, at least six months, or even years, to measure the solution. We also see an increasing emphasis on helicopter capabilities in ongoing military and civilian crisis response operations and an increasing need for helicopters. However, the use of helicopters is extremely wide, since it is both suitable for support for land troops, disaster response and construction tasks, and most importantly, it is necessary to guarantee the safety of citizens. In 2013, it was already promised that the government would be able to make a decision on this issue in spring 2014, and since then we have seen neither consultation nor the provision of resources, there is not a penny at present to ensure helicopter and transport helicopter capability. So I would like to point out in the last sentence that the 2014 discharge shows a very sad picture of the chapter of the Ministry of Defence and the situation of the Hungarian Defence Office, and I would also like to ask Mr State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy to pay much more attention to this area, because although there is a real rise in the 2016 budget, the majority of this, about 80 percent of which is the staff's salary development. Therefore, there is a need for substantial improvements, and I am not only thinking about these great capabilities, such as helicopter skills, but also about the development of individual equipment for soldiers, and how many of these tasks there are, to pay more attention to this. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-07-60	We have reached the end of the speakers who have been registered in writing. Now it is possible to make a two-minute comment. Congressman István Tukacs has spoken. You have the floor.
u2015-10-07-61	Mr. President, thank you very much. Secretary of State, I do not want to leave your responsible and irresponsible question unsolved for the world, because, although it is completely irrelevant in this debate that I have actually met a general doctor, not one who has been completely dissatisfied with this funding, it is not entirely unreasonable, but let us discuss the question of responsibilitylessness a little further. Because I understand what you mean about budgetary responsibility, but I would like to avoid something in this debate. Let's understand each other, we are thinking of a different share of the budget when we are talking about health care, and I think that the Secretary of State does not believe that anyone who wants 50 percent wage development for the doctor and nurse is irresponsible, who builds a stadium for a hundred billion. Anyone who renounces the tax on the casino concession is responsible for those who think that men should have early retirement and are irresponsible. Anyone who believes that this budget can afford a lot of barely-watched state TV costs of 80 billion dollars and that today's well-replaced expenditure is responsible for those who think that the labour code should be changed and the workers protected, and that it is irresponsible. So I'm guessing that's not what you're thinking, Mr. Secretary of State. I mentioned, let's say, in this debate, I mean, in this text, two budget lines, because you don't really believe that a wage claim is unfounded when there is money for other types of budget spending and interestingly, and perhaps not the most justified, because ten thousand people's Sunday entertainments are not worth as much to me as the recovery of hundreds of thousands of patients per week, at about the same amount of money. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-10-07-62	I now give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács in two minutes.
u2015-10-07-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Just joining the debate on the health chapter, I thought it was worth commenting on. In my reading, closing accounts prove, by the way, that it's not the final one, but one angle in the coffin of health care is what's in front of us. And this is not an exaggeration to the extent that it supports a continuous downswing, and it is well demonstrated by the fall in public spending, which is otherwise in proportion to GDP, which is also assessed and well shown by the report of the good state, as there is a decrease from 5.6 percent to 4.7 percent during the last Orbán government, i.e. between 2010 and 2014. So this can be well tracked, and I think that the "Good State Report" does not lie about what public expenditure reduction was in proportion to GDP. The other problem I have is a missing HR inventory. So to this day, we do not know how much doctor works in Hungary, for example. Obviously not all of them work as civil servants, there are entrepreneurs among them, but until there is, for example, an HR inventory, we do not know whether those medical chamber records contain working, active, inactive, absent doctors, we will not even know what they should be charged or how much wages they should be paid and how much wages they should be paid. Secondly, it is clear that the well-known nature and set of debts of public institutions and health institutions that were already known at the time were not affected by this budget, it did not crumble it, it did not significantly reduce it, for example, by an increase of HUF 23 billion at the E Fund, but we also know that there is a much larger volume of stock that is constantly rising year after year, and although the government has taken care of everything this year, it is not planned again in the following year. So the criticism is that with this growing trend, which can be calculated, the government does not plan, and this year, so it is not planned for the current accounts either. I would like to ask here how much money would still be needed in health care, according to Mr Secretary of State, whose door I think is being besieged for the growth of public health expenditure. How can you or Michael Varga see that a normally functioning system can be guaranteed, because it is not possible at this point. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[14.40]]
u2015-10-07-64	I now give the floor to Congressman János Volner in a normal time frame.
u2015-10-07-65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Kárpát, my fellow Member, Dániel, has already summarized Jobbik's position with a general speech as a keynote speaker. For my part, I would like to link myself to a few parts of a general nature, but important ones that have been missed due to a lack of time frame, and I would like to address a number of sectoral issues. Over five years, GDP growth in Hungary has been on average 1.3 percent, and last year our economic growth has been good, as the Hungarian economy has been able to produce growth above 3 percent. However, I think it is very important to say that, overall, I consider the current structure of the Hungarian economy to be unhealthy. The proportion of foreign companies is too high, and when, for example, my fellow Members are thinking about the Volkswagen diesel scandal, they see how vulnerable the Hungarian economy can be. Hungarian interests may also be damaged by factors that are completely independent of us, that a giant company established here, which turned out to produce millions of engines affected by the scandal in Győr, this giant company may be cheating on some foreign markets, and this also has a strong impact on the Hungarian economy. I consider this to be very important because there is a regular debate within the Parliament about what constitutes a Hungarian participant within the economy, and what is not. It is very important that if we base our economic growth on the assumption that the Hungarian workforce will be able to work for foreign companies established here, and based on this, we hope that the country's fate will improve, then I think that we are on the wrong path. My fellow Member, the well-being of Western countries is not limited to the fact that not only are they realising a fairly low level of labour income in these economies, but also capital income; what we cannot realise in Hungary is that only a very small part of this is coming from the large companies involved - transfer pricing, many other techniques are removing their profits, bringing them home to the mother country abroad - but also because in Hungary the wage mass that appears and what is created here is in strong competition with the wage level of other poor Eastern European countries. And unfortunately, as a consequence, we can see that if my fellow Members now look at the average salary in Hungary, the average salary in Hungary has decreased in euro compared to 2010. Not only didn't it grow, it's reduced! When the government talks about wage growth, it is true that the government is counting on an increasingly weakening, international forint. If we look at where we stand in euros, then wages have also increased in euros in the neighbouring countries and in the Visegrád countries, and wages have also increased in euros in Western Europe. Unfortunately, the competitiveness of the Hungarian economy was based on the government's fact that it made the Hungarian workforce cheap and vulnerable. This is why there has been a fall in wages in euro in Hungary, and in this way we hope that the turn of prosperity will come. In view of the fact that the governments of the last 25 years have not put any emphasis on the creation of Hungarian production capacity, we can not only participate in global value creation through wage labour, but also with the production of Hungarian competitive companies and the conquest of foreign markets. This effort is practically, I have to say, nothing stands yet. Another very important and often forgotten question is when Members of Parliament are talking about whether economic policy is sustainable or not. It is important not only to focus on how the budgetary equilibrium processes are developing, but also on whether, for example, the replacement of depreciation has budgetary coverage. Colleagues, think of the fact that there have already been changes of flights in Budapest, vehicle changes have already started, new buses have started to be bought, but a significant part of the buses are between twenty and thirty years old. A significant part of the country's railway fleet is 20 or 30 years old. In a large part of the country's rail tracks, there are still slow signals because there is a fraction of the amount that should be used to maintain existing track sections as budgetary collateral. And then, when depreciation is not redeemed, in the long term, a country gets to the point where its economic processes become unsustainable because the country is constantly losing its ability to function by not being able to maintain its large systems, let alone develop them. And this is an important thing, and we have to say that Hungary is facing a huge sustainability problem in this area, because there is no budgetary coverage for the replacement of depreciation. I have repeatedly condemned the government in recent years because the Orbán government has not ensured that we can operate these large Community systems in a sustainable way within the framework of a long-term concept. The way to do this would be to say that there are so many kilometres of roads, so many kilometers of this every year to ensure at least a sustainable level of Hungarian roads, and that the appropriate budgetary coverage of this certain number of kilometres should be ensured in the budgetary law, or, rather, I say that we should. This, however, is missing. This is a serious shortage that leads parts of the country to become inhabited in bad infrastructure conditions, governments do not like to deal with this in government cycles because the government cycle is four years old, while, let's say, a vehicle acquisition is for a period of 15-20 years or even more. Thus, the political elite is not interested in compensating for this loss because of the cyclical shifts over four years. I would consider it very important for government policy to move in the direction of ensuring this. It is also important to note that it was not the own performance of the Hungarian economy in recent years that balanced the budgetary processes and heated economic growth, but that it was the external EU support that helped to drive these financial processes in a positive direction. Again, this is the vulnerability of a country, because we need external transfers in order to be able to maintain this kind of functionality at all. It is also important to say that Hungary is still on a risky path in this respect. If we look at the development of the sovereign debt indicator, the Széll Kálmán plan, which the second Orbán government put down shortly after its establishment in 2010, envisaged that the debt-to-GDP ratio should be between 65 and 70% by the end of last year. Nor did we explain to the government why this significant difference, this roughly 10 percent difference between the value in the debt indicator's previous plans and the current debt indicator, is due to what. I also think it is worth mentioning what the public work system, which now costs the Hungarian taxpayers HUF 360 billion, has resulted in. We regularly whipped the government by the fact that there is very little real value creation within the public works system, the kind of work that not only gives people jobs in principle, but also basically creates value for people living in rural areas, for example, in public workers, for the production of vegetables, fruits, and various foods, unfortunately, this process is very childish. There is not enough attention at government level to achieve this kind of value creation, and we can also see this at the level of large numbers. After all, if we look at the evolution of the productivity index per capita in Hungary, we can see a 0.9 percent decrease due to the start of the public work system, and the virtually little value created within the public works system, while people are employed in this way by the government. This is also a question that I think should be dealt with a lot more, and let me tell you here, making some personal detour, that I am a man living in a lowland farm, and that many of my neighbors are currently working as public workers. I see these people's sad fates, and I talk to them, and it's not often that I stop and talk to my neighbor, because I'm on my way home from community service, and there's one thing they have to do at 8:00 in the morning, and they're home at 9:00, because they can't afford a meaningful job. [[14.50]] This type of employment is also called public work by the government, although it has virtually nothing to do with it. This is a social policy benefit in this case. It is important to achieve value creation because then public wages can also grow compared to the current, otherwise shamefully low levels. I also think it is important to say that the expenditure of legislators and enforcement bodies has increased over the past period, compared to 2013, with a 1.2 percent increase in this area. I think it is particularly important to emphasise this because the figures show something completely different than what György Matolcsy spoke about as a newly debuting Minister of National Economy in 2010 before the public of the Parliament. At the time, the Minister said that Hungarian bureaucracy costs HUF 2800 billion to the Hungarian economy, and the Minister considered that about 30 percent of this to be saved. This could mean a reduction in expenditure of HUF 840 billion, reducing the burden of bureaucracy on the economy, and, unfortunately, we see that these expenditures have increased. Not only couldn't save money, but there was a steady increase in this area. Let me draw the government representative's attention to the fact that this increase did not happen by accident. I consider that professional work, that professional preparation, to be responsible for this growth, which was virtually behind, and which was in its infancy within the work of the government apparatus. The government is starting a process called state reform, when it tries to save a small sum of HUF 840 billion, but it doesn't even exist in the state reform, even the snapshot of the fact that we are talking about the many public tasks, roughly 9,000 public tasks that the state and the municipal sub-scheme together perform, in what structure they are now performing. The government didn't even do this survey. At least, when we asked several times where to view a public list of tasks organised in a functional breakdown that would cover the activities of ministries, municipalities, all kinds of budgetary background institutions, we practically did not get this. Imagine now that we are about to begin a major state reform, a major transformation, that even the snapshot is not ready, and we do not know at the end of the process called state reform, let us say, three years from now, in four years' time, where we are going to reach the final goal, sir, in the intervening times, let us say, by the end of this year, where the process of state reform will go, how we can save this huge HUF 840 billion. So as long as this lacks its design, because it is not laid out where this process is going, and why György Matolcsy hoped to save this amount in 2010, let us not be surprised that there is no savings, but that the expenditure of the legislative and executive bodies in Hungary will increase directly in proportion to GDP. This shows a complete lack of professional preparation in this area and refers to idea-like changes. It is also important to see that since the second Orbán government took office in 2010, practically no year has passed since then that the budget balance should not have been adjusted by extraordinary government measures. This meant that some austerity measures had to be put into effect during the year. This means extraordinary government action indicating the lack of sound budgetary policy and underlying calculations. In the first half of 2014, an adjustment of HUF 110 billion was required. This was blocking and the amount resulting from the reschedule of the investment fund's expenditure. I also think it is important that, when we talk about the state's wealth growth and the state's wealth management, the national inventory that my fellow Member, Mr Z. Carpath, has now called on Mr. State Secretary, is prepared, but has not yet been completed. This is also a very important thing, isn't it, that an accurate inventory of assets is at least not yet in our possession, and we can't fully assess what the state has, and so it is very difficult to carry out the responsible management of the state assets mentioned in the national wealth law if we don't even know what we have. This is an important deficit that I think needs to be replaced as soon as possible. I am pleased that, according to my warning, the government has modified the internal information system for public finances, and now the lack of self-governments cannot go away without the government knowing about it in time, and legal guarantees have been made to prevent it. I will continue, Mr President, thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-07-66	I now give the floor to our fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, in a normal time frame.
u2015-10-07-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary, I would like to thank you specifically for the fact that I am seeing you here in the process of doing reflections on what has been said in this debate. Although I have been waiting for two hours for you to give a substantive answer to the questions concerning wages, which concerned the minimum wage, which was the public wage, many other issues. [[Péter Banai Benő consults Dr. László György Lukács.]] You haven't made it yet. I see you're moving forward. Thus, if you have to deal with something else, it is likely that it will be difficult in the coming period as well. With regard to the continuation, I am practically referring back to a few thoughts in order to give Mr. Secretary of State a handhold. A country is successful if its citizens are successful, and if as many as possible, if one year x and the next year x+y are successful. And what I see is that fewer and fewer people can succeed in making a good profit, and, of course, there are those who are very successful. Some successful entrepreneurs have also said here among the walls of this Parliament, regardless of whether they are gas mechanics or any other activity, who, if any - I will just give you an example, Mr Secretary, as a handler - who in a given year takes up 800 million forints of dividends, employs 225 people and pays 157 million forints for 225 people. You know, there's a lot of talk here about multi, non-multi-, et cetera. This is not the multinationals, this is a story that can be revealed in the Hungarian entrepreneurial circle, what I said. I think that the government would also have something to do in this regard, not to reduce the amount of dividends that someone takes out, but to increase the fact that those who work do not do this activity for wages, for a minimum wage of falling value, or if they have said a few words about the minimum wage, but also about public employment, not for two-thirds of the money, as they did five years ago. And in line with value creation, I would like to say in public employment that I absolutely agree with him; the only good thing would be that this would be in a far-reaching majority and not in a minority, i.e. value creation. If we are not talking about resources, we are talking about money, we are talking about what the world of work looks like, because this has also been mentioned, and if we are talking about it here, I would also highly recommend to the Secretary of State that he turn around the various researches and statements, which have been declared authentic and can be said. These confirm that it is statistically possible to talk about the number of people employed in Hungary, but we know very well that, for example, five years ago, before the change of government, 40-50 thousand people worked in public employment on average, and today we look at this issue as if 200,000 more people were involved in public employment. Of course, there is also a form of public employment where a few ten people, covering a long period of months, clean, say, 600 meters of ditch. The value of performance and the value-creating nature of these issues are immediately questionable. There was a mayor who gave up his status because he considered these processes unacceptable, and there are countless mayors who obviously can't think the same way. But I do not dispute or even confirm that there is a place for public employment in Hungary today, I would just like to say and say no more about it, if it should be public employment, it should be accompanied by value creation, it should be a system of performance requirements, so it should have a good sense of use, so that it should not only be about payment of money - of course, I add, about the decreasing amount of money - but it should also produce accumulated value. [[15.00]] On the labour market, Mr Tállai, our fellow Member, is talking about a 200 000 increase in the number of people employed. I'll add three to that figure right away, just to make it easier to think. Oh, and he also said that without the public employees, the number of employees increased by 1.8 percent, so if we don't count them in, that's 1.8 percent over that period. I'm talking about 2014. I would like to tell you that there was an increase in the number of people employed in public employment from one year to the next, more than 100,000 people. I would also like to say that the 1.8 percent, if we consider what you say to be true, Secretary of State Tállai, is 70,000 people for a 4 million employment. But I would also like to say that, in this period of time, from 2013 to 14 by 30,000 - KSH - there are more people who have found employment abroad within a year, and who are realised and credited as employed in Hungarian statistics. In other words, we are at the point that there are only 40,000 left. I would also like to add that there has been an increase of 10,000 in student employment, and then we will get to the point that 20-25 thousand new jobs were born in the competition sector during this period - if they were born. It is very important to estimate each job, and I would just like to say that you have promised 1 million new jobs in the economy. You understand what I'm saying: a million new jobs in the economy. Not 20,000 in a year, then 80 in four years, then 160,000 in eight years, but 1 million new jobs in the economy. You didn't create any of this, nothing. I must say, therefore, that this activity, which is also characterised by 2014 in this sense, is a failure. Mr. Secretary of State Tállai says that the Code of Work has made the process flexible. Well, I don't know what the government's negotiating with the Labour Councils and the LIGA now, according to the press, or just press reports that they're negotiating. So the point of the matter is, in my knowledge, that the LIGA, which has been behind the government for a long time, already objects at a thousand points to what was otherwise supported in the past, and what the Hungarian Socialist Party submitted in its 508 amendment when changing the Labour Code. You understand what I'm saying, don't you, Secretary of State? I would therefore like to say that, at least within the walls of Parliament, the Secretary of State should not say such a thing as a miracle with the code of a new work when the vast majority and the multitude of people were put in a vulnerable position. There are many examples. But even state-owned companies, because you know it, if you don't know it, I tell you: in the case of state-run companies, for example, in the context of collective agreements, you can't differ more positively than the code of work, so to speak, the Bible. It wasn't like that before. You have also limited this. In English, they are not making some kind of regulation in this regard with regard to employees. What I want to say to you, Mr Secretary of State, is that when we talk about unemployment, employment and wages, you should always take into account what has happened in the last five years. If you can't take it into account, then, forgive me, I don't want to be a picnic, ask former Minister Matolcsy, ask him who indicated earlier that 500,000 people had left this country, not willingly, but because these people were in a vulnerable situation. They couldn't find it at home, they couldn't find the means to make a living, and therefore, yes, because they want to support their families fairly, they have left this country, and they are trying to make progress elsewhere, and from this source they can help the everyday lives of their families at home. What I mean to say is that when it is 600,000 people who leave this country in the last five years, it must also be taken into account, not only that they are forced to do so, but also why this country is lost, that the existing, existing jobs that can be created would have given them the means to live. So what I'm trying to say is that if you're in employment, you don't have to be too proud to be quasi-emphasised from unemployment status - here comes the quasi, as if - raising people to public employment, creating value, unfortunately putting a lot of them in a vulnerable position. They themselves feel bad in these situations, because they know that they do not contribute to the creation of social surpluses, many people are raging from the inside, that this is not okay, and, of course, they do not get the money they received in 2010, they can pocket the two-thirds of the value of their work. So what I'm trying to say, Mr. Secretary of State, is that there are very large torsos here, because this public employment is all about improving employment statistics on the one hand, and, obviously, those who become public employees are out of the unemployed, and this is as if unemployment is falling, but in fact you are not creating effective, tangible jobs producing tax forints in the economy. This is the biggest sin, this is the biggest mistake of the story, because our basic promise was to create 1 million new jobs in the economy. They could not move in this respect either in 2014, so they could not produce results. It is not random that in terms of income, although you say real incomes are increasing, I must say that you are right, of course, if you finish this one sentence here. Only if he makes a comma and continues, and the majority of people are unfortunately not beneficiaries, because he doesn't earn any extra income, and his minority, his affluent layer, earns a lot more, then, yes, that's true, then he's right. It's just that, in a society, it's not the minority that has to live better, it's not the smaller medium that has to live better, it's the majority, because, as I said in my first sentence, it's a successful country, if the people in it can become successful as much as possible, i.e. they can live within the framework of normal living. In the meantime, I have to say that during this period, in 2014, you have withdrawn funds from health care, education, social sector, welfare care, and I could tell you that you have taken out a thousand billion forints of resources, while in 2014 people have paid more taxes, and we have paid in total than when the government changed in 2010. You understand what I'm saying, don't you? What else is combined, what is associated with this? The fact that the competitiveness of this country is also deteriorating is that the transparency of public finances is not improving. In English, corruption becomes a hotbed for everything that can become one. The state's operating expenses are increasing, in an undisputable way. And, you know, 1 percent of the GDP is equivalent to 320,000 billion forints. I know you don't need to deal with this, but you need to talk, but I'm gonna give you these numbers. But that's why I'm signaling these numbers so that if you read back the minutes later, you can answer them in writing in six months or at the hearing of next year's budget. What I want to say to you, and not just to you, but to your government, in particular, is that it is worth considering whether you want to benefit the majority of society and that, in relation to a budget, real processes should be shown while ensuring predictability. If there is, the use of how it is done is important for people in the country. It doesn't matter who becomes beneficial, not personally, but in terms of social groups. And it doesn't matter whether the government is doing a wasteful job or not. What I'm trying to say is that you should be a little bit more restrained in this, in luxury investments and in a lot of other things, but also in terms of positive action towards friends and pereputty. Transparency should be strengthened. Budget Council, SAO: if you had gone a little deeper in these matters, if you had looked at the story a little more closely, you might have been able to make a number of proposals on the government's economic policy or on matters related to the budget that could help the government's thinking in the future. [[15.10]] Summa: I will tell you two things as a suggestion; whether you accept it or not. One is: fulfill your basic promise. Create a million new jobs in the economy! They've been in government for six years, and you haven't done enough. You've got two more years, most likely. Try to do as much as you can. The other is that when you think about wages, you think about salaries, especially where you least have them. You know, where the nurse makes 70-80 thousand forints, where the minimum wage earns 5 thousand forints less, where the civil servant's salary is unchanged. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-10-07-68	I now give the floor to Congressman János Volner.
u2015-10-07-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I concluded my previous comment by saying that fortunately, the government seemed to have followed Jobbik's earlier proposal and renewed the information system for public finances. You know, I'm thinking of the lack of local governments, and I'm thinking that, even at the end of the year, the government didn't know what the deficit would be, because the data weren't available. In this connection, let me say, Mr Secretary of State - and I am very pleased that at last a Secretary of State represents the Government, who perhaps also accepts meaningful comments, and I would also ask the Secretary of State to forward these comments within the Government through the appropriate information channels, be it kind - that several systems have been introduced in recent years that have been associated with a large number of variables in Hungary, have been affected by large numbers, socially, economically separately or equally important. This was recently the introduction of the EKAER system. There have been new taxes, which have then been partially met, and I will soon discuss this in more detail. I can see that the impact studies have been cancelled several times, they have not been completed, they have not been available. These missing figures were then referred to later by the State Audit Office as unsubstantiated budget lines in its own forecasts, since we could not say because of the lack of impact assessments exactly how much these will be achieved. In addition, I think it is important that I know that the government operates a referature department assigned to the Department of Strategic Affairs, through which, in principle, the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office is constantly monitoring data developments. It's just hard to imagine how this works. Simply because we saw that there were very serious operational anomalies, a number of data were not available, and it happened for months that, when a new measure was introduced, the government was not given enough information to implement them. Think of the anomalies caused by online cash registers, or recently by the introduction of the EKAER, and as if the government did not know enough about the existence of these problems. And it was completely incomprehensible why he didn't move forward in these things. I suspect that because the Prime Minister's Office did not have the right information, and the leaders who had been removed from their post at times, I am thinking of the former head of the NFÜ, trying to deny what mistakes they had made. Technically, this whole country was paying off later. These large systems are such, Mr Secretary of State, as compliance with VAT, for example, which the government has touched in a commendable way, since they have taken measures to reduce extremely high levels of VAT fraud or even EU funds, Mr Secretary of State. Here, too, the government is working with huge numbers, also with huge variables, since there are different operational programmes, but there has been a very serious gap in these too. If we consider now that we are talking about stopping hundreds of billion-dollar money, stopping them and splintering them rapidly, then you can see that this issue has much more economic significance than one could otherwise be aware of in connection with the renewal of the information system. So I would ask the Secretary of State to inform the government that I see that the field of information flow and optimisation of processes would be the renewal of the Reference Department and that the government could move forward in these matters. This also affects the balance of the budget very seriously, because if the EU grants are not paid, or if this is delayed, or if the appropriate multiplier effect is not created because the government spends its money in inadequate operational programmes, unfortunately the Hungarian economy will drink the money. What unsubstantiated, unsubstantiated calculations I'm talking about? The energy supplier's special tax: 42.8 percent lower than the planned budget last year. The appropriation included HUF 61.1 billion, compared with the actual performance of HUF 35 billion. So, ladies and gentlemen, when there is a 42.8 percent difference between the government's budget revenue and what has actually been achieved, I think there is a good reason for the opposition to say that there was no sound policy behind this special tax. In fact, we are also right to talk about the fact that someone has to answer for this in practice, because someone has misplaced something very badly. We're not talking small change, I can mention tens of billions of forints. In any case, at the level of the energy tax, budget revenue is still below the actual value achieved. There is a difference of 54,1 per cent between budget appropriations and actual performance in the case of the cata. Of this tax, the government expected HUF 78 billion in revenue, compared with HUF 42.2 billion. There's a big difference here again. Obviously, Mr State Secretary, since I consider you to be a policy-makers, unlike many others, you can say that this is basically a benefit of the budget, since it is a tax that provides a lower tax rate for some entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs argue that because some of them do not enter this tax because they think they would not benefit, and I suspect that the entrepreneur is better able to account for his own finances than the government, but in any case the fact is that there was a significant difference in this tax. In the case of small company tax, the performance was 28 per cent compared to the initial allocation. So the values in the appropriations differ significantly from what has actually been achieved, and I say, Mr State Secretary, that this is a phenomenon of unsubstantiated professional work, a lack of background studies that we have now faced. I think it is important to say that the transaction fee, which now adds HUF 277,9 billion to the budget, is still missing from the pockets of Hungarian citizens. When the government made sure to introduce the transaction fee, we drew attention to the fact that the whole financial sector will be affected by this special burden, this tax burden is in practice, because although it is called a levy, it is actually a fiscal revenue that functions as a tax. We drew the government's attention that, given the logic of the market, if all competitors will receive the same tax burden, they will transfer this tax to Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses. This was done, as already in December, customers were told how the transaction fees will change at the bank in the following year, and interestingly, transaction fees have changed with almost all banks as much as the government imposed a transaction fee on small businesses and individuals alike. That's what we drew attention to. We have repeatedly stated that, in principle, the law provides that the burden bearing the burden, the ultimate burden on this measure, is the financial institution sector. However, neither the government responded to this, nor the PSZÁF, which was responsible for financial supervision, and later the National Bank of Hungary, did not react to this. [[15.20]] So I say, Mr Secretary of State - and this is supported by a number of professional studies and professional treatise - that the HUF 277,9 billion that has flown into the state register is almost entirely missing tax from the pockets of Hungarian businesses and Hungarian private individuals. That's what the government said you shouldn't be afraid of, because this tax burden is going to be so undetectable. If we redistribute it to a private individual, we can see that nearly HUF 30 thousand per person per year is the burden that we are obliged to pay in this way within the Hungarian economy. I think it is very important, Mr Secretary of State, what we have just had at the Economic Committee meeting. There we held a debate on how the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's profit and loss accounts are going to take place. At a time when we address this significant item of HUF 100 billion, the government regularly defends itself with the fact that it is the independence of the central bank. A lack of ownership control such as we can now observe at the National Bank of Hungary that the State acting as shareholder cannot represent its ownership interests within the National Bank of Hungary, because it has been completely separated from it, there is virtually no precedent throughout Europe. I ask the Secretary of State, you are an economic policyman, at least you should be pleased to see how, for example, the results of the UK central bank's clearance of accounts is in practice compared to the Hungarian central bank's clearance of results. I cannot accept the political explanation given by the government as to why men's retirement after 40 years of employment is not being introduced. The government said that because it does not have the roughly HUF 150 billion available, it is estimated that HUF 200 billion will cost this measure. This is a false explanation, because then how can the Hungarian National Bank spend more than HUF 160 billion a year on foundations named after Pallas Athena, and launch an art purchase, castle purchase and renovation program. Is it really more important to cover these luxurious expenses by György Matolcsy than to ensure that a man who has pulled the yoke and paid taxes on the Hungarian budget for four decades can finally retire? I consider it particularly important to highlight this in the light of the fact that 25 percent of Hungarian men are not even worth the retirement age. This is an issue, Mr Secretary of State, which you must address on both a fair and a social basis. The total burden is not even this amount, it is not this HUF 150-200 billion, because think that the affected age group lives in a significant part on social assistance, income support, and according to the data of the KSH, only four of the ten people of the age group aged 55-64 have jobs in Hungary. Six people of this age group don't work. And of the four people involved, on average, he spends his days as a public worker. So when I strongly ask the government to make it possible, in line with Jobbik's aspirations, for a man to retire after four decades of work, it is also necessary to see the economic basis for this, in the first place, to devote the social expenditure on the budget to this age group, and the actual burden is much lower than that which otherwise appears in the pension fund. I also think it is important to say what my colleague Gúr has just said here, that the government has promised 1 million new jobs, and Fidesz's election programme before 2010 stated that this 1 million new jobs will be created by Hungarian businesses. The government did not say that we would soon become a country of public workers, and that hundreds of thousands of people would be employed as public workers for less than the minimum wage, the government said that these jobs would be created at Hungarian businesses. If you look at these Hungarian businesses, Mr Secretary of State, what you can see is that there is very little value added in this area, and the role of the Hungarian economy in recent years has become increasingly marginalized compared to foreign businesses established here. I think it is important to say, Mr Secretary of State, that the Hungarian budget has supported passenger transport by HUF 185.5 billion - this means supporting public transport - MÁV has received HUF 141.5 billion, and the various Volán companies have received HUF 33.5 billion for their interurban flights, but there are huge anomalies within this system. Let me give you one specific example, I know that this is a time-frame debate, and we cannot do anything. At our Mayor of Ozd, David Janiczak, we were confronted with the fact that the Gypsies of Oz regularly travel on the bus with a health card that gives him the right not only to travel for free on the intercity flight, but also by the man who escorts him. More than once, these people agree with the people who are also waiting for the bus that they can be their escorts for half the fare, and in this way they can practically travel on the bus for free. When we faced the fact that some of the Roma in Ozdon complement their income in this way, we made our proposals to the government to stop this anomaly, because it is an abusive application of the social policy discount that we want to enforce in relation to travel. I ask the government to fill these holes, because - once again - we are talking about budget expenditure of nearly HUF 200 billion, a significant part of which would be saved if these abuses were not typical. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-07-70	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély.
u2015-10-07-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I don't know why you're wondering why we're criticizing. When the budget debate was - you know very well, because you were sitting here for a few days - you said, as secretary of state, that we opposition politicians are irresponsible because we are submitting too many amendments, and the other Secretary of State, Katalin Novak, said that you should feel free, feel free, as much as possible. Although I would add that in the last year, since I have been a Member, it could be said that you have voted off everything, at least the pro-government representatives have voted off everything if the proposal is to improve or not. Allow me now, if no amendments are accepted, let us at least make a criticism of the budget and then of the closing accounts. I listened to the speeches from the government side and from you, and they constantly stressed that they were family-friendly, family-friendly, family-friendly. They stopped using it during a certain period of time, but it seems to be coming up again at closing hours. I'd like to ask you some questions, Mr. Secretary. It applies mainly to government representatives, and especially to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, if you have performed so well over the past six years - because let's not just talk about this one year - then tell me that there may still be child poverty in Hungary. That we can talk about the fact that to date, having children is the greatest risk of poverty in Hungary. Each research reveals that the greatest risk of poverty in Hungary is childbearing. It has not improved by a single spark or even deteriorated in the last five years. But let's go back to the fact that in 2014 KSH didn't dare to publish data on poverty in September, and then gave-and-go in Parliament, and then in November it was able to publish these data after the prepared material of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, because after the Hungarian Academy of Sciences couldn't do so much as a thread that the KSH didn't do its job, he himself had a study done. We have also faced some pretty bad data in this regard. It's kind of interesting when they say they're doing everything for families. It would be very nice to hear the opinion of Viktor Orbán once. Do you even know what's going on here? It can be said in communication a hundred, a thousand times a day that family-friendly measures, family-friendly measures, just have to come to the countryside and see how the countryside itself is emptying out, how young people leave, and see how many percent of young people under 18 want to leave the country after graduation. Not after college or college, but after graduation. We're not talking about 50 percent anymore, but over 90 percent of 20 people under the age of 18 say they want to leave this country. I would also like to draw your attention to a few things about why we should say that the 2014 budget was also unfair. In 2014, we paid more taxes than we did when the government changed in 2010 and the burden increase again hit millions of low incomes most sensitively. [[15.30]] On average, tax rules changed every two weeks, and the number of new taxes introduced by Fidesz was close to 30. We've told you a lot about tax breaks, and I'd just like to give you one piece of data. Only a very narrow circle, the highest incomes, the upper fifth of the employees, can fully benefit from the tax relief of the three children. You know, over 90 percent of women with three children are inactive, Mr. Secretary of State. In the last year, the cost of operating the Hungarian state increased both in absolute terms and in proportion, while the value of social and welfare expenditure decreased. The government has not only spent less on welfare expenditure than planned, but also less than in 2013. I have already said this before, while in 2013 the state spent 30.9 percent of GDP on welfare expenditure, only 28.7 percent in 2014. Interesting, if everything's so fine, why did these numbers come out? The state spent 15.3 per cent in 2010, 19.1 per cent in 2011, 15.1 per cent in 2012, 16.8 per cent in 2013, and then rose to 18.1 per cent again. He said several times that the 2014 budget was not an election budget. Then allow me to warn you of a few things, Mr. Secretary. In 2014, in the year of the election, the government could have over HUF 100 billion without minimal control. I would like to list a few items of the amount available, Mr Secretary of State. Before the elections, Veszprém was given 718 million forints, and they took over the interest debts of the local arena, more than 600 million forints. Welt 2000 Kft. received HUF 800 million. purchase and consultancy fees. The Prime Minister's Office received HUF 3 billion for its additional tasks. Orbán is preparing for his move to Buda Castle for 750 million HUF this year. The professionally flawed public textbook service, which was criticized by teachers, was provided with HUF 8.8 billion extra funding in 2014. Bank purchase was HUF 17.1 billion, and Várkert bazaar was handed over three times, which cost the voters only HUF 20 million. Really, in the year of the election, we can't talk about an election budget. But that's not the full list, Mr. Secretary. I have repeatedly said that the success of a government can be measured by the birth rate of how many children are born in Hungary. In 2011, there was a very bad figure when the number of live births in Hungary barely exceeded 88 thousand, and then in 2012-13 there was a minimal improvement. And we kept listening to the press where the secretary of state spoke, where the fidesz politicians, that now, the result of family-friendly governance is ripe, now more children are born, and then everything will be fine. It is true that this 2-3 percent increase, of course, every born child should be welcomed, very few results can be considered. And I am afraid of the publication of the latest data, where, as the last figure in 2014, we can say a 0.7 percent increase in the positive impact of family policy measures. The top one fifth who was the winner of these family policy measures, the single-key tax, the introduction of the 16 per cent tax, the second or third child that they were able to take up, but at about the end of the year, I hope it will not happen that we will actually see that the positive impact of the family policy measures has come to an end here. In addition, I have not yet received an answer, and I keep asking the question of how many percent of children registered abroad are included in birth data in the data published by the HCSO. Because, Mr. State Secretary, children who are registered abroad, who are registered for Hungarian citizens, are now included in the data of the HCSO. To this day, we have not received an answer. That would be interesting to know. And here, when we talk about family-friendly measures, my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, has repeatedly said what is the biggest problem, why it is not growing more drastically if governance is so good, the number of births of children. Because, Mr. Secretary, women who could have children in this country are no longer in this country. The age group that should be giving birth now, despite wagging its head, Secretary of State, is no longer having their children in Hungary, but abroad. And children who are born abroad can't come home even if they come home because the birth system often prevents them from doing so. We know this from the scandal of the last few years. The other thing is that if we are talking about Hungary today, what my fellow Member said, that a million new jobs have been promised, what do you think, Mr Secretary, today a young community worker is looking for? I'll tell you what, no. That's not what he wants. He doesn't want to find his way through community service. To add, you can't even find it, and you can't start a family on it, you can't plan on it. You guys are so protective of this community service program. Well, Secretary of State, if I wanted to be very cynical, I wouldn't want to hurt you, because at least you're sitting here, but I want your fellow Members to be involved. One more thing about family-friendly governance is that the role of women is constantly mentioned. Yesterday, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán expressed his opinion on the role of women. I just want to quote you. At a small meeting, Viktor Orbán was asked why the number of upper female leaders was so low, and here they thought about ministers, because there are no female ministers, and it is very low, I understand, there are 7 state ministers among the innumerable State Secretarys. Orbán said: for example, because Hungarian politics is basically based on continuous character killings. It creates a brutal situation that needs to be tolerated, but women can't stand it. Yes, this one sentence is generally projected on Fidesz's family policy and women's policy. I would just like to ask you a few questions, and this is specifically addressed to Viktor Orbán and his government and its representatives: how does Viktor Orbán know what we do not have? He doesn't know that because he's a man. The other is character murder. Well, then, I think he's typical of telling me what Fidesz-KDNP's policy is. With this one sentence, Viktor Orbán has told us what policy he has been pursuing over the past five years. And then we're surprised that women won't do it? Yeah. Yes, then Viktor Orbán gave the answer as to why they would not undertake it, or why they did not want more women in this masculine world at all. Believe me, we don't want women not to play a part in this. So, in closing, Mr. Secretary, I would like to ask you, in most cases, not to take criticism as an attack. The criticism must be accepted, and sometimes I would ask you, although it is not your fault, because you will not determine the line of the ruling party's policy, but you should ask the pro-government representatives or your government to take a more positive stance on the opposition, because it is not certain that what you see is the truth. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-10-07-72	I am now giving Mr Jenő Manninger the opportunity to make a two-minute comment.
u2015-10-07-73	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Well, no one claims to be able to tell the truth perfectly, but opposition representatives, I think, are talking absolutely not about the truth, but about their own passions, which can be partly understood, because indeed, those who brought the country into crisis before 2010 are the socialists, it is very difficult for them to talk about such a 2014 budget, which is not a crisis budget, but, as we called it, a budget for cuts in bills. [[15.40]] The macro numbers are also very good, so the only thing they can create is that they are trying to talk about various problems based on so-called social sensitivity, in which, of course, there can be truth, because, as I said, no one claims that all social problems have been solved. But let us be allowed to talk about what the government has done not only in the 2014 budget and what is included in the budget, if the representative speaking before me is constantly talking about eating children and starving children - because he seems to be trying to campaign with this - then let us talk about what he has done about eating children. I think that if you compare it here with the socialist era, you could see only a positive one, because in 2014 - that is, in the debate now - there are 28 billion forints, in 2015 there is 58 billion forints and in 2016 there is 70 billion forints for the free meal of children, which is virtually possible to get children a free meal for the net earnings below 130 thousand forints/persons. I think this is a serious achievement, and this has been achieved by the current government. It is difficult to acknowledge this, but unfortunately I must say that it must be understood as a positive, which has not been done before. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-07-74	I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr for two minutes.
u2015-10-07-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just so much to my fellow Member Manninger - I will not go into repetitions, I will not say, no, no, no, that the good year of agriculture, the money market, the oil price, the halving of the gas price, no, I will not go to the bottom of these - I just want to say that these are facts. It is also a fact that poverty has grown over this five-year period, and you have not been involved in mitigating this process when it should have been done - I cannot even talk about prevention before it - but when faced with problems such as those, you are trying to create a small solution. In English: they do it to destroy everything first, it doesn't matter, let's be deep, and then they raise the story a little bit, and then they bring it to you. So that's not your job. Your job today is to do better than what was yesterday, and tomorrow better than what is today. You have allowed for a long time that this is not the case, and then you want to make a positive change in this. One more thing, Mr. Secretary. For the third time, I ask you not to do it in your summary, when we will not be able to talk about it, tell me exactly what the government's relationship is - not necessarily to you, the government, but also to you - about your promise of a million new jobs in the economy. And not only do I want to know about your relationship, but I want to know exactly how much you have created a new job in the economy. Tell me, in addition, what is the relationship between the minimum wage and the minimum wage, not the gross, net, but the purchasing power value that people have in their hands, and what is their relationship with the purchasing power of the public employees, which is one third less. Talk about these, because, once again, a country works well when people in it live well, live better today than they did yesterday. And my last sentence is to make a social referendum in this, not in what they want to confirm. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] on issues of this type, to see the reality. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-10-07-76	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő.
u2015-10-07-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Nándor Gúr to recall the promises made by the then opposition in 2010 before the elections and to recall the reaction to these promises. Fidesz-KDNP then set itself the goal of creating a million new jobs within ten years. Why a million jobs? Because close to Hungary there is a similar historical country with economic potential, the Czech Republic, where the population is roughly the same and where the number of people employed is one million higher. We are in a period - as Congressman Attila Mesterházy pointed out - that in 2008-2009 there was a very serious economic crisis that shocked Europe as a whole and that did not go away in 2010: we remember that the Greek debt crisis gave another boost to this problem and that in 2012 the European Union's economy was shrinking. In this situation, it was considered impossible to create a million jobs in ten years. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It didn't work! Nándor Gúr: The farm!]] Let's see what we can do. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] Please don't argue with the facts. [[Nándor Gúr: The farm! Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: No way!]] 500 000 new jobs have been created [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Where?]] in the last five years 500,000 people have new jobs. Show me, Congressman, show me one more European country where employment has grown at this level. Show me one, Congressman. Mr. President.
u2015-10-07-78	[[It's ringing.]] Fellow Members! Please accept the Secretary of State's words, and he'll explain, but that's his business. Please calm down, fellow Members.
u2015-10-07-79	Congressman! If I may, I, near the crown of St. Stephen, in the House of Parliament, think that due respect can be given to each other. You asked me specific questions, and I'm trying to answer your question, not at the very end of your request, but when you asked. [[Nándor Gúr: In fact!]] I'll give you a real answer. Please check the numbers and then answer my question whether you can say, on the basis of economic developments, another country in Europe that could achieve such an increase in employment from a similar starting point. And, Congressman, answer me how many people have migrated from Hungary after joining the European Union in 2004 thanks to free labour migration. And answer whether employment opportunities improved before 2010 or after 2010! Was there more new jobs before or after 2010? I repeat, there has undoubtedly been an economic crisis that has shocked most of Europe's countries. A separate question is that this economic crisis has welcomed Hungary in a bled state and there has been a very rapid economic collapse. It was unprecedented in comparison with other countries, just because public finances were completely unsustainable, there was no growth, there was minimal growth compared to the EU environment, there was no real convergence. So my answer to your question is that, in line with the government promise, new jobs have been created, during the last period, in recent years, most of these new jobs are created in the competition sector, and even if you look at the five years, half of the new jobs are created in the competition sector. Why? Because in this economic situation, which you have been talking about, the government has, after 2010, found the means to achieve substantial economic growth, the deficit can be kept low and employment can be increased. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-07-80	I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy in a normal time frame.
u2015-10-07-81	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Allow me to respond to some of the comments that have been made here in the debate. With that sentence, I would agree with Lajos Szűcs in any way that we should thank the Hungarian people for the sacrifice they have shown during the previous Fidesz government in the past year, because, as I tried to draw attention to this in my comment, these macroeconomic data have indeed cost Hungarian families very serious money. It is not true that - at the level of slogans, of course, it can be emphasized - this is a family-friendly government. We in the opposition are used to supplement this with one word, a family-friendly government, but in general, this is not a family-friendly government. The Secretary of State also pointed out that family tax incentives were used to compensate for the delay. Please, most of the family tax benefits, two thirds of them, cannot be used by the Hungarian families, because they do not have such a salary, or they are not fully able to use it - perhaps more precisely, because they do not have the monthly income from which I could benefit from the full amount of benefits. [[15.50]] That is why we said that this is not a good way or a sufficient way to support and help Hungarian families, in particular larger families. This is why we have had a number of initiatives that, from the start of the family bonus, would have tried to compensate for this hiatus by many other tax means, and would have put the Hungarian tax system or, in this sense, this kind of social support policy that would make it available to everyone, and, as a result of our conviction, a social democrat, based on left-wing belief, would have helped those who need it more and, less so, those who have a higher salary. Mr Manninger's words on child hunger: I think that the reason why a pro-government Member should be more careful in this is because no one can be satisfied with the situation until there is only one starving child in Hungary. We have said this several times, and my fellow Member Ildikó Borbély also said that it is welcome that the resources that the government is using to eradicate child hunger are growing. In this, we believe that it was also part of the fact that for years the socialist MEPs demanded this hard and decisively and drew attention to this situation. However, in the State Audit Office's report, if I remember correctly, it is written that 8-15 billion HUF of funding is still missing in order to meet its requirements. Thus, while this amount has indeed increased to around 70 billion, it has not been fully guaranteed. So one of the tasks is to get what's in the budget and then get it done. The other, which, in a very simple comparison, is certainly correct, while we are spending 70 billion on this, and yet children are starving in Hungary, while we are renovating the Puskás stadium for 80 billion. So if you want to add something to the scale of the resources and how happy we are by increasing these resources, then you can add another measure immediately, which is that we are still not spending as much on it as the planned renovation cost of the Puskás Stadium. Not to mention that we are slowly spending more than HUF 200 billion on football stadiums, and it does not seem to have greatly increased the level of Hungarian football. And I'm pretty sure that it would be good in a whole other place and that there would be room for these funds, these resources. The Secretary of State has also spoken about public work, and I think that we fully agree to a border, and I also think that public work is a good way for people who have been excluded from the labour market or have been out of the labour market for a long time, to somehow give a way back, which must be a state-supported or a subsidised way back, perhaps so that the wording is simple. I just think the government stopped halfway through this. And I say this because I have Nándor Gúr sitting next to me, who, in fact, took the initiative at the time of the previous socialist government - there was also a public work programme at the time of our government, not on such a scale, not under such conditions, but there was public employment. I remember we spent 80-100 billion forints a year on it. So I absolutely don't think it's wrong for the government to try and have such an initiative. Where I see the problem, it is that there is no further consideration of what is happening to people who have already entered public employment, they are there, and it would be good to move them - now in a good sense - to jobs in the normal economy. So I imagined for myself that public employment was the hallway, so to speak, but we should somehow take people into the living room so that they can sit down, so that they feel comfortable in the long term. To do so, we need to be able to lead these people to jobs in the economy, and not to keep the former unemployed in this public employment, but to have a absorption effect on the economy, and then to really solve the lives of these people in the long term. And it is also certain - and there have been some of these government sentences, I agree - that there will be many people stuck in this situation and that they will not be able to return to the labour market in the long term or in any other way. For this reason, I am quite certain that this public employment is a long-term employment policy instrument. I just think with this training, with further training, that if they don't have to draw a stick and add the two to the two, they might be trained in a real lack of skills that give them a real profession, then there's absolutely no way to move forward. So we simply say that good employment data is misleading. While no one said that we were sad about such data, we just said that it would not be sustainable in the long term, because it would not be possible to keep everyone and people in this public employment ever growing. That is why we say that moving forward should be ensured. Now I'm going to put in parentheses for the time being how conditions, pay, and the rest of the time go, and I'm sure those who are better able to argue about this will be able to argue for a very long time. So in Hungarian, we criticise the fact that good unemployment or employment data from the other side, which do not structurally solve the problem, they only deal with a crisis situation temporarily, but we believe that in the long term it would be in the interest of the Hungarian nation to find a structural solution to this issue, and we would certainly be partners in this. In fact, I also say, and I also represented it in the election campaign, that I can agree with the government's intention that the state does have a job in the labour market, in employment policy. So in Hungarian: the market will not solve everything. So where the economy cannot create jobs or does not want to create jobs, the state has a role to play, it has a task to enter as not only a regulator, but also an initiative. But unfortunately, it is also true of the other side or the other side of the coin that less jobs have been created in the economy than previously promised. And, Mr. Secretary of State, believe me that I followed the 2010 elections very carefully, given that I was a candidate, and believe me that Viktor Orbán and Fidesz did not understand the million new jobs as you now say in hindsight, so as not to take it personally. They mean that a million new jobs will be created in the economy in ten years. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs' intervention.]] Not the number pumped up with the community service program. And, yes, that didn't work. There are many reasons for this, we said that this is a number that is nice round, but it certainly will not succeed. In 10th, 11th, 12th, 13th, 14th we also indicated where the so-called 100,000 jobs were missing from the economy. And in the unfavourable investor environment that is currently in Hungary, so as the assessment of foreigners in this respect, there is no realistic possibility of creating 100,000 new jobs in the economy, unfortunately. Not to mention - and this was our other type of proposal - that it is not enough to create jobs, but also to have decent wages. Therefore, in any case, the government must move towards reducing income differences and encouraging employers to increase wages in the economic sector. There was indeed a 3.6 percent, if I remember correctly, minimum wage increase, but neither could it - and I think your minister also said that this is not a powerful and not a significant wage increase. And then he stopped ringing around the economy in terms of jobs. So we say that every Hungarian person should have a decent job and also a decent wage, which he can earn a living from. And in fact, they say that a good employment policy also means a good social policy, because many problems no longer appear in the case of families. The other, and I think it is also worth saying, is that a lot of people have left the country and have gone abroad to work. I think it is no exaggeration to say that since 1956 there have not been as many people left Hungary as there have been in the past four or five years. And indeed, these people are trained, mobile, because not only did they move from Szabolcs to Sopron, but they were willing to go even further away, risking their families, their friendships, etc.; people who spoke languages who, in London, Berlin and Austria, are absorbed by the labour market. And today, not only young people leave the country, but also older people or young people who have long since left the country, from the hairdresser to the engineer. [[16.00]] And, you know, the problem with that is that you can be happy, because it also counts as employment figures, but the problem is that, on the one hand, these people are leaving, and on the other hand, when we ask them to tell us how long they plan to stay out there, when they want to come back to Hungary, the answer is that it is even more tragic than ever. So once you find your calculations out there, anywhere in Europe, it's a lot harder for you to want to come home. Therefore, I think it is commendable that the government's intention is to try to bring these young people home, but with this programme that you are now engaged in, I think it will not bring much success, because the suction effect and the benefits there are certainly greater than what the current government can or would like to promise these people. The other thing that we do not understand exactly in terms of economic policy is, I am sorry, before that, I would like to respond to an EU sentence, which was mentioned by the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State said that we have been members of the EU since 2004, so in Hungarian, since then the European Union funds have always included economic growth. This is absolutely the case, and I believe that this has always been part of the growth of Hungarian GDP. I merely suggested in my comment that the current rate of these sources, which we were able to draw in 2014, is so great that, as such, the engine of Hungarian economic growth cannot be repeated the following year. There will certainly still be a serious amount, and that will largely be the reason for the Hungarian GDP growth, but this magnitude will not be available. That is why I said that this type of growth is not sustainable and that the deceleration will in any way take place. I wouldn't want to start an economic debate with you right now, because there's not enough time for inflation to be zero or negative, there's a debate about whether it's good for the economy in the long run or not, I don't think it's good for the economy, but I wouldn't agree to that right now. It must be good for the residents, for the families, because they did not experience it as a price increase, or at least to a lesser extent. The other sentence is that the government had an initiative, this so-called Eastern opening policy and the southern opening policy, and this closing statement does not reveal - from the underlying data I received from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other data, statistical data - that it would have been so successful. Rather, we see that Hungary has been able to increase its exports to the EU, and it has increased there, while Russia, China, and other countries, so to speak, have failed to do so, and that the opening of the South has not, in any way, been perfected in such a nasty way. So I think that there would still be a lot of potential in this, which would be worth taking advantage of, it would be worth encouraging, but not with rhetoric, that where Hungarian exports are growing towards, so where our trade relations are growing and improving, this European Union, we are constantly making our relationship and partnership worse with these countries, and in the other direction, where we are not very successful, we are constantly making money. Although I would add that the Arab countries too, when the Prime Minister talks about the threat of Islam, are likely to invest in Hungary with less willingness and less joy in Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-07-82	I now give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter in a normal time frame.
u2015-10-07-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, There has been a number of comments, and my fellow Member, István Tukacs, has also pointed out that we clearly have a bill on how the 2014 budget has been implemented and how the figures and rates have been achieved. It is quite clear that it could not be here in front of us if there were more serious problems. The problem is that the 2014 budget itself was a tragedy in itself, and unfortunately it seems that this trend has not changed since then, so that is basically our problem, and I would like to emphasise it. I would like to turn back to the issue of security, because there are many dimensions of security, as my fellow Members have spoken in many of their speeches on the issue of social security, and they have listed the very serious problems that prevent us from talking about social security in Hungary. We can talk about the issue of public security in the security dimension, and, by the way, I would like to turn back to the Hungarian Defence Office for a few more sentences. The reason why I asked you to pay more attention to the Hungarian Defence and Defence Department chapter is because, in addition to the arguments listed in my previous speech, in the last five years, we have witnessed a withdrawal of funds, especially for the 2010-2014 cycle, when the Hungarian Defence budget has fallen to a historic low point below 1 percent of GDP. The highest low was 0.69 percent of GDP. Never since the change of regime, so in the last 25 years, the military budget has not fallen to such a low point. This meant that in those four years a total of HUF 250 billion was withdrawn from the operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces, which is a total annual budget for the defence, and it is quite clear that such a withdrawal could limit development opportunities and conditions for improving operating conditions for decades. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Therefore, in addition to the continuous increase that the government has promised - there is a promise that the budget will continue to increase by 0.1 percent each year - it is clear that additional resources are needed. But if we're talking about extra resources, we shouldn't be thinking about the resources that the Ministry of Defense gets to do extra tasks. I am thinking, for example, of the state event organisation, which has been transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Defence, and the Ministry has received significant extra resources for this, but it is quite clear that these additional resources do not improve basic tasks and functionality, and they can be measured in the order of billions already in 2015. I think that these resources would be a better place if the government and the Ministry of Defence used them to carry out the basic tasks. So we can say that the organisation of events is clearly not the main task of the military, nor of the Ministry of Defence. I would like to say a few sentences here on transparency, as the issue of transparency has been raised in several chapters. It is clear that, for example, in the case of the Hungarian Defence Office and the Ministry of Defence, this could be a question - on the one hand, transparency and, on the other hand, the question of the public - I agree that, yes, there may be cases, real national interests and national security interests, which otherwise restrict the possibilities of the public. Basically, that wouldn't be a problem. The huge problem is that there is already a passage in the 2011 Defense Act, according to which any data concerning the operation and specific data and numbers of the defence is not public data for 30 years. Thus, the government significantly limits both the possibility of the public and transparency. So I think that there is a healthy measure of this. In fact, there may be issues in which, due to national security interests, there cannot be any public knowledge, but it can never undermine transparency, because in such cases, as there are representatives, there is a committee, there are several committees, members of which have the appropriate personal security certificate, type C due diligence, transparency in all circumstances, if not elsewhere, in these committees, the process of procurement, by presenting the strategy, must indeed be ensured, and access to appropriate documents should also be provided. And what can happen in recent years, I would really like to bring up two examples in the first place, but we have seen a number of cases where this kind of transparency, such as the ad hoc purchase of the three Mi-8 helicopters in the spring of 2014, just a few days before the elections, or even HM EI Zrt. The case of the renovation of the headquarters. [[16.10]] These are all matters in which transparency is and should have been needed. Of course, we look forward to investigations being carried out in these matters, and also to the fact that, both before the Defence and Police Committee and in the form of access to documents, Parliamentary control, parliamentary control, which ensures transparency, is indeed possible. And by the way, this is not a matter of purchasing, but of course we will also be waiting for further information on the Gripen and Jak-52 incidents. As regards the implementation of the 2014 budget, I would also like to mention a few things in the case of the Ministry of Interior. I would like to quote from this presentation on the Immigration and Nationality Office. Due to the drastic increase in the number of asylum seekers, the government provided additional resources during the year for 60 staff development, as well as for the establishment of 300 reception stations from containers at the premises of the Szeged Penitentiary and Prison in Nagyfai. I quote this from the current accounts, which refers to the year 2014. And if we look at the figures in this sentence, it is also incomprehensible what we have said several times in recent months, and slowly in years, that information was available already in 2014, and the government could have known what refugee situation, what kind of refugee wave could possibly be expected. There was plenty of time to prepare for this, of course the Immigration and Nationality Office could have prepared for this in this way. We saw that this year hundreds of people had to be hired by the D.A. during the summer. It is rather strange that the government was in possession of the information, but for the year 2014, it found a total of 60 people, as the closing accounts show. It is related to the Ministry of Interior that I would like to highlight in every way the same problem with law enforcement agencies, which also applies to the army, the question of those in the status of civil servants. It is therefore necessary that the civil servants' salary base be raised, and those who have been left out of the current salary development and are talking about thousands of tens of thousands of stock size orders will also receive the appropriate compensation and increase, and the development of salaries for their work. In the case of the Ministry of Interior, we have seen that these were used from EU development resources in a relatively large scale, but we have also seen that budget support itself has not increased substantially. I would also like to point out here that we are talking about the performance of public safety tasks and the performance of law enforcement tasks. So there is no way that this area can remain without resources. However, we can see that there are priority areas, such as the Counter-Terrorism Center. Here, the fact that while the funding of the Counter-Terrorism Centre is, in a way, skyrocketing continues to cause serious tensions in the population, otherwise there is no adequate source for other areas. And what I would like to ask about the Ministry of Interior chapter, Minister of State, it is necessary to point out to the Government in every way, and I regret that there are so few of us here now, that the government has promised a career for law enforcement agencies, just as the Hungarian Army has done in the case of the Hungarian Defence Office, but the new law of service, which applied to domestic law, was amended by the Government before the entry into force. As a result, until 1 January 2019, i.e. after the elections in 2018, the government shifted the substance of the law itself, the application of this system of salaries. So we are at the point that the law enforcement agencies, although they have received the salary development this year, may have received the promised amount next year, but there is no legal guarantee that this system of promotions and salaries can function properly, because that is exactly what was removed from the law in connection with an amendment. We are talking about the armed forces, law enforcement and defence forces, and I would like to mention one more thing. And this is the matter of the Honvéd Health Fund. Saving more than 27 thousand, mostly military, defense workers, law enforcement personnel, employees and national security workers for HUF 1.8 billion, which was lost in connection with the bankruptcy of Buda-Cash, in the case of the DRB. This is what should be done in any way, because I think that the minimum of appreciation begins here, among other things, that when we talk about 1.8 billion forints, which is really a very small amount compared to the total Hungarian budget, but it means a great deal to the members of the stock, then the government does help us with this issue. I understand all government arguments or ministry arguments when we say, the Ministry of Defence says that they are otherwise legally not involved in this, because, right, only in the name of Honvéd Health Bank of the Honvéd Health Bank. Of course, excuses can be made, and otherwise there are arguments that actually stop, we know that they do, but there is no question that the government cannot stand by and watch what has happened and watch these people not have access to their savings, so there is definitely something to be done about it. The Prime Minister's Office answered my question to examine the possibility of this, so I'm asking Mr Secretary of State if he has anything to say or if he actually knows about this case, whether such a request has already been made to the Ministry of National Economy, whether the matter of these depositors is planned. We know that they weren't stock exchanges, and we know that the ministries themselves transferred the cafeteria to the stock, so since the ministries also thought it was probably safe, I don't think we should blame the stock or members for not having any obligation to invest their money in the Honvéd Health Fund. So it would be good to move towards a solution in this case as well. Thank you very much. [[Nándor Gúr applauds.]]
u2015-10-07-84	Thank you, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. The next speaker is Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP. Mr. Messenger, you have the floor.
u2015-10-07-85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will endeavour to make this my last speech, only if I hear revelations not equivalent to reality, say, on the side of the governing party or on the part of the secretary of state. But I hope that doesn't happen. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai touched on the promises made in 2010. I'm not going to get into this, maybe you weren't so intense in the campaign at the time, I'd like to tell you that there were promises that were going to be in order in two weeks. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs's name.]] Now, I don't want to tell you how the statistical processing of crimes happens, what it doesn't show you, as it did before. I don't want to go into detail. I'm just telling you how to make new statistics, make it look like something's better, and it's not. Or they said there'd be a radical tax reduction. You have to turn it up, you know, the little yellow one, just the Fidesz! And then radical tax cuts, and then you know that they have introduced nearly 30 new taxes that have caused thousands of billions of forints of burdens on businesses and the population. Or the third, and I'm gonna anchor here a little bit, they promised to create a million new jobs in the economy. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: In ten years!]] In ten years, that's right, so factually, one million new jobs in the economy in ten years. Well, I'd like to say we're halfway through; we're halfway through, we've been ruling for the sixth year. [[16.20]] Now let's see what's going on in these ten years - but that won't be for you, unfortunately, because there are only eight; but whatever the hell it is - over five years. KSH. You'll take that, won't you? So KSH: about the 15-74 age group - I give average employment data for the whole year 2009 - 3 million 748 thousand people. I see you're punching him in the machine, Mr. Secretary; that's okay, because at least you can fix it clean. 3 million 748 thousand. In 2014, this figure was 4 million to 101,000 people, and I rounded it up: 4 million to 101,000 people. It seems that the difference in this respect is 353 thousand people. Looks like 353,000 people. Now, that's the statistics. Then let's look at the reality of the statistics. I'll give you four items to scuba after, and then you'll face it. In 2009, the average number of employment and public employment was between 40 and 50 thousand. In 2014 between 200 and 210,000 people. The difference between this and 160,000 people who have become unemployed and employed in public is, you know, two-thirds as much money as they received five years ago in purchasing power. So 160,000 people. In 2009, the number of people working abroad and counted into Hungarian statistics, who did work not more than a year ago, was between 15 and 20 thousand people; and in 2014 there were 110 thousand people. The difference here is about 90 to 100 thousand people. Only these two items together, 160 plus 100, it is 260 thousand people, who are not in the economy, but partly in public employment and abroad, who are recorded, registered and registered in Hungarian statistics - as if they were working in Hungary. You sort of chased them out of here because you have to earn your living somewhere else, but you're listed here in the statistics as if you were employed here. You can fool each other, it just doesn't make much sense, because then we'll go into the details, and we'll step on the stage of reality, and I'll prove to you that the increase of 353 thousand people, which, on average in the years 2009 and 2014, shows itself in line with the employment of the 15-74-year-olds, if I just look at these two items, is about to shrink to 93 thousand. I'll give you a third movement. You've turned a lot of 8-hour jobs into 4 hours. The four-hour employment place appears in the statistics in the same way as if it were eight hours, while you get half as much money, but you're statistically registered as one, just like the eight-hour one. In other words, there were 55 thousand such surplus people in relation to 2009 and 2014. If I'm being fair, I'm not counting 55,000 people, but I'm halving 27,500, roughly 30,000 people in the stats, because they made two four hours out of eight hours, and the two four-hours are not registered as one, like the eight-hour, but as two. So let's be fair, let's not talk about a $55,000 surplus, just $30,000, $27,500. So about the 30,000 and the 160 plus 100,000 are 290,000. 353 thousand people together with the original surplus 2009 and 14 and the three items together, the increase in public employment, the employment abroad, who are counted into the Hungarian statistics - only those who are counted into the Hungarian statistics! - in terms of growth, that nearly 100,000 people, and the 8-hour to 4-hour surplus of 30,000 statistically speaking, that brings out 290 thousand. So the difference is 63,000 people. I don't want to talk about the fact that there may have been a statistically 10-15 thousand more in student employment; no, I don't want to go any further and show even more details, these three are enough. If you sum up these three items, then, Mr. Secretary, you will realize that maximum - maximum! - in the competitive sphere, there could have been a job of about 60,000 - not so many, because I didn't open the details - if I had just taken these three numbers as a basis. Not a million! And a cycle has passed, a four-year government has passed, and even a little beyond that, because the 2014 data did not cover May 2014 but carried the full year of 2014. In Hungarian, in four and a half years you have created nearly 50-60 thousand jobs in the economy, if I want to be well-intentioned and not start peeping about further processing. 10 percent of what they said, 5 percent of what they promised me for ten years. If I look at it pro rata, let's make it 10 percent of their promise. Well, if they're working with such efficiency and efficiency, then it's better for the country not to do anything! Promise and fulfillment are terribly far apart in this respect. I do not dispute the necessity of public employment, nor do I support it. But what Attila Mesterházy has said, it is not necessary to glue and freeze people into public employment, and not to create a situation in which they themselves feel bad, because in many cases they do not encounter real work, and the story is useless for society - quoted in a quotation mark - because it does not produce economic returns, because it does not bring about a combination of some kind of welfare, a partnership, but rather a type of task that is practically positive to the public's expectations. Well, that's probably the first time; if we have to, we'll go deeper on the statistics on employment policy, the world of work. I would therefore like to ask all pro-government politicians with great respect, but especially the role of the government, that, when throwing employment figures, they should always add to the figures in the light of reality that, yes, a significant proportion of this comes from the increase in public employment; yes, a significant proportion of this is due to the fact that they have been displaced abroad, especially when young people and young people of active age are expanding this employment statistics, and unfortunately not the number of jobs in the competition sector in Hungary. The other thing that has yet to be said is what I have already mentioned today, but I have not even been given an attempt by the Secretary of State to reply. Again, I want to be fair, Mr Secretary of State: I know that today's public employment wage is more than the amount of aid received. Yeah. That's one half of the sentence. That's what you say. I know that and I agree with him. But there is another half of the sentence that I have never heard from your mouth, and that is that the public employment wage that people today receive after their work, at a purchase value, if you go into the store for it, is worth nearly HUF 20,000, one third less than in 2010, when you took over the HUF 60 200. So by increasing the number of public workers by 200,000, I give them a third less worth of money after five years, on the one hand, it's not glory, and I don't think it's fair. [[16.30]] I know it feeds on the fact that you can make a living of 47,000 forints, said Marcell Zsiga and some political actors at the time confirmed it. But I don't think you can make a living with this money, and you know it, and you've realized it since then. Then change this situation, and in terms of wages, as an example for the most vulnerable people - I said, those who work for the public - at least give them the purchasing power money that was in 2010. But I have to say the same thing over and over again in terms of minimum wage. You've put up posters' mountains next to the roads: the minimum wage is increasing. I'm not gonna go into the details again. The gross is yes, the woman, the burden of her contribution is yes, what the employee pays in excess and the employer, even her net, shows a certain level of growth, but her purchasing power is worth less than in 2010. Just counting: it's worth 5 thousand forints less than it was in 2010. If someone says that the minimum wage is growing radically, then note that the rise in the minimum wage will have an impact if people feel it, not if the budget feels it. The minimum wage should not be increased in terms of budgetary revenue as a result of contributions, but in terms of the value of people's and their purchasing power. In this regard, however, you are deceiving people. Do you know when you'd do the right thing? In my opinion, if, for example, they change the fact that for seven years, if I remember correctly, it has not changed in the last year of our governance, for example, the amount of the minimum pension has remained unchanged for seven years. You know that, Mr. Secretary, but help me out if I don't give you the right number: 28 500 forints. It is a shame that 70-80,000 people in this country have to make a living on the amount of the minimum pension of this magnitude. That's what needs to be changed. At least 50,000 forints should be the pension minimum. Or the other item in terms of minimum wage. If you really want a real wage increase for people at the lowest income level, then, yes, not in terms of gross, raise wages in terms of their net value so that it is 100 thousand forints in hand. Yeah, and you can do that without having to pay 16 percent tax on the minimum wage. Yeah, and that can be done in a way that doesn't just burden farmers. And make sure that no one earns less than HUF 150,000 net in terms of public service. Then they will do for the people, then many in this country will live in a much more acceptable, better environment. I think that a government must pursue at least these types of real, useful objectives for people, not to think and act on how to deceive people, how to make them believe it, even by bringing to life ministries that serve this purpose. Or on the public media, let's say, in six years - and then in the next item we will discuss - to install resources of HUF 700 billion in order to carry out government propaganda. I don't want to overdo it. I ask you to do something for the good of the people, not for the wealthy in any way, they will make a living. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] - Yes, I will, Mr President, but in those who definitely need help, and there are millions of them in this country. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Marta Demeter applauds.]]
u2015-10-07-86	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. After no further contributions have been made, the joint general debate is closed. I see that you are preparing, Mr Banai, then I will give the floor to the author of the bill to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Secretary of State Banai.
u2015-10-07-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Today was about implementing the 2014 budget. The budget which, as Mr Tukacs said, was called when we adopted the budget for the reduction of the rent. Why? This is because the government has calculated that the economic processes for 2014 have been determined by the reduction of the overhead, resulting in low inflation, resulting in an increase in purchasing power and, consequently, the growth of the economy and the associated fiscal revenue and expenditure trends. I can see that this budget has been better achieved than the government or Parliament had calculated in advance. Mr Gúr said that promise and realization are often far from each other. The congressman knows that when we watch closing accounts, he can remember those years. [[Nándor Gúr: Talk about 2014.]] Let's say, for the last decade when the government said that the deficit would be 3% or less, and compared to Eurostat data, there were six years in the last decade when the government had either the second largest or the largest government deficit. [[Nándor Gúr: Where were you then?]] I mention this, Mr President, because, thank God, in 2014 when we implement the budget, we see that the differences have all been made in a positive direction. If I mentioned inflation, then instead of projected inflation of 2.4 per cent, inflation was minus 0.2 per cent, thanks to the said reduction in overhead costs and, no doubt, lower oil and commodity prices than planned. [[Nándor Gúr: Close to half.]] The growth of the economy was not 2 per cent, and it was not 3,6 per cent, which was expected a few weeks ago, but, in the framework of the so-called GDP revision in all Member States, it is even higher, 3.7 per cent, based on the latest published figures. In addition, the current account showed an extraordinary amount of activity, representing 4.1 percent of GDP. With regard to macro indicators, it can be said that in 2014, public debt-to-GDP ratio continued to decline. Thanks to these new figures, the EU's methodology at the end of last year showed that the debt-to-GDP ratio was not 76,9 per cent, but 76,2 per cent. This is a decrease of almost 5 percentage points compared to 2011, and there were only four or five countries that were able to reduce public debt in the European Union, including Hungary. As regards the lack of public finances, in 2014, according to the document before the Honourable Parliament, Hungary was able to break out of the circle that marked Hungary in the year of parliamentary elections. It is not the deficit of 9 or more GDP in 2002 or 2006, which we can see, but a deficit of 2.6 per cent instead of the planned 2.9 per cent. I therefore believe that we cannot talk about an election budget, but we see that, in accordance with the provision of the Fundamental Law voted by the new Parliament, the government has implemented a budget that has resulted in a reduction in public debt, and this would not have been possible if it had not kept public finances under control and paid no attention to revenue collection. What do these positive macroeconomic figures mean for people? What did they mean to people in 2014? It meant that the number of employees increased by 5.3 percent. It meant that net real wages increased by 3.2 percent. Here, Mr Volner mentioned that it is in euros, where there is a decrease. But in Hungary we pay by HUF in stores. In Hungary, inflation was in a negative range, not a deflation, which Mr Mesterházy referred to, so, not because of the low economic growth or the decline in the economy, prices have fallen - we could not talk about this at 3.7 percent growth - but because of the reduction in the overhead costs, in addition to external processes. Thus, the increase in real wages and employment shows that the population benefited from this economic policy, from this budget, the implementation of which we see. I also have to say that there were no tax changes, there were no changes in expenditure policy that allowed only one segment of the population or society to benefit from these positives. [[16.40]] Congressman, you know and you have indicated, for example, how minimum wages or civil servants' minimum wages have changed. Mr President, you know very well and you can see in the statistics that real wages have also increased for those employed at minimum wage or for those employed in public employment. Let us then look at a sector or two on which the honourable Members have placed particular emphasis in the debate. On health, we said that, overall, more resources were available in 2014 than in 2013. Allow me to highlight one or two items. Within the Health Insurance Fund, the 2014 performance of the combined specialised care was 106,6 per cent of the 2013 period. In particular, expenditure on active inpatient care increased by 5.6 percent, chronic inpatient care rates increased by 1.5 percent, outpatient care expenditure increased by 1.4 percent compared to 2013. Of course, I agree with the findings that in this area, too, the government has a number of tasks - not even a question - in the area of health, and we have a lot of work to do in many other areas. But the facts so far are worth admitting, the facts cannot be argued with. I therefore have to reject the allegations, especially those relating to the 2014 closure report, that the government has withdrawn funds from health care or education. That's not exactly true. If I mentioned education, let me say that the total educational expenditure was HUF 1722 billion, more than the 2013 edition. It was also a matter of asset management, with a HUF 300 billion increase in public spending in the range of state assets. Public administration expenditure has also been mentioned. Although I have already mentioned earlier, if honourable Members look at page 278 of the proposal submitted and at the detailed public operating expenditure that starts there, they can see that, indeed, in this term of state operating expenditure, not only the salary of the State apparatus, not only their expenditure in rem or their investment expenditure, but also items that are not related to the functioning of the public administration. For example, the amount of EU contributions, which is grateful to God, has increased because our economic development has also increased and, according to EU rules, it is necessary to contribute to the Community budget in proportion to economic development. However, expenditure of this kind is the use of EU aid to increase the efficiency of the operation of the State or to include expenditure of a material nature. Therefore, I have to say that in 2014, if these items are excluded, the state has managed sparingly, I often hear that it is too sparing and too restrained for wages. We have now reached the point in 2016, that, in line with the development of the economy, a wage increase can also be made by government officials, which is included in the 2016 budget. But the point is, I can't see from the detailed 2014 figures where the government would have spent more on itself. The municipal system was also mentioned, and let me mention once again that, in addition to the significant debt consolidation in 2014, the municipal system closed in addition to the significant debt consolidation in 2014 and the removal of its effects. And I find that once again a very big achievement. When I said that the management of Hungarian public finances was characterised by a significant deficit in election years, this is also true of the municipal system. A transformation to the municipal system has also been achieved, according to which the previous period has been broken, and in 2014, without withdrawal of any central resources, the municipal system is closed in addition, contributing to the disciplined management of the state as a whole and to the reduction of public debt. I would like to join Mr Volner here, who drew attention to the particular service discipline and the regularity of the services in question. Yes, in 2014, there were also changes that helped the availability of data, and regular reports were made. Indeed, these regular data are important for us to have an accurate picture of the management of public finances and, as far as transparency is concerned, the government also regularly publishes the data of the municipalities on the website of the Treasury. There was talk about the operation of the central bank. The central bank operates independently of the government, but let me tell you that I am glad that the central bank is closed in addition, there was no need to compensate for the loss of the central bank, which would have increased public expenditure. In this respect, the functioning of the central bank is linked to the implementation of the 2014 budget. The central bank, as a sovereign body, may use its resources for the purposes laid down by law. The various types of expenditure carried out by the central bank do not constitute State expenditure; therefore, it cannot be understood that Mr Volner's suggestion of comparing central bank resources with public expenditure items cannot be interpreted, since the two items are not methodologically comparable. Child poverty has also been mentioned. Congressman Manninger recalled exactly how the government was able to increase the cost of eating children, in line with the performance of the economy, gradually compared with 2010 and what the 2015 budget of 16 contains in this respect, in addition to the 2014 accounts. As far as free textbooks are concerned, criticisms can be made. I am sure that there are areas where the state apparatus could work better, but I am pleased that in 2014 too, we were able to demonstrate that the free textbook supply, which takes place in the upcoming system of public education institutions, was a plus that the government was trying to help families and children. I also find it difficult to interpret when, among the 2014 editions, let's say, Castle Garden Bazaar is a number of negatives. Let me instead express my joy at the fact that in the central part of the capital, a serious object in extremely bad condition, which has been vomiting for decades, has been able to be renewed. Indeed, this was part of the 2014 expenditure. We have talked a lot about public work and employment, but I think it is worth repeating and repeating the facts again and again. Mr Gúr was trying to prove that there was no or minimal increase in employment in the competitive sector. Mr Congressman, I would like to ask that the European Union's methodology is in place [[Nándor Gúr: KSH!]] Please see the data of the statistical office. [[Nándor Gúr: I know him.]] I'm glad you've looked at these, and based on this, I'm hoping that you'll reconsider the numbers you've mentioned. Once again, I ask the question, which remains a rhetorical question, whether you can show another country in Europe, which was in a similar situation in 2010, when we compare employment relations to that, and where, even in the competitive sphere, we do not talk about public employment at that time, or in the competitive sphere, this kind of employment expansion has been achieved. [[Nándor Gúr: Yes.]] I respectfully ask Congressman if there is such a country. [[Nándor Gúr: Yes, I will help you.]] It is not my custom, allow me to say this, to respond to political arguments in a basically professional debate, but when the Member asks for more fairness, he asks the Government to keep the promises, then I ask you to see exactly what the Government has promised. Take a look at exactly what the government promised in the 2014 budget and how they were implemented. And look at the promises made earlier - here you mention billboards - say, in 2006, when we talk about closing accounts. What did the then government promise to implement the 2006 budget? [[16.50]] How did the numbers turn out? What did you promise on those billboards where you talked about VAT cuts when all the data showed that, unfortunately, the processes were going in an extremely bad direction in the economic sense? I am not saying this, Mr President, this is shown by Eurostat's factual and past data. On this basis, I say that the tasks ahead of us must, of course, be seen. We need to see that there are many other problems in many areas that we need to solve. We talked a lot about the health situation, the diversification of the real economy, the strengthening of the SME sector, the changes in the tax system. I must note here that the online cash register system was extremely successful in 2014. It should be noted that, according to the PwC study, the actual taxes on production organisations have decreased significantly compared to 2010. Therefore, in this debate, which includes the tasks ahead of us, we must recognise the results in addition to the recognition of tasks and tasks. I believe that the 2014 discharge is a document that is both about the achievement of macroeconomic objectives, the fulfilment of promises, and that these favourable macroeconomic processes have been applied at the level of everyday life, at the level of employees and at the level of individual sectors. On this basis, I can warmly recommend to the Honourable Parliament that you support the implementation of the budget with your votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-07-88	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Peter Banai. Dear Parliament, Mr László Domokos, President of the State Audit Office, has indicated that he does not wish to make use of the possibility of closing. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Now, Honourable Parliament, the general debate on the bill amending Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 will follow. Government submission T/6326. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Banai, Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Economy, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2015-10-07-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We all know that mass immigration, the drastic increase in the number of illegal border crossings, has put unprecedented pressure on the Hungarian administration and law enforcement institutions. On 4 September 2015, the Parliament adopted a law amending individual laws in relation to the management of mass immigration in order to address the crisis. In order to implement the provisions of the law effectively, we need to provide additional resources to the institutions concerned. This is necessary for the smooth performance of the tasks, the development of technical and IT conditions for rapid administration and, not least, the provision of prepared personnel. You recall that the government has already made funds available to address the migrant situation, to protect Hungary and the borders of the European Union, but additional resources are needed to carry out the ongoing tasks. Therefore, we propose an increase of HUF 60 billion in the so-called extraordinary government measures provided for in the 2015 Budget Act. Dear House, In addition to the above increase in appropriations, the draft will create, within the Ministry of Interior, a new appropriation of HUF 1 billion as an additional instrument for dealing with the migrant situation, which can be exceeded with the government's permission. This allows for an immediate response even when other sources are exhausted. I would like to point out that the amendment does not affect the deficit under the payment and the European Union methodology, as it changes the total revenue and expenditure of the central subsystem in 2015. In order to increase expenditure appropriations, the source is provided by an increase in tax revenues, general turnover tax and excise duty. This is due, on the one hand, to more favourable revenue data than expected for the continued growth of the economy and, on the other hand, to measures taken to improve the tax morale. Dear Parliament, The bill before you also includes the transfer of loans from the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund with a principal amount of HUF 47.2 billion. I would like to draw your attention to the possibility that budget and other resources intended for the activities of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund will indeed serve the operation and development of the renewed public media, which is the source of the debt accumulated before 2011 of the public media and the debt burden on the financing of the purchase of the building for the replacement of the rental facility under unfavorable conditions established in the previous period. The exemption of the Fund from debt service obligations contributes to ensuring the high-quality operation of transformed and expanded public media channels in order to fulfil its basic public service tasks. Debt relief is a transaction without cash flow and does not appear as expenditure in the domestic budget accounts, so the deficit is not affected. Furthermore, given that the debt of the Media Service Support and Asset Management Fund in the government sector is still part of the public debt under the EU methodology, this transfer does not increase the debt of the State as a whole. Dear House, In accordance with the laws in force, the Government sent a draft amendment to the Central Budget Act to the Fiscal Council. In its opinion, the Budget Council stated that it did not have any fundamental objections to the credibility and enforceability of amending budget revenue and expenditure appropriations which would justify a sign of disagreement. On this basis, in the light of the opinion of the Council, I ask you to support the proposed legislation and to adopt it later. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-10-07-90	Thank you, Secretary of State Banai. Dear Parliament, I declare that the President of the Fiscal Council has indicated that he does not wish to speak in today's debate. The speeches will now be held by the representatives, the first of which will be held by the keynote speaker in 15-15 minutes' time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, notary, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-10-07-91	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for the floor. T/6326. I would like to add to the keynote sentences I have heard before me that, when planning the year 2015, this bill is trying to resolve unforeseen processes. I would also add that it is clear that precisely because of the responsible management of the government, Minister at the meeting of the EU finance ministers raised the possibility of using other methods in the EU budget accounts for this situation of force majeure. At the same time, however, he submitted this bill to this House, in which he increased the total amount of revenue and expenditure against extraordinary government measures and special tax revenues by means of a redeployment. Thus, the total revenue and expenditure increase at the same time, and the deficit adopted by the General Law is entirely the same as when the Budget Act was adopted. The second part of the bill is indeed a proposal for a consolidation of MTVA of HUF 47.2 billion. [[17.00]] I think this will give MTVA a very long-awaited opportunity to consolidate its operation. In view of this, I consider this bill to be eligible on behalf of Fidesz, and I ask this House to discuss the bill and then adopt it later. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-10-07-92	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Szűcs, notary. I now give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-10-07-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard in the author's exposé, and as you have said in numerical terms, my fellow Member Lajos Szűcs, it stands by itself. Obviously, we think otherwise of the justification. We think that MTVA had some kind of legacy. Let me get ahead of the past eight years, as we said last year, when we talked about the budget of NMHH, when we also listened to MTVA's report that other funds are available, yet MTVA is constantly raising a loan of 20 billion, and we claim that the funds at NMHH could be used for this purpose. What exactly am I talking about? There is a HUF 23 billion debt here, but every year we find 3-4 in the budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, sometimes only 3.5 billion forints, sometimes 5.9 billion forints as a reserve. I also tried to interpelle on this once, which was rejected by Speaker László Kövér, saying that no one in the government owes me an answer to the fact that the public money the NMHH manages is how it is managed. Of course, at committee meetings, one wonders what is currently about to be spent a little over a third of their one-year budget, which they reserve and carry out and carry out tasks of all kinds. All we see is that these tasks are not fulfilled. We have received such an answer again this year, we have two more tasks listed by the representative of the NMHH, and obviously we can only claim next year whether any of these have been achieved. But still, I think, and I look at Mr Secretary of State here, that if we burden the budget with a task, such as a certain amount of money in the budget of the NMHH, we should not count it as a reserve. If we put a burden on it, whether it is a credit, whether it is a loan or a loan from MTVA, then it would not be the budget that would otherwise be charged, then it could be written in quite calmly and not included as a reserve. What we would like to draw attention to is that since 2011 MTVA and NMHH have spent more than 700 billion forints, received more funding and spent more money, exactly 706 billion forints, of which MTVA has spent 509 billion forints. We believe that if an institution of this size had such a budget in five years, it would have had to be able to overcome the kind of debt, the 47 billion forints that are now burdening the central budget. And the central budget will spend another HUF 47 billion on the operation of the Hungarian Television called Fidesz-propaganda machinery, where, we believe, it is very difficult to justify the 80 billion HUF a year, 120 billion forints a year already. The ratings don't support this huge support at all. Obviously, the only thing that can support this is the need for a political propaganda machine. That's what they do, and that's what it costs. This would not be a problem in itself, but here it is financed and paid with public money. What we see is that, compared to this, the turnover between employees is in the thousands, sometimes by text, sometimes by text, sometimes by SMS, new workers are sought at MTVA, minimum wage workers are preparing the press. Others, of course, earn much more than that. We believe that this amount could have been spent on a lot of other things. Out of this HUF 47 billion, a large proportion of hospital debt could have been settled, KLIK's public utility debts could have been lifted, or the BKV could have been made operational in the long term so that we would not meet every month with the new proposal, request, or constantly complain that the BKV should be stopped. We believe that these are perhaps factors that play a much more important role in the financing of a government propaganda machine in terms of social returns and the service of society. We believe that a company with such a budget would have had to overcome such a loan or such debt in the last five years, or that it might have been able to live with it in peace for another five years. Instead, this money should be spent on what I think Hungarian people are meeting. 'Cause unfortunately, the data shows that they don't really meet with M1 shows. Turning to the other proposal, which also includes an increase in appropriations for dealing with emergency situations, we should say that the government is now a bit Pharisee. After all, the Hungarian Socialist Party had such a proposal in July of this year. We asked for it then, and we also proposed that this amount be redistributed, but not only for extraordinary measures in general, but we asked for it to be transferred to strengthen the police and the Immigration and Nationality Office. This money could have been improved in instruments, stock, skills and all other things needed to succeed in the situation at our borders, in order to live with the Minister's words. The government did not acknowledge this at the time, however, so much that our amendment was discussed last week, in September, by the Committee on Budgets, our proposal submitted in July. I think that was at least a late trial. Of course, I can explain the reason for this delay if I think that the government wanted to demonstrate its own capacity and that the opposition's proposals had been swept aside throughout the summer, even if the very same thing is coming before us now. This could have been accepted without further ado in July, and I think that we could have supported this, even if you would have taken it into your own name in the same way, and you are the authors of this proposal. There's a big difference between the two. We wouldn't have thrown this amount into a big hat, but we would have given it specifically to those who needed to be sustained. We need to stand up to the police, we need to stand up to the Immigration and Nationality Office, we need to stand up to their coworkers. And so, unfortunately, after having managed to finance more than one of these extraordinary measures, which, I must tell you, none of us would have intended the money spent there, then perhaps we could have avoided, how should I say, the mistrust that might be surrounding this measure, that it would not be given to the people to whom we all, I think, would be looking forward to at this moment. I can imagine, of course, that the police need these extra resources, because we said that we do not have to build expensive and politically well-presentable defences with very, very much money, but we need to equip our police officers, install and increase their staff by the Immigration and Nationality Office, and create new offices near the border. [[17.10]] I am just saying this, because my colleague from Baranya County is also here, that until 1 October, immigrants, refugees and migrants were taken from Baranya County to Szentgotthárd, who likes them as they are called. They were taken from Baranya County to Szentgotthárd to register. This is also a two - to - three - hour journey between brothers, and obviously this had to be done several times a day. We think it would have been cheaper if the government had prepared for this in July and installed office units there, provided adequate staff and staff who could carry out this task. We believe, and that is why we will be submitting an amendment to this proposal, so that we do not continue to throw money, taxpayers' money into this big hat. Let us also avoid the appearance that, at the end of this, any stadium, small railway or any other stereotype, it will now be largely or entirely related to you and not for the interests of the Hungarians, but we will really buy from it and use it to help us deal with the situation at our borders properly. We will therefore not support this proposal. I ask you, if there are no obstacles to helping the police and the Immigration Office in their work, and I think that you want to do the same, then I think you should support our amendment without further delay. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-10-07-94	Thank you, Congressman Cook. I now give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2015-10-07-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As stated in the State Secretary's Expo, this proposal, the amendment of the 2015 budget, aims at two areas. One means the debt transfer to MTVA, worth slightly more than HUF 40 billion. The presentation is not about what my fellow cook spoke, by the way, very intelligently and for a long time, about what he thinks about the authority's budget and the resources there. The sole aim is to take over the state budget of a state institution's debt. We've done this in many cases. We saw that private people were in debt, that we had to deal with this issue, that the municipalities were drowning in their debts, that I had to deal with it, and that I could continue the line. We thought, for example, that the state was more successful than the municipalities in managing debt. I still think that the state will be more successful than MTVA in managing the debt accumulated at MTVA - and I don't want to research it, because that is not what this proposal is about, and what made it piled up there. The other area is a much more important issue. The extraordinary reserve framework, which was large, was exhausted, and only partly because of an unexpected thing, this migratory pressure, this immigration is also a burden on Hungary. As mentioned in the proposal, two government decisions already amounted to about HUF 30 billion in the extraordinary framework to address migration issues. Obviously, it is easy to see that, despite our will, this migratory pressure can last for a long time, even in the coming period, and therefore, whether we want it or not, we must invest resources in these areas if we take it seriously that we are acting like a state. Because if we act like a state, we protect our borders, and we are bound by the Schengen system, and it costs money. Yes, as Baranya's representative, we know what is happening along our borders. The fence's building. Many people, thousands of people, policemen and soldiers work there day and night to fulfill our obligations. These soldiers must be moved, provided with care, and treated as far as these conditions can be ensured. These soldiers were mostly placed in municipal institutions, the municipal institutions are rented by the state, these are costs, and I could continue the line. So I think it is justified to ensure that these costs are covered, and this cost is well placed at the emergency reserve. We're not saying that all the money that we're putting in there has to be legally spent on asylum. Asylum is an instrument or a reason to increase this reserve. I would be happy if we didn't have to spend it all on this, but as the situation stands today in Europe, I am afraid that we will need more money to deal with this migrant crisis. It is also justified that if money is needed relatively quickly, the Ministry of Interior should have a framework that can be replaced if this is justified and acute payments can be made. The KDNP Group will support this proposal for a amending budget, which was mainly driven by this unexpected migration pressure.
u2015-10-07-96	Thank you very much, Congressman Harghitai. I now give the floor to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, notary, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2015-10-07-97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Please allow me first to talk about something that is not included in this bill, but I think that we must have an extraordinary sense of absence. With this comment and this comment, I would also like to help with the legislative work of the government, I must be honest, because you may have missed this extraordinary deficiency, and I would like it to be replaced as soon as possible. This is that the government has recently tabled an amendment to this law and has created a new chapter in the 21st century. We call it the chapter. For those of you who are not so familiar with the titles of these chapters, I would like to say that this will be the budget of the propaganda industry. It's got zero forints on it for now. I think that's exactly what this line deserves, by the way. However, we have now resubmitted a amending budget law, and I would have expected that we might be burdened with the responsibility - and believe me, as Members of Parliament, we could all bear the thought of, if we faced it - the budget of the propaganda industry. I think this is an opportunity for you to make up for this deficiency. Speaking of amending the budget, and if we are already throwing tens of billions at it, I think it is possible to confront Members of Parliament with this item. I don't think there's any point in discussing how much of it is worth operating a propagandaistry. But to move on to concrete proposals, which are now lying before us, it is indeed very surprising that this HUF 47 billion is intended for MTVA. The most surprising thing is that the narrowness of the detailed explanation, which, I quote, identifies the reason why you believe that MTVA deserves this extra HUF 47 billion as a gift. I wonder whether, if you are making this gesture because of a loan transfer and this loan has existed before, how could you not have faced this issue when planning the budget, not when planning this amendment, but when preparing the previous budget bill when it was right to submit it. Then why didn't the question arise? Obviously, there were problems in the past then, there was this issue of credit. Why didn't that come up then? [[17.20]] It occurred to me that the Committee on Budgets has recently discussed the budget of the NMHH for 2016 as the submitting committee, and there is obviously a connection between the two things that we are now taking on this rather significant debt from the public media, but at the same time we are talking about next year's plans. I know that the NMHH is extremely independent, the NMHH is surprisingly independent, so much so that it has nothing to do with a fiscal law, and it has to be mentioned in a completely different law, it cannot be discussed practically on one day about these two budgetary laws, but it is connected, because taxpayers' money is available here and there. It is true, indeed, what my fellow chef said, that in 2016, the budget reserve that the NMHH will provide will be 7.5 billion, and we really did not get an explanation of what they have spent so far and what they intend to raise so much money for in the future. In the previous debate, the Secretary of State drew my attention to the large pile of documents containing the closure of the 2014 budget. So I'm assuming that if it weighs 12 kilos, then the budget law itself, as a whole, along with all its annexes, not to mention background studies, weighs at least that much. So if, in the case of 47 billion, it is enough to say that there is a need to take over this debt because of problems in the past, I think - as I said earlier - that perhaps we could risk a 13-pound, perhaps due to our discernment, just in case it fits into what exactly is the problem in the past. I think that there is no citizen in Hungary today who does not have problems from the past, which the government can obviously also remedy on this basis; there is no company, no municipality that does not have problems from the past, if any. So I think that this would require a more detailed explanation, as well as in the NMHH a certain budget reserve, which we do not know what they are using it for. In fact, many other lines have not been detailed in the 3-4-page budget that we say, at 69 billion of a public service contribution, one would expect in a few rows, however, how many outsourced jobs were, how many external mandates, how many contracts were not carried out by MTVA staff. One more thing. When we talk about buying a TV station, I somehow wonder about the fate of the property in Liberty Square, and the fact that not only on that issue, there are many other issues, but there is absolutely no accountability in that matter. And now we're gonna trigger a huge debt burden, so to speak, from a past problem, from buying a building, but we're gonna leave a similar case and a similar one to oblivion to oblivion, cover it up, ignore it. For one sentence, let me come back and revive the memory of all of us. This is a huge property in a strategic location, which was then owned by a Canadian young man, obviously through a company that had a core capital of some HUF 3 million, so it must have been a reliable partner. Anyway, he's owned it, and he's been rehired by the state for many years, and within a few years, this Canadian investor won far more than the entire property cost. By the way, he hasn't made any of the commitments he's made so far about what he's going to make of this property. It is currently available for various zombie movies as a backstory virtually, and such events are organized there continuously, making life in the area quite difficult. In any case, due to the striking lack of value, he might have deserved an examination, and the accountability - if two of our government commissioners had already dealt with it - might have included this issue. So we cannot, in any way, support this part of the bill, not to mention it once again: just as in the case of debt consolidation in the municipalities, the debt will not disappear by now being paid by MTVA, but by all people as public debt. So it might have been worth a little detailing in the Secretary of State Expo, that those who may be watching this broadcast via some kind of Internet broadcast might be able to make it clear to themselves that this debt will migrate into the pockets of all people in this way. As regards the other point of the bill, namely: raising the framework for extraordinary government measures by HUF 60 billion. Unfortunately, I have to say that the goal itself, that the civilisational disaster caused by the migrant issue should be managed in some way and that Hungary can provide meaningful answers to it, and resources must be provided for this purpose; this goal is fine, in all cases, it can be supported in every sense. However, the means to achieve this are a little conditional or, to say the least, raises a lot of questions. Once again, I can only refer back to this huge pile of documents: exactly in the debate on the previous bill, we could see what the government spent the same framework of the previous year on the issue of extraordinary government measures, and there are countless items in it that are controversial, controversial, and which we do not really see the validity of, nor do we see in any chapter volume who would be a little broken up as to what the spending of that money actually looks like. We read generals in many cases about billion-dollar items, and now we're giving the government 60 billion in this way again to practically do with it what it wants, a blank authorization. Because, by the way, you write in the general and detailed justification of a law that the government intends to use it for this, otherwise the government itself is not obliged to do anything, it is not obliged to do anything, because it is not included in the norm itself. In terms of a billion forints, there is only that kind of address, so that's what the strapped money is, so to say, but you spend the 60 billion on what you want, by the way. At the same time, there are many sub-areas, there are special tasks that could be named, to which this money can be referred. Unfortunately, this has been cancelled, as has the fact that this money is actually being provided, because the fact that we are increasing VAT revenues and excise duty revenues with one snap is not so automatic and not so clear. Of course, there is no doubt that there is still much to do with VAT fraud, so there is still significant action to be taken, but at the same time I wonder why there is so much, why there is so much, where do you think that this will actually be achieved. In this respect, not even a single line of reasons is written in the detailed explanation. So, believe me, Secretary of State, we are responsible political opposition politicians, and we can be entrusted with information on exactly how the government intends to pay this revenue in this way plus. So because of these reservations, I can honestly say that the Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary does not yet have a final decision on how we can support or not support these two completely opposite themes, because we want to support one of them, of course, but we are arguing only with its instrument, but we do not want to support the other one at all. So now, in that sense, I cannot say to you whether, ultimately, we can respect the government with our vote in favour. Thank you so much for letting me know. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-07-98	Thank you, Congresswoman Loránt Hegedűs, notary. I now give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-10-07-99	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This amending budget is short but not minor. The first half - I don't have to say it - is unacceptable to everyone, for whom responsible farming matters no matter what: the Hungarian budget takes over MTVA's debt to HUF 47 billion by providing the organization with an annual grant of HUF 70 billion. [[17 .30]] However, this amazing amount flows from hand to hand, overpriced and watched by few, to launch new channels. All of this, in the sense that it cannot be called a public service, is not served by the units of MTVA, but by the mere propaganda tools of the government. Neither channel M1 nor channel M4 meets the public service requirements. Another function of MTVA is to feed the moon yard through its sources. The system called the public service is a fidesz paying place, i.e. the Hungarian taxpayers' money to keep those who, by the way, cannot achieve this with the quality of their work. That is why it is facial torsion that we are now once again being paid by taxpayers for a huge debt caused by irresponsible management and public spending. The second half of the bill would be eligible. The asylum situation calls for the strengthening of the police and the Immigration and Nationality Office. Therefore, the government will increase the general reserve or create a cash register open from above in the budget of the Ministry of Interior. At the same time, the method of implementation can be criticised. They don't give funds directly to the police and not to the Immigration and Nationality Office, but they are the organisations that need them the most. The LMP has submitted amendments, we would increase the police by HUF 10 billion, and we would triple the resources of the HAC. The coverage of the measures is rather strange, and the justification for each item is, to say, smiling. They mention the continued growth of the economy as a factor giving rise to an increase, and this growth is slowing down right now, and it is expected that it will not be higher than 2.5 percent, with which budget planning is expected. They mention the improvement in tax-paying morals and online cash registers. However, the impact of these effects has already been shown earlier, and additional revenue is therefore not expected compared to the planned one. However, Sunday's lockdown has been introduced, which is counterproductive. All of this shows that expenditure will actually be covered by an increase in the budget deficit. Of course, this may already be the effect of the new Secretary of State for Taxation, his knowledge, as he said two days ago that he could do the same for online cash registers who want to steal the proceeds. Of course, in addition to bluffing, it also contradicts the justification of this bill. We suggest that you discuss whether the government considers online cash registers to be effective or unnecessary, as the Secretary of State Tállai believes. We are also struggling with the same dilemma that my colleague before me said that we certainly cannot support the first half, while we want to support the second half of the bill, and we will decide what comes out in the end. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-10-07-100	Thank you, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There's no independent congressman in the room, no one's applied for a two-minute speech. Then I give the floor to the Member of Mr Nándor Gúr, notary, MSZP.
u2015-10-07-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. September 2015. In September 2015, the funds earmarked for extraordinary government measures of HUF 100 billion were almost entirely exhausted. Obviously, in this sense, if there is something to be done, amendments must be made. So with regard to the budget, I understand what the proposal is about, and in this respect I would like to say at the very beginning to Mr Secretary of State that there is a part of it that we have no doubt that it must be supported, so I ask with great respect that, when we meet our amendments, you and your fellow Members should be kind enough to welcome us in this direction. We are talking about the redeployment of a HUF 60 billion resource and funds, practically compatible with the management of asylum issues, plus a fund of HUF 1 billion, which was labeled to the Ministry of Interior. And there is another section, another aspect of this bill, which is about a HUF 47 billion order of magnitude for issues concerning MTVA. With regard to the first half, which concerns the provision of resources for dealing with asylum issues, I would just like to comment on the fact that, on the one hand, we consider this measure to be too late. Late, as I think my fellow Member Szakács mentioned, the Hungarian Socialist Party 2015. CHAPTER VII You've already initiated this month. Although not in the way you are now doing, but in a direct form to the police and the Immigration and Nationality Office, they are directly involved in dealing with these issues. The other is that it is not only late, but it is therefore not well-directed, because it is now blurred, it will be washed away, the 1 billion is not, I say it within the framework of the Ministry of Interior, in terms of the 60 billion forints, and it is not going where we think it should go, or I do not see the guarantees to get where it needs to go. In this respect, however, we do not dispute the necessity of the bill. The other part, as far as MTVA is concerned, and in addition to MTVA, NMHH was again said with just one sentence, that if we look at the events of the past years, we can see that, in relation to 2011 and 2016 envisaged, MTVA was affected by more than HUF 500 billion, i.e., which is available as a source from the central budget - HUF 509 billion, by the way - and in the case of NMHH in these six years, HUF 197 billion, although there is significant own revenue. The point is that if we combine these two numbers, we see that we are talking about over 700 000 million forints. More than 700,000 forints, or 706 000 forints. It seems amazing, as you say, that 706 000 million forints, and if I add that, say, in 2011, there was a HUF 60 billion source in the case of MTVA, and in 2016 the appropriation is 77 billion forints, and as an example, the National Rescue Service will be able to manage from less than 33 billion forints next year, I think that there are quite large distortions in terms of keeping people's interests in mind, providing health care, or/and operating an institutional system adapted to government propaganda. I think it would be worth reconsidering this part, and in this regard, I will not start to detail it, but in this regard it would be worth considering this decision of the order of HUF 47 billion. Technically, I can't say otherwise, and I don't want to, I say that demagog propaganda doesn't feel sorry for people's money, Fidesz doesn't feel sorry for people's money, while, as I mentioned earlier, for example, it's not half of what I said, less than 33 billion forints to fund the National Rescue Service to protect people's health. As a hundred words, I will not go into the details, I would like to show that the Hungarian Socialist Party considered that part of the bill, which affects the order of HUF 60 billion in terms of dealing with asylum issues, does not dispute this, and even considers it important in the summer. For this very reason, we are asking for our amendments to be taken into account so that this can be voted within the broadest possible scope of Parliament. With all due respect, I have so many requests, and I hope that the government and my opposition side will accept this. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[17.40]]
u2015-10-07-102	Thank you very much, Congressman, notary. I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group.
u2015-10-07-103	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Much has been said about this amendment. The government has presented us with an amendment to the 2015 central budget. We all know that the budget takes the form of law, but until the relevant year expires, it can be amended and changed. Flexibility is necessary, as unexpected situations, drastic changes in external and internal circumstances may require a review of the original budgetary concepts and, where appropriate, a significant change. Such an unexpected situation can indeed be seen as the ever-awaited flood of refugees reaching our country this year, which flows across Europe from countries with more unfortunate fates than we have. The situation is critical, there is no doubt about it, resources are needed to manage the situation and partially resolve the situation. Whether we fully agree with the compliance of the government's measures or not, we have already supported the government in dealing with this refugee situation, a migrant situation, and we have already contributed to our votes in order to resolve this problem. Therefore, the country is forced to act, and the resources needed for action must be made available to us, to the governments responsible for the action, and this part of the proposal is therefore acceptable. And once again, whether we agree with the government's actions in full or not, that would be eligible. However, the situation is different - and we will be in a very strange situation here again, as my fellow Member has already said - with the other half of the proposal, which is about the government creating its own propaganda machine with the money of the Hungarian people, and the loud propaganda serves only and exclusively the self-interest of the governing parties, not the interests of the Hungarians, because we cannot even talk about credibility, high professional standards or even public service. We are preparing or preparing to give nearly HUF 50 billion to this public media, which we are not aware of, or are preparing for, an institution that can be termed a very well-known institution. By taking over the debt, the institution will be released from the debt service and transferred to the State, but we do not know the extent or the due date of this debt service; therefore, in the absence of any basic information, the national wishes us to make a serious financial decision. And it has been said in Lajos Szűcs' speech that unforeseen expenditures have been made, and that is why this law is necessary, and, once again, in the first part, this is indeed acceptable, but in this part, which concerns MTVA, cannot be accepted at all. And as my fellow Member Mrs Hegedűs Loránt mentioned, MTVA's debt is a debt that is supposed to come from the predecessors of the law. If that is true, the extent of the debt and the burden on the institution were already known in the course of the budgeting. If you've been known before, then why do you have to take this on now, why didn't it go into the original budget? These are important issues in our view, unfortunately, the presentation does not answer these questions, but we could now get an answer, and you could also answer why this issue has come up now, and why not at the time of the presentation of the budget. Then János Hargitai said that there is no need to detail this debt, because that is not what the proposal is about right now. This is what the government is trying to put 50 billion forints in front of us as biankos: here, it has to be paid, and no one should worry about what this is made of, and what the background is at all. Nor do we get an answer from the proposal as to who the debt planned to take over is at all against, what is the capital debt of this debt, what is the interest rate and what other costs are still associated with the take-over and the capital debt. In fact, we are so curious that we would also like to know - and thank you very much for giving us an answer - whether there has been any investigation of this debt, whether there may be any responsibility for the situation and whether there are any personal consequences. Because, unfortunately, we live in a world and I am sorry to bring up a little different subject, but it is a very good example of why we are curious about these questions, because it is now possible to read that the leader of Széchenyi Bank, Tibor Szakács - by the way, many billions of investors and the state were lost at Széchenyi Bank - was punished very hard during the investigation and reporting of the Hungarian National Bank, and he had to pay HUF 20 million. And what happens? Barely a few weeks, and he is already employed as a consultant at the Growth Credit Bank, the NHB of György Matolcsy's cousin's interest. In all likelihood, then there will be such consequences: they will pay 20 million forints, cause billions of dollars of damage, and then they will only be a few weeks later, and then they will return this 20 million to him, say, with two or three or four months' salary, and everything will be fine, and he can live his life. That is why we want to know whether there really are consequences to this HUF 50 billion, whether this 50 billion is made up of what, and whether this could have been entirely legitimately and legally and on the basis of a responsible management. This, as my fellow Member has said, is important because everyone forgets that this is about public money. This HUF 50 billion is indeed the money of all of us, the money of all Hungarian citizens, and this HUF 50 billion could be spent on much more important things than on a propaganda machine such as MTVA. It is also interesting, by the way, that this case also has a very interesting point that the bill before us, if I am aware of it, should be rejected, if not, was filed on 24 September and asked for this trial. By contrast, on 5 October, i.e. 12 days after the submission of the proposal, 1711/2015 was published. Government Resolution No.1, which invites the Minister of National Economy to prepare a proposal amending the budget law, which has actually been prepared and submitted before. So the question arises of what work is being done within the government, where the most basic work organisation routines work the same way. Ladies and gentlemen, This post-papering is more than unsuitable, it is simply pathetic in my opinion. The proposal tabled, as my fellow Member said, cannot be supported on the basis of its content or quality of its development. Therefore, this bill could not be supported; I am talking about the part that is linked to MTVA, because the other part could be supported. So you have put the opposition in a position once again, and you have put the Jobbik Movement for Hungary in such a position that if, in this bill, it is only to decide whether expenditure on the migration crisis is really necessary, we will support it fully, but we will no longer do so at MTVA. But what happens when it comes to the vote? What is happening is that if the Jobbik Movement for Hungary - so this is a blackmail potential after all - does not support this bill, let us say, then you will start to say, with one of the biggest help and powerful support of MTVA, the usual Fidesz propaganda that has always been said in the salad laws, which has often been so, that Jobbik Movement for Hungary does not support the government in resolving the migration crisis. However, this is not the case, it is that we do not want this country to continue operating in such a way as to cause billions of dollars in damage to all of us, to cause billions of people, say, to the state, to build up debts, and we do not even know about these debts, these debts are covered by a thick blur, and there is no personal consequence, there is no liability if someone accumulates a debt of HUF 50 billion. So that's what we want answers to. I would like to thank you very much if you could answer these questions not only in the closet, but now during the debate. I thank Mr Secretary of State for this, because he has been watching and really participated in the debate, and he does not follow the custom of government to speak only in the closing words. So we would like to have an answer to that question, and then we may be able to continue to debate this bill. Thank you so much for listening. [[17.50]]
u2015-10-07-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Szűcs, Fidesz.
u2015-10-07-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I would like there to be agreement on a number of issues in this House, so I can tell Mr Szakács that on a professional point, the Committee on Culture will listen to the accounts of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and, in financial terms, the Economic Committee. So they're public, and you can do it. And I can tell Mrs Loránt Hegedűs that on the website of MTVA, you can keep the information on these issues in a transparent manner. All the contracts are up, all the employee data is up. Finally, in order to give Jobbik and LMP a little help in participating in the vote by pressing the yes button, I can tell you that these are also public data, which you too, I hope you know, but I am just recalling these data. In March 2007 Zoltán Rudi signed a contract with the Millennium Media Service Center Ltd. at a price of HUF 260 for the rental of a production base of 60,000 square meters with a 40-year term, which would have caused the tenant a financial disadvantage of more than HUF 620 million, i.e. the Hungarian State. The figures are: EUR 946 825 per month per year, and the operating fee is EUR 304 979. In autumn 2010, MTVA entered into negotiations to recover the ownership of the headquarters and to terminate the non-advantaged contract in 2007. This would have meant some HUF 550 million, and it was about HUF 160 billion that Hungary and MTVA should have paid. Until 2013, MTVA was able to recover the ownership of the headquarters and recovered it for 110 million euros. This contract also included a debt of EUR 13 million and the acquisition of real estate. Thus, the total value of the transaction amounted to EUR 140 million, and with this agreement, MTVA saved some EUR 310 million from our tax forints. They're still part of that thing. Minister of State Péter Banai said that I would like to help you again that this transfer is just an accounting commitment at the moment, because the government will report in the report on actual use and debt take-over and its implementation, i.e. the law on the implementation of the next year's budget, or if it goes on to 2016, the 2016 discharge law will report. So what Congressman Szilágyi has suggested is whether this investigation will lead to personal responsibility for these issues, is still ahead of us. This has not happened at the moment, so I would ask the ladies and gentlemen of Congress to support this bill, and at the moment when the settlement of the debt consolidation takes place, it can be settled in the Finance Act. If, of course, there are consequences in which individuals can be represented, then both the government and the Government Audit Office will take these measures. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-10-07-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman György Szilágyi would like to speak for two minutes.
u2015-10-07-107	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We still disagree, of course, on a technical basis, but my fellow Member, that HUF 50 billion will still be missing in 2016. That's the 50 billion forints of money thrown out the window. And the biggest problem, perhaps the biggest debate between us, is thank you very much for telling me what happened from 2010. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs: since 2007.]] Because this contract was concluded in 2010, and I'm sorry, it was concluded in 2007, and they started looking into this case from 2010, and tell me what happened. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have been in government for the last five years since 2010. How many of these people have been held accountable? How many people have been prosecuted for harming the Hungarian state? How many? Not a single one. That's the big problem. So now they might be able to get to the point of having personal questions, but they should have gotten there a long time ago. This country would change if these people had been held accountable. But I see that we agree on that, so unfortunately, you can say that this is your responsibility. Okay, we really need to deal with these questions, but I still say that this HUF 50 billion will be missing somewhere, and it wouldn't be a problem if one of these people, who was involved and who is responsible for this situation, was behind all the bars. Then there wouldn't be a problem in this country. Thank you very much.
u2015-10-07-108	Thank you, Congressman. I will ask if anyone wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed and I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Péter Banai, who is preparing to speak.
u2015-10-07-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to point out, first of all, that, in perhaps the most important objective of the amendment proposed by the Government, I see that there is consensus between the parliamentary parties. This shows that the parliamentary parties agree with the efforts of the government to protect Hungary and Europe's borders. I think that the most important point, therefore, is that there is agreement in the aim, the future protection of borders, and the management of the migrant situation on Europeans. We are looking for the most important and best tools to achieve the goal. An important instrument is the availability of budgetary resources. Here the speakers said that they would agree with the aim, but would not increase the appropriations for extraordinary government measures, but the institutions concerned in the Ministry of Interior chapter, the budget of the relevant institutions of the Ministry of Defence and the budgets of other relevant organisations involved, involved in border protection or involved in dealing with the migrant issue. However, the problem is that it is not yet possible to say exactly what expenditure will be incurred as part of the migrant crisis. I agree that the vast majority of the expenditure will apply to the Ministry of Home Affairs, the Ministry of Defence, some of it will be in the EMMI chapter, but again, the exact amount is now not yet specified. The government has chosen the method of raising the budget for extraordinary government measures to address the problem. I must stress that, as MEP Lajos Szűcs said, the use of public funds is contained in the report in a detailed register and in a detailed account. The reserve forecast, called extraordinary government measures, can only be transferred by public decisions of the government, which can therefore be seen in the past as well as in the future, and, of course, in the document on the implementation of the 2015 budget, the government will report to Parliament in detail the exact amount of funds used for which purposes. I therefore see that the solution proposed by the government is perhaps the most effective tool to address the issue by proposing that the government should have a reserve available for a final need of HUF 1 billion in addition to the EUR 60 billion allocation, from which payments can also be made. [[18.00]] Last thought on that. A large amount of HUF 30 billion has already been transferred from the extraordinary government measures appropriations, so the current increase is also intended to replace the appropriations, so that items beyond the expenditure related to the migrant issue can be financed from this general reserve. Mrs Loránt Hegedűs asked whether the collateral was available or not. In short, I could also say that the Fiscal Council considers that the coverage, the increase in revenue is realistic, but I can also say that not only the Fiscal Council sees that the deficit can be managed in several areas, there will be higher revenues than planned, but also that international organisations and financial analysts have the same view of the budgetary situation. The government reports publicly every month on revenue developments. From these reports, we can see how the amount of the general sales tax has evolved. In public reports, we also compare these items with previous years. It is clear from the facts so far that we can calculate a higher revenue than the amount originally planned by the Government and approved by the Parliament than the general sales tax or excise duty. This is due to a significant proportion of this year's projected growth of around 3 per cent, compared to the lower number agreed in the draft budget. Thus, greater growth is certain to bring substantial additional revenues to public finances. Congresswoman also asked whether the government was expanding beyond its powers by deciding on the use of reserves, and whether another amendment to the 2015 Finance Act before the Honourable Parliament, which concerns a new chapter, would also give the government too much of a role. I have to say that everywhere in the parliamentary democracies I know, Parliament decides on the main directions of the budget, decides on the main directions of tax policy and leaves the government a room for manoeuvre. With regard to the Hungarian budget, taxes can only be decided by the Parliament, and only the Parliament can decide on the size of budget expenditure, and within the limits approved by the Parliament, the government has the opportunity to carry out transfers. Thus, following the creation of a new chapter referred to by the Member, the government will only have the power, within the approved framework approved by Parliament, to carry out a transfer between the Prime Minister's Office chapter and the new chapter in connection with the change in the provision of tasks. Therefore, I believe that the current practice complies with both the current Hungarian legislation and the European order. As regards taking over the debt of the media organisation, I would like to thank Congressman Szűcs for explaining his background and also pointing out that, yes, according to the EU methodology, this is a widespread debt transfer within the state. If you like, the same debt transfer as between the local authorities and the central government. But apart from this technical thing, other than this takeover, which does not affect the public debt and deficit position of the state as a whole, I must say that it is not a unilateral operation, it is not that the government proposes that such a debt from the media organisation be taken over without any change in service standards or any measures. We see that your services have been expanded by the media organization. The M1 channel has been transformed, the new channel has been launched, the sports channel. Only sports rights this year, as far as I know, amount to HUF 10 billion. Indeed, this sports channel can also account for events that are national teams' matches or programmes related to Rio Olympics. Thus, the public service is provided by the media authority, and I repeat, a service expansion has been carried out, which, as appropriate, has resulted in more expenditure. This additional expenditure is partly managed by the Authority through internal measures. It was a downsizing, real estate rationalization, and if the Parliament accepts it, then the media authority will receive interest repayments from the additional service, yes, even by taking over the debt. But the important thing I want to say is that there has been a service expansion, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, a rationalization in the organization. I would like to draw attention to the fact that more than 30 properties will be transferred to the state, precisely because it has implemented rationalisation measures. These properties may be managed by the State, used, sold and sold if they are not related to the provision of public tasks. Therefore, the additional revenue from the central budget also derives from this transaction. Finally, let me draw attention to the fact that this debt-taking - I think, perhaps similar to the municipal debt-taking - should not result in a new debt-indebtedness of the organisation, and should not have new debt consolidations for the media organisation. To prevent this from happening, it is ensured by the current legislative environment, including the Act on Hungary's economic stability, under which new loans could only be granted with government permission. With this in mind, in order to further effectively manage the migrant situation and to carry out the tasks of the extended media organisation, I would kindly ask the Parliament to support the bill later with their votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Simon Miklós applauds.]]
u2015-10-07-110	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Peter Banai. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of today's agenda. We now have the speeches after the agenda, one of which, the others, have withdrawn from our fellow Members. I give the floor to the rapporteur, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, on behalf of the secretary-general, with the title of the system of 25 years. You have the floor.
u2015-10-07-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The system of 25 years. What's going on? This year the Hungarian local government is 25 years old, at least with this title the government organized a series of celebrations. I think that the title itself of this series of celebrations can be debated in some way, because the idea of the Hungarian local government, the local government, is by far not only these 25 years. Thank God, our thousand-year-old statehood has much richer traditions in this regard, one of the pillars of our historic constitution, and its principle is the local government, which obviously extended not only to settlements, counties, but also to other organizations at the time. But a kind of municipal self-determination could have been built only after the 1990s. At the same time, we have to ask whether we actually have something to celebrate now, so this 25 years that we have behind us are really something in which we find a reason and merit to celebrate. Unfortunately, I have to say that, in particular, changes in past times, changes introduced after the new municipal law and introduced after the new district system, have led to rather harmful processes, not that the 1990 LXV. In law, therefore, the original municipal law would not have been anything that could be called into question. What we see is that the communication between the government and the settlements is quite one-way, there is virtually no meaningful consultation. The system of task financing has not worked, there are significant withdrawals from the municipalities. We know this is also an older problem, but this problem has not been solved, the problems are just piling up. There is also the question of debt consolidation, but I do not want to discuss it separately. The county level has been completely empty, there is no institution actually belonging to the counties, and they can decide on the fate of certain local development funds with a very limited margin. [[18.10]] As well as the room for manoeuvre of the municipalities, it has also been extremely limited by losing some of their institutions. Therefore, the threefold idea of self-determination, self-sufficiency and self-defense, with which we may be able to make our local governments viable terminal castles, is still a dream, and it does not seem to be realized. However, I think that there is something worth remembering, yet there is something worth celebrating in the last 25 years, and that there are exemplary people who are responsible for the directional work of their representatives and, where appropriate, mayor for all of us. Allow me now to remember a person who, in my view, has done his work so self - sacrificingly in recent years. I was shocked to hear the news last week that a very dear fellow Member, Mr. District Municipal Representative Zsolt Monostori died tragically. He was indeed a person who did exemplary work; I was able to learn more about his precise and extremely committed work and his sincere personality regarding the closure of a nationwide prestigious school. I think that in our local government system it is precisely such persons as Zsolt Monostori's person, which can mean for us that there is a future for Hungarian self-government, because the work they are doing is an example for us from which we can draw strength, and I think he was such an extraordinary, exemplary personality. Once again, I can tell you that we received the news in a state of shock. May he rest in peace. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-10-07-112	Thank you very much for the speech by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, rapporteur, after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 6:12 p.m.]]
