u2015-06-10-0	Dear Parliament, The 39th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, notaries Erzsébet Schmuck and Attila Gelencsér will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Every year since 1991, we celebrate the day of the Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Office on 10 June in memory of the publication of the first Hungarian Public Prosecutor's Law on this day in 1871. The year 1871, XXXIII. The Act states that the public interest of the State is represented by the Royal Public Prosecutor's Office in matters governed by the law around the judiciary. This legislation was a significant step forward in the judicial reform of the time, and helped to establish a modern system of civil state organisation in Hungary after the settlement. Since 1992, the highest professional recognition of the prosecutor's organisation, the Kozma Sándor Prize, has been presented on this day. Sándor Kozma was the creator of the Hungarian Royal Prosecutor's Office, Parliamentary Secretary in 1848 and Member of Parliament since 1861. He had inexhaustible merit in shaping the functioning of the prosecution's organization, respected him as an outstanding legal scientist of the era. [[Attila Mesterházy is talking loudly to Zoltán Grimlock while he is on the phone.]] I would like to ask my fellow Members to make a phone call... I'll wait, dear congressman, I don't want to disturb you. I beg your pardon. [[Attila Mesterházy: I am trying to reach my fellow Member and I am trying to help him with his work.]] The Fundamental Law of Hungary states that the Attorney General and the Public Prosecutor's Office are independent, and as a public prosecutor, the public prosecutor is the sole enforcer of the state's criminal claim. The Public Prosecutor's Office pursues crimes, acts against other illegal acts and omissions, and facilitates the prevention of illegal acts. The prosecution's organisation has received new legislative frameworks following the fundamental laws on justice. It has been part of the administrative and judicial reform that has taken place in recent years, during which the organisation has been modernised and the rules of operational procedures streamlined in order to ensure effective functioning. An important aspect was the fact that the 21st edition of the European Parliament and the Council adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. A public prosecutor's organisation of the 20th century meets the demands of age and the European Union and participates in international cooperation as a full member. It must also follow the changes, meet the expectations set by society, such as successfully fighting corruption and organised crime, protect fundamental rights and human dignity in particular while guaranteeing guarantees of the rule of law. As an independent constitutional institution, the Public Prosecutor's Office is a defender of the public interest and a enforcer of the State's criminal interests. It is a fundamental duty to participate in criminal justice, in which it must comply with the principles of impartiality, efficiency, objectivity, professionalism and constitutional commitment. The preservation of public trust in justice is the responsibility of all of us, ours, legislators and public bodies that ensure the enforcement of rights. Dear Parliament, Following this, the Hungarian Development Bank Company's 2001 XX. T/4824, submitted by the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office on the amendment of Act T/4824. Legislative proposal No.2 and the Decree No. XX of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank Company. on the amendment of the law, submitted by Lajos Szűcs, István Happy, Mihály Witzmann, Tamás László, János Kerényi, Fidesz, Loránt Hegedűs, Jobbik, and László Szakács, MSZP, Members T/5017. The joint general debate on the legislative proposal No 1 until closure. First, I give the floor to Mrs Lászlóné Németh, State Secretary of the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, who will bring together the exposé of the two legislative proposals. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2015-06-10-1	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, So there are two proposals before you, both of which are the 20th of 2001 on the Development Bank Company. amends the law. Allow me to begin with T/4824. I would like to talk to you about a proposal number 1. Some of the provisions of the amending regulation are a legislative update of the scope of the Development Bank's tasks and activities, some technical amendments and technical fine-tuning. However, the focus of the amendment is not on these technical fine-tunings, but on transforming the rules on the acquisition of the Development Bank. This amendment would repeal Annex 2 to the Hungarian Development Bank Company Act, instead listing the direct or indirect entities in which the bank can acquire ownership in the coming years. By repealing Annex 2, the rule that the development bank law must be amended by the highest level of legislation in all cases where the Development Bank becomes an owner in a particular company or terminates its ownership status. In the case of the Development Bank, we can also say that there is no longer a need for this Annex 2, since the 2011 CXCVI on national assets. Law 6 provides adequate guarantees that the acquisition of the Bank of Development can only be carried out in a transparent and controlled manner for the State of ownership, in accordance with the decision of the Ownership Practitioner. With regard to the repeal of this Annex 2, it should also be said that this will make the implementation of the tasks assigned to the Development Bank significantly more effective. Let me give you an example. On 24 September 2014, the Government decided to acquire the majority of the shares of the Hungarian Development Bank in the main gas related to the construction of the public utility service. The amendment of the law, which only meant that Főgáz Zrt. was included in Annex 2. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[8.10]] I believe that, given the expected additional tasks, acquisitions and various transactions in the area of national public utility services, it is very important to rationalise the processes and make the possibility of acquiring ownership more flexible. This is an important interest for everyone. Allow me also to say a few words on proposal 5017. I think that we are talking about a proposal in the public interest that the government supports. It facilitates full understanding of the relationship between the Hungarian Development Bank and Quaestor and thus strengthens public confidence. Therefore, the aim of this proposal is to ensure that the loan of HUF 17 billion to Quaestor for the establishment of the ETO Park in Győri is no longer the subject of bank secrets and that the related contracts and documents are available. A subcommittee was set up to explore government measures leading to abuse by investment firms affected by a brokerage scandal. This subcommittee stated by letter that it wished to learn about these contracts and related documents. In this connection, I can therefore tell you that we support this endeavour, this amendment, from the government side. If the proposal is adopted, the subcommittee may start its work and, as a result, it will be clear to everyone what has happened in recent years in connection with this transaction. I would also like to say, in summary, that the aim of the proposal for two legislative amendments is, therefore, to make the activities of the Hungarian Development Bank more efficient and to underline once again that the Government supports the work and activities of the Sub-Committee on Broker Scandals with this amendment. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-10-2	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Szűcs, notary, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-10-3	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Indeed, we are in a strange situation when we are talking about the joint general debate on two legislative proposals. The reason we chose the genre is that we do not say a separate expo, but the representative of the government tells us, because after that, we can talk relatively simply about the second legislative amendment part, which was the last one spoken of by the secretary of state. But let's talk about the beginning of the bill, which is the XX. It amends the Act, whose primary objective is to transform the regulatory structure for the acquisition of MFB in order to allow the acquisition of direct and indirect ownership of MFB in a more flexible form of decision-making than at present, but within the limits laid down in the National Property Act. According to the bill, the MFB can also carry out its investment activities related to financial instruments as a basic activity in the future. The exercise of ownership rights is governed not only by the MFB Act, but also by the Law on State Property, which may be based on a ministerial decree issued on the basis of which it is authorised. The amendment summarises in which companies the MFB can acquire property. These include financial institutions, investment firms, commodity service providers and clearing houses. In addition, the MFB may acquire ownership, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, in government-owned entities and in their successors, as defined in the Government Decree, after 1 January 1990. The bank may purchase assets from a financial service provider for loss mitigation purposes for a maximum of 6 years. It may also purchase shares in limited liability or limited liability companies for development capital financing. On the basis of the decision of the Minister exercising ownership rights over the bank, it may acquire or maintain ownership shares directly or indirectly in any holding organisation. The Hungarian Development Bank Private Limited Company is a credit institution owned exclusively by the Hungarian State, its legal status, tasks and scope of activity are listed in Section XX. It is determined by law and by the statutes, as well as by a strategy approved by the Government. Its core task is to provide development loans that are favourable to domestic businesses and to support the state's long-term economic development objectives and to involve money market resources. The bank's balance-sheet income amounted to HUF 5.4 billion in 2013, with a consolidated group profit of more than HUF 10 billion. Operating costs decreased by HUF 1.3 billion in one year. The MFB plays an active role in the development of the Hungarian economy. In 2013, the amount of new loans amounted to HUF 117 billion. The bank invested a total of HUF 28 billion. In recent years, he has been involved in projects such as the implementation of the Hungarian-Slovak connecting gas pipeline, the public ownership of MMBF Zrt., i.e. the gas storage facility in Fehéreg, or the development of the PET centre of Kaposvár University. At the end of 2013, the bank's total loans amounted to HUF 666 billion, the loans allocated to the loan programmes amounted to HUF 256 billion, while the individual loans amounted to HUF 410 billion. The MFB's investments have contributed significantly to ensuring domestic gas supply, modernising Hungarian health care and strengthening the savings cooperative sector. On this basis, this amendment was supported by the Fidesz-KDNP Group. And now we are going to move on to the relatively short amendment proposal signed by the members and opposition members of the Budget Sub-Committee on Broker Affairs, thanking my fellow opposition Members for their assistance. Indeed, we have sent a letter to the Office for Government Control and the Prime Minister's Office to help us explore the events that have taken place during the agreements concluded between the MFB and Quaestor with regard to ETO Park. We have been told that it may be necessary to amend this law in order to explore these contracts and the background itself. This short three-stage amendment was tabled in order to ensure the publicity of these contracts, and if this legislative amendment, together with the technical amendment outlined above, is accepted by Parliament, then the Broker Review Sub-Committee can do this part. So I would like to thank László Szakács and Mrs Loránt Hegedűs for signing this amendment in favour of the MPs. We hope that, in the course of the House's operation, after the adoption of the law, the committee will be able to find answers to these questions, as this is an important part of the inquiry. There are obviously parts of the committee of inquiry on which we hope to make legislative proposals on the House's table after the end of the investigation, so that anyone can avoid doing such acts in Hungary, so I ask everyone to help us work and support this amendment. Thank you for your attention, Mr President. [[8.20]]
u2015-06-10-4	Thank you, Congressman Lajos Szűcs, notary. I now give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2015-06-10-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would say in the same order as the Secretary of State and my colleague, Lajos Szűcs, before me, discussed the two proposals before us, which we are actually discussing at the same time. I think that the common point of these is the MFB, but that doesn't make it a problem if this one eye has a set of commons, and so the Parliament is discussing these two laws together, although the two are quite different from the objectives it seeks to achieve as well as the reasons for it. The first proposal fully broadens the powers of the MFB to acquire and manage assets, and makes the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office of János Lázár responsible for this one eye. We believe that there is, of course, a measure where public ownership is justified, there is a measure where it is justified to gain the influence of the state, but we continue to claim that the Hungarian State and the companies and development companies owned by the Hungarian State are, sir, sorry! The primary task of banks is not to build a portfolio of companies and to participate in Hungary either as a utility provider or as a real estate operator or as a real estate operator, as there are market participants who are doing this on a market basis today. We believe that they are obviously able to be put at a competitive disadvantage, because the state-owned companies, banks and institutions - since they are all involved, institutions - are obviously the state, the government's dominant position, can be present on the market with the ability of the state to form legislation, and the government is able to change market relations by regulation. We therefore believe that this kind of dominant position will certainly not benefit the Hungarian economy in this respect. It's obviously a benefit to someone, and we can see that it's for someone's benefit. We believe that, whether in terms of the MFB or in terms of the Prime Minister's Office, this huge portfolio of companies is being built for a certain sphere of interest, sir! It is in the interests of the government, but in no case of the Hungarian people, and I do not think that any Hungarian person would benefit from this which is tangible, tangible, and which would make it necessary to take such a large-scale, market intervention step. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear fellow Members, This is a blank cheque, basically, because, as long as this authority is to coordinate the government operation, it is with the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, so as long as this power remains with the Prime Minister's Office, the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office can provide by his own decree that any economic company that belongs to the interests of the MFB, any institution that belongs to the interests of the MFB, order that Hungarian market players and service providers - we are talking about a clearly expanded portfolio here, so that now includes real estate distribution, real estate management, public utilities - he buys these companies, if he likes, he buys these companies. And here again I would refer back to the government's dominant position, because the government can at any time create an economic climate, a legal climate, and a legal environment, when these legal transactions will take place. I think we have reason to worry about this amendment, because if we hadn't heard it every day without any precedent, if we hadn't heard it every day - and these are sometimes rumors, sometimes of course supported facts - that the government intervenes strongly enough in the conditions which, normally, in another country where there is a functioning democracy, market relations are settled between us, then I think there is a reason for us to fear that, by the way, the government will live with this kind of dominant position that I am constantly referring to here. We also see that the MFB can also give glass beads to these companies, since it can now not only lend loans for three or even six years; this obviously gives everyone more room for manoeuvre in this matter. However, I would like to draw attention to two other things, apart from the fact that we are really stressing this again, because it is very, very important: this is a blank cheque. I will talk about it longer than the next law, in the trial of the property law, but I will just mention it here: Europe is moving in the other direction. In Europe, the Juncker Fund, Article 13, simply states - and there was a discussion here with Commissioner Jyrki Katainen - that only private sector investments will be financed, and we also know that at least 80 percent of the Juncker Fund will be devoted to infrastructure development. You haven't given me an answer yet, and I will deal with this in more detail at the hearing of the next law. One more question I would like to ask the Secretary of State, I think, is important. We see what is going on with the acquisition of wealth, and we are not happy about it, because we believe that the state has a role where market players are not, the state should be provided where market players do not provide: in health, education and the social sphere. We believe that your government is seriously lagging behind here, and your government is building Hungary kft. and a portfolio of companies, which, by the way, will now be entrusted to one single minister. I suppose this also means some kind of power struggle, but it's your problem, it's not a matter of parliament. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State what is the situation with these assets. Then they'll be sold? How do you decide that? We know how it gets in this circle, but we don't know how it gets out or out of this circle at all. Will there be reprivatisation in Hungary? If Europe and the more developed part of the Northern Hemisphere are moving in this direction, that it is private companies that carry out public services and provide public utility services, real estate sales, whatever the inhabitants are doing, then why has Hungary turned in a different direction? We're wondering if sales could fall into the hands of one person. Of course, the property law will come up, but the question arises here too, and we see that János Lázár will be able to entrust any majority or 100% state-owned company or institution with the representation of the companies. Will that change? So can János Lázár trust these companies in the same way in the case of minority ownership, or only with significant influence or full influence? Obviously, we are also looking at the construction of a new nomenclature here, because these companies can include people who are particularly loyal to the government, with full devotion to the government, who, unfortunately, will carry out the orders that they will receive from the Prime Minister's Office without criticism or comment. I believe that and the Hungarian Socialist Party's parliamentary faction also believes that this does not help Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, Hungarian companies, nor does it help the Hungarian banks, nor does it help the large companies that you are attacking a lot of times, and sometimes they are extremely proud of them, because they are the only ones who bring the lion's share of GDP growth in Hungary. To sum up, we believe that there is a substantial reduction in transparency when companies become MFB-owned. We already told the Secretary of State once when we discussed the ENPZ, at first it seemed like a hallway joke, but then unfortunately now we see that it is serious, the MFB will soon sell pickles. We think this is wrong, whether it is a profile cleanup between MNV and the MFB, or a power struggle, or personal differences, should be resolved in-house and should not be brought out here to the public of the country. [[8.30]] At the same time, while the transparency is decreasing, János Lázár gains one-man control over this area, which, on the one hand, is unprecedented and, on the other hand, I think that a concentration of power that is dangerous not only for economic life - and I am speaking very politely now, Madam Secretary, not just for economic life. This blank may be decided by delegation or regulation by the Minister. We believe that it is completely excluded from the closer supervision of Parliament the management of state assets. Therefore, the Hungarian Socialist Party will not support this initiative. Turning to the second proposal, of which I am the author, I would first of all like to state that I also signed the proposal because I also believe that it is in our interest, in our common interest, that if we can investigate each case, we can investigate these matters without exception, and that there we can present to the general public the cases that have come to the point where the Quaestor victims had to beg for their own money, for their own investment. That's why I signed this proposal. True, I also submitted another proposal, which would have picked up a much wider set of proposals, as it also included the amendment tabled to us by my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Szűcs, where we are asking the MFB about one single issue: this is the case of ETO Park. I think we can talk about this calmly and clearly. At the committee meeting, too, many times, and I think I have said it quite clearly: this is an eye case. We make HUF 17 billion out of a series of frauds in the area of HUF 220 billion, at least from the amount of missing money - and then I don't rate it - and here, obviously, the Bajnai government's responsibility will be strained by the committee. Still, I'm saying this must be part of it, this is the only case. I would have quietly added that if the ETO had not received money from the Hungarian state for football in 2008-2009 in Fidesz-led Győr, I would have wondered which party in Hungary would have shouted the loudest against this, that Győr football needed this 17 billion forints; and the same balliberal government would have done so to make a decision here, not based on professional considerations, but please make a nice political decision. I can imagine there was a situation like this, and the government was ahead of it. But still, let's see what happened in this case. However, in the first instance, I think that, and I have stressed this many times at the committee meeting, that this is a unique case, so let's look for the mystery man. Let's find out what happened to 17 billion forints, by the way: 220 billion forints, and what steps could have led to 220 billion forints disappearing from people's pockets altogether. Where is this? Where is this money? We made a lot more proposals than that. The committee is running a little hectic, and I think that this might be a good start, but I'm suggesting that we continue. We have put a lot of suggestions on this committee's table to listen to: let us listen to the President of the SAO, let us listen to Minister Péter Szijjártó, how public money could have come to the Quaestor. Let's hear from Minister Fazekas how public money could have gotten in and out of Quaestor. How is it that a budget with a continuous lack of resources does have funds that stock exchange companies - with unclear ownership - could otherwise give away, and how could the case have happened that they had to transfer 4 billion forints from this company on the phone? Here again, I would like to refer to the fact that I have spoken a lot about the state's dominant position today. I do not know if any Hungarian citizen or even any of my fellow Members have tried to transfer up to 20,000 forints over the phone. I don't think he's gonna make it, or he's gonna make it at very few banks, but four billion forints, I don't think it's gonna be possible to wire it like that. I have initiated a change in the law on public disclosure of data of general interest. I have initiated that everywhere where there is public money, where there is EU funding, it should be available as data of public interest. The government that thinks of itself as a commitment to transparency, I don't think we should sue each time someone asks for public interest information. The government, proud of its own transparency, would not always wait for the last day when it had to go to trial, and would not wait for the last day when the judgment was brought to justice, and then 30 more days after what the judgment required it to publish the data of public interest. We don't have a problem with that. We understand that these rules of the game, only if you make it look like this, then, in all likelihood, this is not how it should work in this regard, and I have made an attempt to do so. This is what I have tried to do to support this proposal by the members of the committee, and that is the right thing to do. Then let's have all public interest, publicly available data, where there's public money. I have received the answer from this Committee, which has a lack of ambition, from the chairman of the committee, that we are not in a position to do so because we are expanding beyond the authority of the committee. If you look at this bill well, we signed it as an individual representative. This committee has nothing to do with the powers of this committee, which was said today in the exposé of my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Szűcs, a former subcommittee, a committee of inquiry, a sub-committee of inquiry. By the way, honestly, if we want to solve it, we can solve it, but we submitted it here as an individual representative. Otherwise, we could have tabled a constitutional amendment without further ado, and there is nothing in the world that limits us. I thought that this small set, which relates to a specific case, when Győr led by Fidesz asked for 17 billion forints for the ETO football team, let's explore everything else. You won't give us this leeway, and I think that, unfortunately, those press announcements are true, and it's true that all the speculation in the press is that they just want to use it for communication purposes. The person who has not signed this can be told that he does not want to see the truth, and you want to enlarge only a certain section of the truth so that they will not talk about Csaba Tarsoly afterwards; stop talking about how many companies in Quaestor have ownership backgrounds that are unclear at the moment; let's not talk about the Moscow Chamber of Commerce; let's not talk about the 4 billion forints of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs or the 410 million forints of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is simply stuck in this case. It's not their money. It's taxpayers' money. I think that there should be much more responsibility in this matter. Therefore, if you do not give us more room for manoeuvre, I think that you are putting us in a very difficult position, because the other proposal will not be discussed by the Parliament, as always, with any other opposition amendment. The government doesn't support it. That's the reason for one eye, and then it won't be in front of the House. I therefore believe that you are giving us very, very little opportunity in this regard, but we will, of course, take advantage of that little, and I think that we will obviously need to look for support for this support. That's what we think. We believe that a much deeper and much wider amount of data should be sought if this committee really wants to do its job. If this committee was set up to prevent other committees from being set up, if this committee was created to cover up certain things, if this committee was created to find out only certain things, then if that is the goal, it must be admitted. We will not allow it, obviously we will not allow it, and we will work very hard to make it so, but if that was the wish, then, of course, I have signed this amendment, because I agree that it should be made public. [[8.40]] What I don't understand is that you have something to hide, why you didn't sign my proposal, and why you don't support my proposal, where we could have learned a lot more data, you could have had a much clearer picture, whether this committee or the broad Hungarian public, along which I believe that you could have thrown clean water into the glass, and that public confidence I mentioned a lot could have been built in any way, that anyone who had nothing to hide could stand up nicely, calmly, and that he could answer the questions that we were asking at a press conference or at a committee meeting. No, what we're doing today is taking out a case, this is the case of ETO Park - I would stress again: we had to give money to a fidesz-led football team in Győr; which party would have been the one to yell the loudest if they hadn't received this money? - and with another bill, we give János Lázár the exclusive right to acquire, buy, operate and close companies in Hungary. And as far as my question is concerned, would you like to sell it, Madam Secretary? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-10-6	Thank you, Congressman Cook. I give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2015-06-10-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The government would expand the scope of non-bank secrets data in its legislative amendment proposal on the MFB, allegedly with a view to allowing public opinion to know the background to the abuse of the Quaestor group. If we didn't know the governing parties, we might as well believe it. Of course, that is not the case here. The government and the amendment of the law are actually designed to extract a 17 billion MFB loan out of HUF 220 billion lost in broker scandals from the pre-2010 period. We still don't know what kind of curiosity it is to justify the resolution of bank secrets in this tiny section of the Quaestor case, but not in Buda-Cash, Hungaria or any other similar future case. After the possible adoption of the amendment of the law, the MFB's individual contracts will not be known as much as if it were a private bank. In his years of existence, he seems to have acted as a private bank of government with public funds. The current amendment of the law is so narrow that we can't even know if there was MFB money in other fallen financial groups. In the Quaestor case, the MFB was just a tiny gear in a larger machine. However, the failure of the National Bank and the financial supervision does not, for some reason, concern Fidesz. It is only possible to expose institutionally irresponsibleness by setting up a comprehensive committee of inquiry. A study that has been investigating the regular criminal mergers between the financial world and the political elite since 1997. For this, the LMP collected the signatures, but Fidesz swept them off the table. We have every right to assume that György Matolcsy's National Bank assisted Csaba Tarsoly's operations. The permits for operation were issued over the years, and within an hour they found the 150 billion-dollar deficit undetected for years when the Quaestor cried out self-destructive. But let's get back to the MFB in the proposal. In 2010, just a few months after it came into power, the government had already amended the MFB law to the taste of its own mouth. At the time, LMP protested sharply because the government transferred most of the state-owned companies to the MFB, thus under the protection of banking secrets, thus increasing the number of public funds invisible to citizens. We already said in Parliament's debate that the government's legislative proposal leaves the point behind bank secrets. On the basis of the amendment, we still do not know exactly how and what conditions the MFB is providing credit. At that time, the LMP had already called on the Government to establish a regulation that would ensure adequate transparency in such economic matters, because secrecy is only in the private interest of certain groups. At the time, we thought we were still saying that the MFB shouldn't work, that the bank secrets shouldn't work. The MFB is not a private undertaking, it is not even a commercial bank, so specific rules are needed to ensure full freedom of information and control. People have the right to know how the MFB, which has billions of farmers, manages, sells their loans to and from public companies. When the domestic media rumbles about who the Prime Minister's favorite oligarch or dentist is and what a greasy business they have got, these questions cannot be bypassed. The MFB manages public funds and therefore is the creditor of a number of public companies. So we, citizens, taxpayers are the owners of the MFB, which is why we have the right to know how the Hungarian Development Bank is operated. There's no place for bank secrets here. The LMP claims that the MFB should not have any bank secrets at all. We believe that this proposal primarily serves the communication interests of Fidesz. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-06-10-8	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. For two minutes, Congressman Lajos Szűcs, Fidesz.
u2015-06-10-9	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, It is clear that in the debate on the bill, most contributions were made to the bill submitted by the members of the Subcommittee on the Committee on Budgets. As we said at the committee meeting, of course, everyone should know that the operation of this committee can only take place on the basis of the provisions of the Fundamental Law, the House Rule, and at the moment we can raise questions that do not conflict with the prohibition of criminal proceedings or any other legal act. Therefore, the number of people invited will be able to expand a little by adopting this bill. I understand, of course, the outbursts of my fellow opposition Members, but you must also understand that the committee can function only in the legal order and framework, and that is why, when we learned that the Office for Government Control cannot provide information concerning transactions between the MFB and Quaestor, we initiated the removal of this secret on the matter of the committee's working order, not by amending the secretist, but by amending the law. I ask all my fellow Members to support the basic proposal submitted by the Minister in charge of the Prime Minister's Office, as well as what the members of the committee have submitted, and, if that is the case, then, of course, here in front of the House, we will also be discussing what this committee's findings were and what legislative proposals we are making to prevent these acts from continuing. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-10-10	Thank you, Congressman, notary. I give the floor to Mr László Szakács MSZP representative for two minutes.
u2015-06-10-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Member, There were no outbursts. I think there's a very calm debate going on here. We differ in our opinion that the secret owner may or may not publish it; I thought that you were right, and I signed this proposal that was brought before us. However, I do not agree with many of his findings. If this committee invites someone to consult, invites those who opposition representatives would like to hear, whom opposition representatives would also like to consult, we will not violate any legislation! As a Member of Parliament, as a subcommittee in the Parliament, if we call anyone with competence for a consultation - otherwise we have no right to do anything else, we call for a consultation; we may even say that this, for example, will be briefly mentioned in the report that there was such a consultation - we could do this without further ado. I just don't know why you have to resist that. Unfortunately, they make it look like there's something to cover up, something to cover up what you're doing. [[8.50]] Don't be so ambitious, by the way, this committee. I suggest that we invite him, consult with the people, the leaders whom the opposition wanted to invite, and if there is any conclusion to be drawn from him afterwards, let us do so if it does not have to be drawn - but let the committee not shut itself away from him. That's why we made this gesture to sign this. I'm sure you're right, you know better than we are, we'll sign that you don't have to ask the mystery man. What I don't understand is why you didn't support my proposal anyway, and then life would have been a lot easier. Thank you very much for your patience.
u2015-06-10-12	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, No one has made any further comments or has made themselves known in the Chamber. The joint general debate is closed. I will ask the national secretary of state if she wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2015-06-10-13	Thank you so much for this opportunity. I would like to respond very briefly to what has been said, Mr President, to the question that you have asked in particular. In the event that the Development Bank intends to sell its owned companies or companies, it will do so in accordance with the laws in force at all times. The property law also applies to this, and I just want to note that within a few days, there will be a report on which financial institution is the most transparent in the country. According to our preliminary news and information, the Hungarian Development Bank will be very prominent. I hope that the doubts about not being known - and I would like to point out to a woman who is a Member here - in the Development Bank, these doubts can be resolved. That's part of what I wanted to remember. The other part relates to the fact that during the speeches, the total amount of Quaestor scandal, linked to the Commission's work, and the responsibilities and engagement of each person, has been repeated several times. All I would just like to say is that, with this bank credit from the banking secrets, which is, of course, a very small part of the large amount we are talking about, we will make it known, and there will be a lot of lessons that will be learned from the representatives working in the subcommittee. Of course, I do not have the opportunity to say more today why I claim that this loan agreement will answer many things, processes. So I would just like to continue to ask that both of our amendments be adopted. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-10-14	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. Dear Parliament, The 2007 CVI on state assets follows a series of steps. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The submission is T/5046. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mrs Lászlóné Németh, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
u2015-06-10-15	Thank you for the opportunity. In this amendment, I have to start again by saying that the 2007 CVI. We wish to amend the law. We are initiating a change of legislation that provides for more efficient operation. In the amendment of the State Property Act, we amend the powers of the Minister responsible for coordinating government work. In this context, the Prime Minister may also appoint a holder of ownership rights. If the government so decides, the shareholder may be authorised to set up a company or to acquire a holding. I would like to make it clear here that this power of decision, which we are talking about, only covers cases falling within the remit of the competent minister, the minister leading the Prime Minister's Office, given that we consider it very important that the functioning system of existing powers and division of labour between ministries should continue. For this reason, I ask you to support this proposal with your proposal and your vote, it can make a significant contribution to ensuring that we can perform the roles and tasks related to the exercise of ownership rights more effectively. We are talking about the removal of a kind of bureaucratic burden, because if the government decides today that the Development Bank can set up a company on behalf of the Hungarian State, then this can either happen through a legislative amendment, or the Ministry of National Development, and then the National Asset Manager can activate and perform this task. With this rationalisation, therefore, what is included in this amending proposal, it is the decisions on asset management and the time needed for implementation that we can significantly shorten, simplify processes, while no one's interest in this is affected. As has already been said in the past, the tasks of the Prime Minister's Office have been significantly expanded. Yes, this portfolio has also become a trust centre, and it will have to do a lot of things, a variety of tasks for the exercise of ownership rights. I am thinking primarily of government plans related to the national public utility service. As I said earlier, in order to develop this concept of public utility service and to implement this idea, we still have more acquisitions ahead of us, various transactions are being carried out, and this will take place under the supervision of this minimum. To do this, it is necessary to do this work effectively, and I ask you to accept it. Thank you.
u2015-06-10-16	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Attila Gelencsér, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-10-17	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The purpose of the bill before us is to modify the powers of the Minister responsible for coordinating government activities in the exercise of ownership rights over state-owned corporate shareholdings in order to perform more effectively. As a result of the amendment, the Minister responsible for coordinating government activities in matters falling within his responsibilities, as well as in matters relating to the entities under his direction and supervision, i.e. in a broad sense, in matters of direct and indirect responsibilities, could decide to ensure the exercise of ownership rights over State-owned corporate shareholdings in a ministerial decree itself. In addition, the Minister's decree could authorise the acquisition of company shares on behalf of the State or the establishment of the company concerned. The power of the Minister responsible for coordinating government activities would be limited to his responsibilities and to the public-owned shareholdings of the entities under his/her direction, under his/her supervision and on the basis of individual government decisions assigned to those entities. [[9.00]] In all other cases, the national development minister would continue to have the power to establish a regulation. This separation of tasks and responsibilities with regard to ministerial powers would result in a clear and transparent solution. The Prime Minister's Office and MFB Zrt. its increased tasks, in particular those relating to the organisation of the national utility service system, are expected to lead to a larger number of cases for which the amended ministerial powers of regulation can assist in the effective implementation of government economic policy. Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, significant steps have been taken towards achieving affordable energy prices. While electricity prices doubled between 2002 and 2010, prices have decreased by more than a quarter in the last two years: costs have decreased from HUF 50 to HUF 38. During left-wing governments, the price of residential gas has tripled, but in recent years the price of residential gas has decreased by almost one third, from HUF 151 to HUF 113 per cubic metre. The First National Public Service Company. was created to contribute in the long term to the maintenance of the conditions of the reduction of the rent and to keep the public utility charges of Hungarian consumers at a fair level, in order to protect national interests as a public utility provider. The service provider operates on a non-profit basis, with the aim of representing the interests of consumers and enabling security of supply. The essence of the public utility service model is that, on the basis of comprehensive Community considerations, it carries out market activities in line with the government's social policy visions. The system can represent and enforce market functioning and the non-profit principle at the same time by using the goods produced not to realise profits but to expand and develop the service, bearing in mind the interests of consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, The cost-effective operation and the savings resulting from the connection of public infrastructure allow for further reductions and improvements and expansion of services. The amended powers of the Minister responsible for coordinating government activities are aimed at ensuring more efficient, faster administration, allowing Hungarian households to calculate affordable and predictable energy prices in the future. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-10-18	Thank you, Mr Attila Gelencsér, notary. I now give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-06-10-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I have already spoken on several parts of the bill before us on the previous proposal. So our position is that such a level of power or economic concentration is not necessarily lucky that, if you are together, you are in one hand. We believe that the background of this is completely different from what my fellow Member Attila Gelencsér said, who said that on the basis of overall community considerations, this group will act in the interest of the community. [[Attila Gelencsér consults László Szászfalvi.]] - I'll tell her even if she turns her back on me. First, I would like to respond to what the Secretary of State said that one of the most transparent banks operating in the world is the MFB. That's what we're going to be informed about these days, and I'm going to tell you frankly, I'm glad that a bank owned by a state is one of the most transparent. And I'm not even gonna say that this is a minimum expectation, and I think it's a good thing. But, Madam Secretary, I believe it has been so far; I believe that the MFB has been so far. So far, there has been such a transparent bank that if you wanted to buy a company or create one, you had to bring it to the law, you had to make a law. Such a massive majority, which you have here in Parliament, I believe that you cannot be paralyzed just because the MFB wants to create or buy up a company. You have been able to legislate very, very quickly so far, and in cases where this community, the country, served the interests of the narrower or wider community of the people of the country, and has not offended others, the opposition has always been a partner. Let's move away from the House Rule and discuss matters as a matter of urgency. If necessary, let us hold committee meetings every two days, discuss everything, bring it in front of the House, and have it passed transparently by law. Even if what happened in this House is now being broadcast by a TV channel, a cable channel, but yet I say that it still creates some sort of appearance of transparency. I am not sure that after this proposal, when such economic and political power is concentrated in the hands of a minister with great economic power and a dominant government, then I am not entirely sure that the Hungarian Development Bank will be able to meet the same requirements of transparency. And I am not sure, unless this audit will be carried out by a Hungarian company, which you are entrusted with, but, let's say, on the basis of some internationally recognised standard, by a company that is not involved, I am not sure that we will be so proud of this performance again next year. What I wanted to say in any way, I just mentioned in my comment on the previous law, is that I am not sure that it has started in the European Union, as regards the strategy on the Juncker Fund and the huge developments generated by the EBRD, you have fully considered what you are doing now. Here was Jyrki Katainen, responsible for the success of this project, the Juncker project. Obviously, many doubt that with such an investment of EUR 15 billion, it is possible to achieve a multiplier effect of 15-18 times and generate private equity investments as large as they think. But we think we should give it a chance. The Commission has decided or can decide to translate EUR 315-320 billion into development, and I believe that we should be involved in this. However, the consultation that was held here, which may have been at the beginning of April... I'm not sure they were informed about it. At the consultation held here, I asked if we could hear so many times private capital, private capital involvement, support for developments by private service providers, we heard this so many times in the Commissioner's presentation that I must ask him if he knows that Hungary is going in the opposite direction. In Hungary, whether gas suppliers or we have just created the First National Utility Service Provider, which will operate in a more specific non-profit-making way. At least now it can be seen that the MFB will probably provide the money for improvements or maintenance in the next period. I asked what chances the Hungarian State has if it is involved in these projects with its own overweight, its own government weight, the weight of the legislation and its dominant position. Commissioner Katainen - being a straight man - gave me a very straight answer, he said that he would not have such a chance. They will be able to accept and support PPP projects at most, but not all of them, including where public participation is as low as possible, because the Commission is interested in the development of private capital, the promotion of private service providers and the creation of new market jobs, and this is what the EUR 315 billion will be spent on, is an enormous amount. [[9.10]] We know that 80 percent of this will be spent on infrastructure development, in Hungarian, on public works development and road development. I ask the Secretary of State what your position is in this. Will a state-owned company have access to these resources even if the EU Commissioner says no? Is there any model created by fictional, strategic thinking that we do not miss out on? 320 billion forints would be a lot of money, not 320 billion forints! It would be a lot of money, and if we missed this, it would be a liability that you would certainly have to account for. We have heard here that bureaucratic obstacles are being removed in this law. At such a concentration of power, Madam Secretary and honourable Members, it is not the removal of bureaucratic obstacles, but the dismantling of bureaucracy. I do not say that bureaucracy is always a good thing, but the processes of preparation, implementation and control cannot be released from the hands of bureaucracy, and public decision-making is precisely the obstacle to bureaucracy that it cannot do anything. You are now taking this public and putting it in a ministry study where Minister János Lázár works. He's gonna be working very hard there, I'm sure, and there's gonna be regulations about what the MFB has to buy. You call it a warrant, but I think it's more of an order. You have to buy this company, that company, if you can't buy one of them, then you can create a company that will be funded by the MFB in order to buy a market company. I will say it again because it is very important for the state to be provided where there is no market player to provide: health, education, social system. From these spheres, you withdraw the money, withdraw the funds, disrupt the structures, you don't deal with them. Madam Secretary, you are infinitely behind in these places. If we go out on the street, we're not gonna meet a man who's very, very happy with health right now. I'm not gonna run ahead, we're gonna have a lot to argue about on Friday and Monday. So far, for 500 billion forints, the Hungarian state has bought companies for almost 1000 billion forints that Hungarians do not need. Who has it been better for in Hungary, for any citizen or leader, that Antenna Hungária, Budapest Bank, Erste Bank, or even for the Main Gas, which the MNB or the Hungarian State has purchased? Who's better off now that they're state-owned? I am glad that my fellow Member, Mr Attila Gelencsér, believes that the cost of reducing the rent has led to a reduction in gas prices from HUF 151 to HUF 113, if I remember correctly. I'm afraid there's a world market in this and a huge debt that the utility companies are rolling in front of. It's a reduction in the rent, Madam Secretary. Local government-owned utility companies owe a thousand billion HUF to banks, credit institutions and their own local government. It's a reduction in the overhead. That's exactly the thousand billion you're talking about. Local government-owned utility companies are owed, and you're even taxing them. Look into it, Madam Secretary, there are a lot of utility companies, government-owned, that had to borrow money to pay the utility tax you imposed. I hope you understand the terrible whining of this situation. The problem is, it's not an opposition rumble. I am a municipal man, I have been a deputy mayor in a city for eight years, where we have developed a lot of local government companies, waterworks, power plants, and now, in order to be able to pay you taxes after the reduction of the rent, they have had to take out a loan to pay your overhead and pay the tax imposed on it. That's what we should be thinking about, and not about the portfolio we're building, and whose hands we're focusing on inside the government. I would like to highlight one sentence from what my fellow Member Attila Gelencsér said: it is clear that this will result in a transparent solution. I'm very confident that neither he nor the person who wrote this down to him doesn't mean it. The MFB can set up a company, bring it in front of the House, discuss it on a Wednesday morning, now it's 10:15, and you can start the company at 10:00, even if we can vote on it. Without further ado. If we withdraw from this, and by a ministerial decree any company can be set up, any company can be bought up, or rather bought up, or I believe that it can order you to buy up companies, in my opinion it is an economic and power concentration that will certainly harm public confidence, harm Hungarians, harm the budget, economic policy, and I am confident that it will harm the Hungarian government and the government. The Hungarian Socialist Party will therefore not support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-10-20	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll ask if anyone else wants to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, who I see wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-06-10-21	Thank you for the opportunity. It would take a very long time if I wanted to give a detailed answer to some of the points that have been mentioned here, but I would like to highlight a few things. At a point in the Member's speech, the PPP scheme was published. I would like to say and stress that PPP schemes, which have been considered good in many respects in recent years, are still costing incredible money. We have had to make a great deal of effort over the past four and almost five years to get rid of these constructions. As far as PPP constructions in infrastructure developments are concerned, we still did not have the opportunity to relieve ourselves of the annual burden of about 100 billion dollars that this represents. This may have been very transparent, but the payment obligation that is linked to this package of solutions has cost the budget for many years. That's one thing. The other one. As to how, where appropriate, we can benefit from the planned development package that we can expect from the Union, and what the Member has repeatedly referred to, I would like to say one thing. You have also said that we are talking primarily about infrastructure and network infrastructure. At the moment, it is the step line related to the operation of the First National Public Service Provider, not the acquisition of networks. I'd like to say that. That is why I said that it would take a little longer than the time available to talk about this in detail. What has been said: yes, all the steps we have taken so far and will then take are necessary in order to maintain the reduction in the costs that we have started, and to give the opportunity to all the companies who do not want to come with us on this path to abandon their activities. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[9.20]]
u2015-06-10-22	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill on debt settlement for natural persons will follow up until closure. Zsolt Semjén, Péter Harrach, János Latorcai, György Rubovszky, András Aradszki, Mátyás Firtl, László Földi, Rózsa Hoffmann, János Hargitai, Bence Rétvári, Miklós Seszták, István Simicskó, Miklós Soltész, László Szászfalvi, Imre Vejkey and Attila József Móring, a separate motion from the members of the Christian Democratic People's Party T/4890. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-06-10-23	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the second half of 2012, the KDNP parliamentary group initiated to the government the development of legislation on the protection of natural persons from bankruptcy, requiring government support in view of the professional weight and complexity of the case and the new legal institutional nature. Following this, several fellow Members of Parliament urged the introduction of private bankruptcy regulation in an interpellation, not only in respect of foreign exchange creditors, but also in relation to other groups of people trapped in a debt trap. In its responses to the interpellations, the government stressed that it already theoretically supports the introduction of a private bankruptcy, but in practice it should assess the impact of state measures and legislation to save bank debt, as well as the results of private regulation abroad. The relevant impact assessments of the MNB have led to the conclusion that, following the implementation of bank accounting and the forinting of mortgage loans, there will still be public groups for which the introduction of private bankruptcy regulation could be an effective means of avoiding debt traps. Ladies and Gentlemen, The private bankruptcy regulation submitted by KDNP follows the state measures implemented so far to assist bank debtors, creating a coherent system. The Accounting Act, as well as the laws on the forging of foreign currency and foreign currency-based mortgage debt debts, were adopted in 2014 and will be implemented this year. This will reduce the repayments of the lenders. At the same time, according to the bank data collected by the MNB, over 90 days of overdue credit debts exceed HUF 1000 billion, some 45% of which are house loans and 55% of which are free-use mortgages. For credit institutions, the amount of outstanding loans over one year exceeds HUF 660 billion and the total debt is HUF 900 billion. However, the value of the underlying properties is less than HUF 570 billion. The above objective figures point to a significant number of debtors who have overtaxed their assets offered as collateral, i.e. those that can be used for debt settlement. The problem is, therefore, that the underlying property is no longer worth the principal amount of the loan itself, so if the debtor's house were to be auctioned during the execution, the auction buyer would not buy it for as much as the original principal amount of the loan. In view of the above, the debtor would not be able to get rid of his debt after the auction, since the remaining debt would also have to be paid. The debtor is thus in a completely hopeless situation, and we have not yet talked about implementation anomalies affecting a significant number of debtors. Ladies and Gentlemen, The solution to the problems of indebted families, if they have at least a minimum of assets and a capacity to repay, will be able to effectively facilitate a well-known and proven debt settlement process called the so-called private bankruptcy procedure, i.e. to avoid debt traps for the indebted families. Private protection may be initiated by a debtor who has assets and recoverable income, but which is not sufficient to meet his obligation to repay his accumulated debt and is guided by the intention of cooperation. Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition, for debtors who will not be able to avail themselves of private protection, it should be possible, through the further strengthening of the National Asset Manager, to continue to use residential property as a tenant for at least five years. In this case, too, debtors would not have to face the risk of eviction if they paid the rent. Ladies and Gentlemen, Under private bankruptcy, debts are settled with the aim of restoring the debtor's ability to pay. The debt settlement is carried out under the supervision of the debtor under judicial civil non-court proceedings, in particular by means of a settlement or, in the absence of an agreement, by a court decision imposing the requirements laid down by law. Private bankruptcy proceedings may be initiated only by a debtor who, acting by his own decision, assumes the benefits and obligations arising from the procedure. In order to avoid further increasing the workload of the courts, and in order to speed up proceedings, the family property supervision service, which will be set up within the Judicial Office, will examine in advance certain legal conditions for entry into the proceedings and, on the other hand, will carry out pre-decision and state control tasks. During the private bankruptcy proceedings, family property supervisors appointed by the family property management service shall assist the court in carrying out its duties. Their task is to prepare, support the judicial decision-making process, supervise the debtor's cash and property management, initiate proceedings in the event of possible abuse of the debtor, perform certain tasks for creditors in relation to the recording and management of their claims, prepare a private arrangement, conduct a settlement procedure, sell the assets specified in the settlement in a verifiable manner to the public and distribute the proceeds of sales to creditors. Ladies and Gentlemen, The most urgent thing to do is to allow debtors affected by debts arising from credit contracts for whom the financial institution has terminated or terminated the credit agreement, but the sale of their residential property has not yet taken place. [[9.30]] This residential group is most exposed to the horror of eviction and the loss of its home. The private bankruptcy law provides for a gradual extension of the range of residential groups that may require bankruptcy protection to settle their debts. Private bankruptcy is not designed to save groups of residents who are significantly above the average and possessing valuable assets, nor is it intended to save those with extreme overdebtedness. The private bankruptcy procedure is open to persons trapped in a debt trap who are already so overdebted that their total debt exceeds the marketable and enforceable assets. However, those concerned should be aware that, in order to settle the debt, the sale of assets cannot be avoided and that they must show entitlement to all repayments, regular revenue-generating activities or revenue in order to be able to pay creditors at least during the period prescribed by law and to the extent laid down by law. This is the price for exempting the debtor from payment of the remaining debts at the end of the proceedings. Ladies and Gentlemen, During the private bankruptcy procedure, the debtor manages the minimum amount of money needed to maintain his or her life, housing, under the control of the administrator. This puts you in a more favourable position than if you were under an enforcement procedure. The private bankruptcy procedure provides even more opportunities for families with significant debts to keep their homes than if they did not participate in the debt settlement procedure. However, this is conditional on the sale of other more valuable assets and the commitment of the required level of regular repayment capacity, as well as the development of a regulatory framework that takes into account the aspects of mortgage lending. The protection of the debtor's bankruptcy means that enforcement or the coercion of a pledge cannot be initiated and such proceedings cannot be initiated. Ongoing enforcement and forced sales will be suspended subject to booking. Each creditor may enforce his claim in the debt settlement procedure and receive only satisfaction within the framework of the debt settlement procedure. The debtor shall receive a partial payment moratorium for the repayment of accrued debts. The debtor may initiate a pawn sequestration on his residential property, if this is authorised by the mortgage lender, giving the debtor a grace period to settle other debts. If the debtor has complied with the debt settlement agreement or the court order, the court shall relieve him of the debt over which he is owed, no one shall require him to pay the exemption. The duration of the bankruptcy and proceedings shall be up to five years, but the duration of the restructuring credit contracts may extend beyond that. Ladies and Gentlemen, Now, let's look at the creditors' groups. It has a prominent position in the first local mortgage lending financial institution, but only up to the value of the mortgage at the time of the lending. It has a privileged position among non-mortgage creditors, according to the categories of creditors defined by law, to be entitled to alimony, compensation, and, in view of their public services, to house managers, public utility companies and public creditors. Third category: non-privileged creditors. Non-privileged creditors may obtain their share of satisfaction at the rate laid down by law. Undated bank claims and claims are also included in this category. Finally, the fourth category is the subordinated creditors. The law regards individuals lending money to debtors as subordinated creditors, holders of other private-law transactions between individuals. At the same time, the debtor shall not use bankruptcy protection to bring about the settlement of the debt that cannot be verified by outsiders in a manner that harms the interests of the other creditors. In the private bankruptcy proceedings, the debtor will satisfy the privileged creditors to a higher extent, the non-privileged creditors to a lesser extent and the subordinated creditors to a lesser extent, and the court will relieve the debtor of the payment of the outstanding debts at the end of the proceedings. Ladies and Gentlemen, To sum up, the debtor is placed in a more favourable position during the private bankruptcy procedure than if he was in an enforcement procedure, since after five years his remaining debt will be wound up, contrary to the enforcement procedure, where he no longer has anything but still has a debt, which is still being demanded of him. Please support the bill. KDNP supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-10-24	Thank you. Congressman Imre Vejkey, representative of KDNP. I ask you if you wish to speak on behalf of the government, Mr Répássy Róbert State Secretary. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. You have a 30-minute window.
u2015-06-10-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Member of the Council of the European Union: Fellow Members! The state debt relief toolkit for banks' customers is complemented by a new legislative instrument, submitted on 20 May as an independent representative's motion, which will help to restore their solvency and settle their debt by ensuring bankruptcy protection for individuals and families in a debt trap. This legal institution, the so-called private bankruptcy procedure, is best understood by establishing an orderly legal framework for insolvent individuals under public supervision so as not to be exposed to recovery procedures involving immediate deprivation of property and income based on the competition of creditors and the logic of recovery of claims, but to a second chance of getting out of the debt trap. In particular, the advantage of the bill is that the debtor can conclude an agreement with his creditors with mutual benefit rather than a tolerance for enforcement and can therefore settle his debts over a period of several years under easier conditions. Depending on the debtor's financial and income situation and taking into account the size of the accumulated debt during the period of bankruptcy protection, the terms of the debt repayment shall be determined and either entered into an agreement or a settlement or a court decision. Why is it important to create a legal framework for bankruptcy protection? First of all, because without a significant delay in payment and possibly indebted to more than one party, credit lenders would be subject to immediate enforcement and forced sale procedures where they would no longer have the legal possibility to renegotiate repayment terms. And even if one or another of their creditors were inclined to do so, they would at any time be exposed to the fact that recovery actions initiated by other creditors would take away the chance of re-establishing their life without debt. [[9.40]] In the absence of a private bankruptcy procedure, not only mortgage loans, but also other consumer loans, utility debts, can lead to real estate and all valuable assets within a short period of time, not only in respect of the debtor but also in respect of guarantors and pledges, in the absence of the debtor's or debtor's ability to pay. If multi-indebted families do not receive bankruptcy protection, for example, due to the recovery of utility debts, the mortgage financial institution will terminate the credit contract and even the residential property may be forced to sell, and there will be no legal barrier to eviction from residential property. In the absence of private bankruptcy rules, households overdebted to their assets would not only lose residential property and all valuable assets in the enforcement procedures, but would be exposed to recovery attempts for decades after that because of their outstanding debts, because enforcement procedures are only interrupted by temporary irrecoverability but will not be terminated. What is the advantage of private bankruptcy? A private bankruptcy procedure is a procedure for settling debts with the aim of achieving a relative balance between interest and interest between debtors and creditors, in such a way that not only the enforcement of claims against the debtor but also the rehabilitation of debtors can be set as a realistic objective. What can motivate creditors to participate actively in private bankruptcy proceedings? In particular, instead of an expensive, lengthy and often ineffective recovery procedure, they will obtain a predictable return within a shorter period of time. During the private bankruptcy procedure, the payment discipline of debtors is ensured by the rules of procedure and by public supervision. As a result, creditors do not have to fear fraudulent income and property deprivation because such acts are deterred by the fact that they are immediately excluded from bankruptcy protection and are excluded from the possibility of a new private failure initiative for a long time. A debtor complying with the rules of the private bankruptcy procedure in a disciplined manner, working honestly with the parties to the proceedings, regularly fulfilling the debt repayment obligation laid down in the settlement or court decision, shall be exempt from his remaining debts by a court decision upon completion of a period of several years, provided that he was able to settle his debt on his income and assets to the extent specified in the settlement or, in the absence of an agreement, in the court repayment decision. Only the debtor can initiate a private bankruptcy procedure, depending on his own decision, whether he accepts the benefits and constraints arising from the procedure. The bill allows for both court and court proceedings. Successful out-of-court debt settlement renders more costly and binding court proceedings unnecessary for the parties. The bill will first lead the debtor and his creditors to a procedure outside the judicial procedure in order to try to reach a more flexible, informal and cost-effective agreement. In the out-of-court phase, the debtor and his creditors agree on easier payment arrangements, the debtor's credit agreement may be restructured, agreed on the sale of assets necessary for the payment of debts and on the distribution of revenue to creditors. By concluding the agreement, the debtor may receive a significantly more favourable payment schedule, in line with his or her ability to repay. As a result of the agreement, the debtor may be exempted from payment of interest on late payment and other charges or even benefit from partial remission of debt. The role of the State in these cases is to ensure temporary bankruptcy protection. The designated government body, the family bankruptcy service, checks whether the debtor fulfils the conditions of the procedure. Subsequently, the consensus will be reached with the coordination and active involvement of the first local mortgage lender of the so-called principal lender, i.e. the debtor's housing property, on the detailed conditions under which the debtor settles its accumulated debts. The out-of-court debt settlement agreement will be registered by the State, but court approval is not required for the valid conclusion of the agreement. In the event of unsuccessful out-of-court settlements, or if there is no principal lender capable of coordinating out-of-court settlement negotiations, the court settlement procedure is initiated. In this case, the debt settlement is carried out by means of a judicial civil non-court procedure, in particular by means of a settlement or, in the absence of an agreement, by a court decision imposing the requirements laid down by law. In order not to create a significant administrative burden for the court which is not directly linked to deciding on substantive legal issues, and a government body employing insolvency experts to speed up proceedings, the family bankruptcy service should examine in advance the existence of legal conditions when initiating private bankruptcy proceedings. The central and local bodies of the family bankruptcy service are established as a new organisational unit within the existing government institution system. Following the imposition of a court debt settlement, the insolvency expert from the family bankruptcy service, i.e. the family administrator, shall supervise the debtor's management and debt repayment tasks, and shall assist the debtor in exercising his or her procedural obligations and rights. The role of the family administrator is similar to that of the administrator of the property involved in business bankruptcy proceedings, since he prepares decisions for the determining court and supervises the execution of judicial decisions. The court debt settlement procedure is also primarily aimed at reaching an agreement, even if the agreement between the debtor and his creditors had not been reached outside the court. The settlement shall respect the aspects relating to the security of mortgage lending, while at the same time allowing the debtor to make fair payments. A complete creditors' consensus is no longer necessary here, but the procedure gives each group of creditors a meaningful say in the content of the agreement. If the content of the agreement and the order of its establishment comply with the legal conditions, the court shall approve it. If the debtor executes the agreement, he will no longer have to assume that the implementation will start or restart. If this agreement is not reached at the court stage, the court shall decide on the method and the conditions for repayment of the debts. This court decision provides not only for the debtor's repayment obligation, but also for the sale of assets that may be deprived of basic maintenance of the debtor and his family and for the distribution of proceeds from the sale to creditors. After the end of the disciplined debt repayment period, the debtor shall be relieved by the court of payment of his remaining debts. It can be seen from the above that court debt settlement can bring a number of benefits to the debtor in addition to constraints. However, the price of this is that the debtor cooperates with the family property supervisor, creditors and guarantors who enter into the pledge as a liability to him and fully comply with the agreement or the court's decision to repay the debt. During both the terms of the settlement and the repayment of the debt, the legislator shall, in exceptional circumstances which are to be appreciated, in the light of the protection of the debtor, give exceptionally an opportunity to amend the settlement or to change the debt cancellation order to the benefit of the debtor. However, if the debtor obtains a large amount of extraordinary cash or asset relief during the course of the procedure, he shall use it for debt settlement. Dear Parliament, It is worth listing what kind of debt protection, family protection and home protection solutions are included in the bill before us. During the private bankruptcy procedure, the debtor manages his or her livelihood, with a minimum amount of money necessary for his or her housing under the control of the administrator, but independently. This puts you in a more favourable position than under the enforcement procedure. The private bankruptcy procedure provides even more opportunities for families with a significant debt ratio to retain decent and valuable residential properties than if they did not participate in the debt settlement procedure. [[9.50]] However, in many cases it is a condition for the sale of other more valuable assets and for the regular repayment of the required amount. The legislator facilitates the retention of the housing of the debtor and the close relative living with him within the framework of the options, but this is conditional on the continuation of the repayment obligation. I would mention here that the Government has recently taken a decision that the debtors in need may receive state repayment aid for the period specified during the debt settlement procedure. The detailed conditions for this will be contained in the Government Decree, which will be published in conjunction with the publication of the law. We believe that state repayment aid will provide long-term financial assistance to many families that will complement their ability to repay and thus not sell residential properties. The reference to the repayment aid will be accompanied by a proposal for amendment to the bill. It is worth listing the extent to which bankruptcy protection for the debtor may extend. Pursuant to bankruptcy protection, the debtor and those jointly and severally liable to him, if the latter participate in the proceedings in favour of the debtor, cannot be initiated, or the forced sale of a pledge can not be initiated. The debtor will be suspended when the debt settlement procedure is initiated and the enforcement process is suspended, and the applicant, like all creditors in the debt settlement procedure, will enforce his claim and receive a return within the framework of the debt settlement procedure. During the private bankruptcy procedure, the debtor receives a partial payment moratorium for the repayment of accrued debts, but the monthly repayment which is due on a continuous basis but which is lower than the current one must be paid. The debtor may be granted an extension by the mortgage lender to pay the capital instalments of the accumulated debt owed in relation to his residential property. During the delay, the debtor pays the other creditors the payments due to him and then pays the mortgage lender's debts up to the value guaranteed. If the debtor has complied with the debt settlement agreement or the court decision, the court shall relieve him of the debt over which he is entitled and the amount exempted may therefore not be claimed later. The duration of the debt settlement, the associated bankruptcy protection and the procedure is, as a rule, not more than five years, but may be extended in exceptional cases and the duration of the restructured credit contracts may extend beyond that. The government also recently decided that the terms of the.. National Asset Managers' programme should be amended in order to allow more people to enter it, for example, for reasons that they no longer have a level of regular income that would ensure the expected ability to repay the debt settlement. In their case, a minimum rate of rent may be set as a realistic goal, but they may also take advantage of the option to buy back. The deadline for this would be extended by a further amending proposal to be submitted. Dear Parliament, Ladies and Gentlemen, I have just tried to explain that, in fact, with the private bankruptcy procedure, the State is creating a legal framework to protect the indebted individual and the families through him, while also exercising the legitimate interests of public and private creditors, as well as the interests of the stability and security of mortgage lending of the financial institution system. The legislator must bear in mind that it is in no way appropriate to introduce rules which would adversely affect the payment discipline and skills of society in the short or longer term. In view of the above, it should be borne in mind in the context of the parliamentary discussion of the bill that the rules protecting the interests of the debtor and taking into account the legitimate interests of creditors should be balanced. Thus, the creation of a private bankruptcy law can achieve an optimal impact that takes into account national economic and financial stability, the maintenance of the financing of public utility services and the operation of a condominium, and the public interest in paying public debts. In view of the above, it is now necessary to establish a law that focuses first-stage on credit taxpayers with residential immovable property and gradually extends the possibility of entering the procedure to other retail groups in later years. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of the bill on debt settlement for natural persons tabled by the Members of the Christian Democratic People's Party. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-10-26	Thank you, Secretary of State Répássy Róbert. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr István Vitányi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-10-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of May, the anticipated bill on debt settlement for natural persons was presented. Today's Hungarian legal system does not yet know the legal institution of the private bankruptcy, i.e. it is still lacking in the public debt relief toolbox a procedure for debt settlement for private individuals that is both capable of restoring solvency and, on the other hand, ensuring protection for individuals and families already in a debt trap, against the rivalry of creditors that is detrimental to the debtor. The textual justification of the bill also shows that the essence of the private bankruptcy procedure can be defined by providing the debtor with a legal framework for the settlement of his debts to his creditors. In particular, the planned private bankruptcy procedure aimed at avoiding debt traps for debt lenders and for people who accumulate multiple payments delays. It is very important to note that the private bankruptcy regime that has been submitted follows state measures to assist the bank debtors that have been introduced so far, creating a coherent system. The Accounting Act and the laws on the forging of foreign currency and foreign currency-based mortgage debts were adopted in 2014 and are currently being implemented. It is also important to highlight from the bill before us who can initiate private protection. Families in difficulty of payment whose assets and repaymentable income are not sufficient to meet the obligation to repay their accumulated debt. Under private bankruptcy, debts are settled with the aim of restoring the debtor's ability to pay and getting out of the debt trap. Only the debtor can initiate a private bankruptcy procedure, depending on his own decision, whether he accepts the benefits and constraints arising from the procedure. It should be pointed out that the benefit of the procedure to the debtor is that he does not have to take account of enforcement, pawn sale and other claims during bankruptcy protection. In order to achieve this, the family bankruptcy service, which will be set up within the Judicial Office, will examine in advance certain legal conditions for entry into the proceedings and will also carry out pre-decision and state control tasks. I would briefly like to mention that the bill gives rise to both court and court proceedings. Successful out-of-court debt settlement renders more costly and binding court proceedings unnecessary for the parties. In doing so, the debtor and his creditors agree on payment facilitation solutions, the debtor's credit agreement is restructured, can receive a favourable payment schedule or may be exempted from payment of interest on late payment or even partially benefit from debt relief. The role of the State in these cases is to ensure temporary bankruptcy protection, and the designated government body checks whether the debtor fulfils the conditions for initiating the procedure. [[10.00]] In the event of unsuccessful out-of-court settlement, if there is no principal creditor capable of coordinating out-of-court settlement negotiations, the court debt settlement procedure will be initiated. The purpose of this is also primarily the negotiation, even if no agreement was reached between the debtor and his creditors outside the court. The settlement shall respect the aspects relating to the security of mortgage lending, while at the same time giving the debtor fair payment facilitations. It is important to point out that, both during the terms of the settlement and the repayment of the debt, the legislator provides an exceptional opportunity to amend the settlement or to change the debt repayment order to the benefit of the debtor in the event of unexpected circumstances that merit appreciation. I would add that domestic and family-friendly solutions can be found in other places in the law. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] In view of the above, as can be seen, the main purpose of the legislator was to ensure that the proposed legislation aims at ensuring the compatibility of the interests of debtors and creditors. By creating a balance, as far as possible optimal, between the motivations and interests of debtors and creditors, creditors' claims from the debtor's assets and income should be settled in the manner and to the extent achieved, while the ultimate purpose of the procedure is to rehabilitate the disciplined debtor who complies with the rules. Finally, I would like to add that those who cannot enter the private bankruptcy procedure due to a lack of wealth and/or income or other grounds for exclusion should be assisted by public, municipal housing and social policy with targeted financial support, at least temporarily providing housing opportunities. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I ask you to support the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-10-28	Welcome. Thank you too, Congressman. We'll get back to work. Congressman Lajos Korózs, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-06-10-29	Thank you very much. I salute the House. I have been looking forward to this proposal, all the more so, because the socialists have taken such an initiative a few times in recent years. State Secretary Répássy has said his legal aspects. I welcome my fellow Member in his person, because I think he is very much needed. As a result of my current position, I will obviously be making critical remarks, but I would like to stress that I am also doing this with a positive intention. Hundreds of thousands of families in our country are currently in debt, as the author mentioned. As far as I can see, the government's actions on this matter have not reached the finish line or are not aimed at those with a serious problem in the first place. An example of this is the National Asset Manager, which has accepted only 23,000 offers in two years to date - last time they published data on their website in September last year - but this includes the Ocsai residential park, which was also a government failure. As I see this story in Occasian, sometime in the near future, university will teach you how not to be able to put people with the same problems in a segregated environment, to solve their problems and housing problems. On the other hand, the end-payment provided assistance to 170,000 families, the majority of whom were not likely to be among the worst. Of course, it is okay for the government to help families; the problem is that it helps those who already have more. Think of how hypocritical it is that the government has reduced the cost of rent for its billion-dollar residential property in the same proportion as those who have built a small family house, bought an apartment or rented one with their own income or real family cooperation! Social insensitiveness is shown by the fact that the government has not dealt much with those in need in recent years: from March, housing aid has been abolished, debt management aid has been abolished, with these two measures reducing the income of half a million families; this meant a few thousand forints per family, which was not much but an important help for them. These benefits should not have been abolished but increased and increased accessibility. The twenty-some billion forints that cost the budget were small compared to what the government let go of at the electricity bill for luxury apartments in the previous years, since the so-called reduction also supported households that didn't need them, and even supported them more in proportion; but the government didn't reduce the cost of housing for those in need, the 900 thousand households with wood, coal and LPG, were even less affected by the measure. But not only is the payment of the rent a problem for many, but it is also that they do not become more involved in the debt spiral. As a civil society organisation dealing with housing, Habitat stated in its report: due to public utility or credit debt, around 500 thousand enforcement cases are launched every year in Hungary, this number increases by around 10 percent each year; the proportion of people who accumulate public utility debt is much higher than that of mortgage lenders; while nearly a quarter of the population has debt, mortgage debt affects almost 7 percent of the population. But let us move on to the proposal before us. The preamble to the proposal submitted begins with the following sentence:. The new legislative instrument for the resolution of debts of natural persons is a means of restoring the solvency of the debtor and the responsible cooperation of all its creditors, contributing to the establishment of a debt repayment plan requiring payment discipline for those in difficulty and those in overindebted, which takes into account the fair interests of creditors, while ensuring the maintenance and housing of the debtor and his family. As a result, the proposal could contain more detailed solutions, but this is not the case. Dear House, Contrary to the above, the MSZP submitted a fully-developed bill for the introduction of a private bankruptcy more than four years ago, which would provide substantial assistance to all debtors. For years, however, the governing parties refused to put on the agenda the private bankruptcy case, while the masses of families trapped in debt each month struggled for everyday livelihoods. Instead of adopting our bill, years later, a law was put forward which only represents a real solution for some of the debtors, most of the families that had been trapped in debt years ago do not provide any help, and it is not a sure way out for those debtors who are suffering through the entire process of debt settlement. For this reason, the MSZP will propose amendments that extend the applicability of the private bankruptcy to all debtors, and that, in addition to the interests of creditors, they will further enforce the aspects of families trapped in debt traps. But let us consider the differences between the proposal submitted by the MSZP several times before, rejected by the government, and the proposal that is now before us. The MSZP proposal would open up the possibility for all debtors to settle the debt, while this proposal contains a number of restrictions, which exclude a significant proportion of debtors from the procedure. The MSZP's bill not only allows the opening of proceedings when the debtor is already 90 days late, but also allows for it in the event of a risk of insolvency. Our second point is that, from the point of view of the debtors, the main virtue of the MSZP proposal is that it does not provide for a minimum return, so if the debtor survives the five years of the long-term repayment period, he will be exempted from further debts. The third is that the MSZP proposal does not detract income to the same extent as this proposal. Finally, the MSZP's proposal already gives the court and the administrator a significant role in the whole procedure, there is virtually no out-of-court proceedings. I would like to express our further problems. One of the main shortcomings of the proposal is that not only the eligible housing needs, but also assets that cannot be included in the debt settlement procedure will be defined by an implementing regulation. In particular, during the period during which the debt repayment plan was implemented, the proposal essentially squandered the debtor, since at that time the minimum amount of the old-age pension is required to be guaranteed for the cost of living in excess of housing. However, it is appropriate to note here that, in principle, it is not the norm of the proposal that condemns debtors to misery, but the scandalous fact that the minimum amount of the old-age pension is still HUF 28 500, for seven years now, while according to the Hungarian Central Statistical Office, the minimum subsistence is HUF 87 510 per single person household. In this cost ratio and in the minimum amount of living, the sum of the housing cost ratio is 25 thousand forints. It is shocking that even those who cooperate with the family property supervisor throughout the implementation of the debt repayment plan may not be exempt from the additional debts, since the minimum return required by the proposal must be achieved during this period. It is completely unviable for the debtor to be able to make a further major payment at the end of the repayment period for the purposes of the exemption decision. [[10.10]] It is a conceptual question as to why, according to the proposal, a close relative who is pawned is not entitled to the opening of the debt settlement procedure, for example, the mortgage of the principal lender on his housing property. Last but not least, the expansive wording of the text of the proposal is sometimes a riddle. The very low degree of codification, in my opinion, will make it significantly difficult to apply the law. If, for some reason, I am not sympathetic to you and to the comments of the MSZP, at least the opinion of Habitat Hungary, a civil society organisation dealing with housing, should be considered. We believe that all these comments can be approved, and I would like to highlight only a few of them. It narrows down the range of eligible debtors. The second point is that in the debt repayment procedure, it allows the retention of housing property only in a narrow manner. Their third point is that a reasonable demand for housing should not be defined in a regulation, but in a law. Their fourth opinion: the proposal sets out the minimum repayment too high. In addition to their specific comments on the proposal, their proposal has been proposed in a number of comprehensive proposals to address indebtedness: since the poorest ones are not helped by the proposal, they need to have a specific programme. Their next proposal: instead of the normative housing support that was abolished on 1 March, new housing support for the poor population would be needed, and finally, active housing policy instruments would be promoted by this civil society organisation. I would like to emphasise that the latter were the proposals of a civil society organisation. Dear House, To sum up, it can be said that the proposal before us cannot address a number of serious housing problems. In fact, the institution of the private failure, which it is essentially about, could be introduced better than that. We can even say that the government has acknowledged the failure of its housing policy so far with the introduction of a private bankruptcy, because despite its promise of a home security plan to save foreign exchange credentials and indebted families, it has not provided any meaningful help to many. While I am quoting from an expert's pen, hundreds of thousands of families in our country continue to be indebted to: Many do not have enough income, and the use of their wealth does not cover their debts. These families feel that they will never be able to get rid of their debts. For them, the private failure facility would give us a chance to recover. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. At the same time, one expert also wrote:. But we also need to know that private bankruptcy does not provide solutions for all families in debt spirals, does not help families with the lowest income. I would like to add that the latter sentences were written by an apartment sociologist. Moreover, it added that, in addition to the State's support for the operation of the private failing institution, the involvement of social services and non-profit organisations could lead to results. Currently, the costs of debt management and enforcement are very high. Involvement of non-profit organisations will not only enable social work to promote the interests of debtors, but will also reduce the costs of the system. We also need to say that thousands of families are waiting for further salvation and further help. There are hundreds of thousands of families living in serious housing conditions today, and we have to do something about that. Today, in Hungary, 145 thousand households do not have fixed drinking water, and 1.1 million households have sewage discharges, and housing quality problems also affect families raising children in a higher proportion. Today, more than 170,000 children live in apartments without toilets, and nearly 136 thousand children have no showers or bathtubs in their homes. A third of the children - some 620 thousand - live in an apartment where the roof is soaked or wet, moldy and musty. Dear House, Finally, I have to mention that the MSZP has recently prepared a complete bill to restore abolished aid, including in order to regulate housing-related benefits by law. We suggest that we make some adjustments to them in order not to put new families on the street. We have proposed a normative housing support that would be established by the districts, and we believe that it is necessary to introduce debt management services in all settlements, with which the families concerned would also benefit from debt reduction aid and advice. I would like to note that in the context of the Commission's hearing, the committee appointed did not support my proposal. We would therefore like to be more constructive when discussing the proposal on private bankruptcy, as we will be proposing amendments in order to improve the law so that as many families as possible can be helped. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-06-10-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The KDNP Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position within a total time frame of 15 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Szászfalvi. Here you go.
u2015-06-10-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, By 2010, Hungary became fatally and permanently indebted: between 2002-2010, the government's debt increased from 53 per cent to 81 per cent of GDP, the government's debt grew radically to 1400 billion forints, the government of that time drew so much money from the government's funding; the family's debt increased by 5 times between 2002-2010. For example, the government abolished social policy support, and the preferential public housing and housing lending was also abolished by the MSZP-SZDSZ government. The left-liberal government has done nothing, even with its inertia, inability to act and social insensitiveness. Ferenc Gyurcsány himself told me that they didn't do anything, but they did nothing but imitate the government. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Since 2010, the civilian government has taken a number of measures to slow down and then halt the growth in public debt. This has been decreasing for years, with a reduction of about 4 percent. The government took over the government's debt to approximately HUF 1400 billion for 2 thousand municipalities. In order to protect families, we have also taken a number of measures: exchange rate barrier, end-payment, creation of a National Asset Manager, accounting of banks, forinting. This series of measures was about HUF 1500-1600 billion in help and assistance for foreign exchange lenders, i.e. this is how much money we transferred from banks to families. Dear Parliament, But with these measures, we can't even help everyone. That is why it is necessary for the Parliament to discuss and accept the proposal submitted by KDNP representatives on the resolution of natural persons' debt, which I consider to be an event of historical importance, especially if we see this together with the government measures of the previous years. Ladies and gentlemen, So what is the point of this bill? Firstly, it strengthens social cohesion and strengthens the social network and strengthens solidarity in Hungary in a coherent manner in the form of a European model, but also in the governance measures of recent years. Secondly, it is an opportunity for those who are the most vulnerable in Hungary today, who have already lost hope. [[10.20]] It's the light at the end of the tunnel for those who still have their properties, but they're trapped in debt, and they've got a certain fortune, but they've got waves over their heads. Thirdly, the institution of private bankruptcy can help families in an impossible situation to recover within a reasonable period of time. So there is a perspective in a foreseeable time that can give the certain hope that the family will recover. Fourthly, under the conditions laid down by the bill, the life of those who use the private institution on the basis of a free decision will not only be settled in a material sense, but also in a mental sense. It's safe to say that they can start a new life. Fifthly, cooperation and partnership are extremely important to this, as is stated in the bill. This legal institution is not a compulsory option, but a free choice. This requires determination, determination, will. The joint objective can be achieved through cooperation between the debtor, creditors and the State. The goal agreed jointly in the agreement is therefore cooperation, partnership, but it is hoped that in as many cases the out-of-court settlement is necessary to achieve the objective. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this bill also draws our attention to the need to put much more emphasis on financial and life-management education, training and advice in the next period, as we have already started in the previous years. I would like to reflect in two sentences on my colleague, Mr Lajos Korózs, who referred to the Habitat Hungary association and civil society organisation. I happen to be quite familiar with the work of this civil society organisation: we worked together for years as mayors with this civil society organisation. What I can tell you is that this NGO has left a lot of people behind today. For many years, the Habitat program has worked great in Hungary, without bank financing. For example, in the small town of Csurgó he built 36 apartments in two and a half years in partnership and cooperation with the municipality. This organization has converted to bank financing, and virtually precisely the values of which it has been able to really help many families for a long, long period of years, in cooperation with the municipalities. With this change and change, he left a lot of families to himself, unfortunately, and brought me into a hopeless situation. Finally, I would like to refer to what was said by my colleague Lajos Korózs as a reflection, the fact that a few days ago he appeared on the Index - i.e. not at all on a close-to-government portal - the news that in one year the consumer's debt in Hungary decreased by five in one year; between March 2014 and March 2015 this debt decreased from HUF 120 billion in debt to HUF 94 billion in debt. So I think that something is happening on this front in Hungary, in a tangible way. I think that there has been a very serious reduction in the debt. Ladies and gentlemen, I, myself, suggest that my fellow Members take note of the support and acceptance of this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of KDNP.]]
u2015-06-10-32	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, who will continue to present the opinion of KDNP. Here you go.
u2015-06-10-33	Mr President, Dear House, My fellow Members gave a credible and thorough presentation of the draft law in part in the expozee and in part in the speech by the keynote speaker and in the presentation of the Government's opinion. I would just like to highlight and emphasise one or two important points. Perhaps I would first like to say a few words about the layers of debt that need to be helped. Some - and they are the majority - have made repayment difficult, but disciplined. Their problems were dealt with by the laws of the past. My fellow Member has listed them, and many have obviously used them to improve their situation. The second round includes those who are now talking about, who no longer pay back, but who have yet to recover their ability to repay. Finally, there is a third layer where this solvency can no longer be restored with help. They are helped by the aforementioned asset manager, whose options will be increased by 10,000 over the next two years - as we have heard, along with the family members, it has helped 100,000 people - and the empty apartments will be rented to those who also need them, so there is a set of apartments available that can continuously help those who are indebted. I would like to add something here, which is obviously a proposal rather than a criticism to the government. If you set up a housing facility capable of using some of the hundreds of thousands of vacant homes today, that could help a lot of people and families. But let's look at the bill. Firstly, volunteering must be emphasised. We are not forcing him into it, we are giving him the opportunity to use this procedure. Its objective is clearly to restore solvency. So it's about saving the overworked family from a much worse situation, from implementation. After all, we know and have heard that implementation is being suspended, and that new implementation cannot be launched in the five years. I feel, with a metaphor, that we threw a lifeline at the drowning, and I understand that, although I find it difficult to accept that the political tabloid is trying to attack this with all kinds of nonsense, and it is the opposition's job to always contradict political gain. How much you do or how much you take advantage of it is a different question. Let me give you an example of the nonsense in the press: someone wrote that the bankruptcy inspector who represents the state will tell you how much Paris is consumed by family members. You hear a lot of crap like that, but it's part of our low-level political culture and the serious state of the political tabloid. So this option is for those whose solvency can still be restored. The question is why this is being submitted now, the timing. It could have been sooner, but the order that has its own logic, the laws that have just been passed to save debtors, the vote that has just been passed, the implementation of them, and it is obvious that a next layer is now possible to help. What are the benefits of this debtor, which is important for us to stress? First of all, the exemption from enforcement I just referred to saves you from losing your home. A partial moratorium is connected to this system. Finally, perhaps the greatest advantage is the remission of part of the debt at the end of the process. I must also say that a long conciliation phase has preceded the emergence of this more than one hundred-page law. And not only its scale, but also its quality shows that it has serious professional work behind it, and we should therefore thank the representatives of the various wallets, the National Bank and the NGOs with whom we have conducted these discussions. [[10.30]] It was suggested in the opposition that the proportion of participants was limited. I think that, depending on the extent of the use, this circle can be extended later - if this is what needs to be done - so this option will be granted. I would perhaps even respond to the fact that the former opposition speaker found the amount given for the maintenance of the family to be insufficient. He forgot to say that in addition to the overhead costs, this amount that can be spent on virtually food could not only represent the amount of the minimum pension, but also, where appropriate, double it. Let's just say that what's in the bill, let's not narrow down the possibility of what's happening here. On the whole, I believe that we have indeed managed to throw a lifeline for families in difficulty. It is our hope that tens of thousands of families will come out of the debt trap that debt means to them. I think it is clearly a positive law. The purpose of helping us was to save our families. I therefore ask my fellow Members to vote on this bill after the usual criticism has been given. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-10-34	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2015-06-10-35	Mr President, Dear House, My first words should be in the voice of joy, just because, after many years, we finally have the concept or something resembling the original concept that was already in the front of the 2010 campaign, and already in 2010, KDNP campaigned very correctly with the importance of the private failure institution. As early as that period, Jobbik obviously stressed the need for this, but there is no way to start a bidding process about who has said this more often and who had a stronger idea. The point is, victims need help. The author fully sees that the basic problem that must be grasped is that in the case of 180,000 people, i.e. in the case of close credit, falling or falling, there must indeed be some means of ensuring that these families do not lose their homes and stay, if they can, in the productive sphere of society. Our problem, on the other hand, is that, in the course of a recurring justification, KDNP and Fidesz-KDNP, together, stress that the concept of private bankruptcy will only come before us now - and then we will explain the difference between our concept, but it has come here in this way and now - because the so-called foreign exchange-credit settlement had to be waited for, the various legislative processes and decisions related to it. However, it can be seen that the need for a private institution is far more than just a foreign exchange issue. The issue of mass debt deposits, which you stressed in the explanatory statement, also raised long before the currency settlement. Therefore, there were no real technical reasons for the tying since 2010. Nevertheless, I am very pleased that, after the twirling, after several years of twirling, we finally have a concept on which we can at least start a debate. Let's look at the 180,000 people we're talking about, who should be given a helping hand. Let us not argue that government experiments have taken place, that there have been attempts at action that have tried to help many of these 180,000 people; I stress that we should not discuss them. At the same time, the National Asset Manager started as a tool that could have really helped tens of thousands of people. There are 23,000 helpers in the last available data that do not come from this month. These are much earlier data sets. At the same time, it can be said that if you wish to expand the scope of those to be assisted by ten thousand, it would be good to have an element removed from your asset management system, since we need to see that while the bank concerned has a quasi-licensed approval, its blessing is necessary to help the injured, this system is very difficult and grunting. I do not want to decide, instead of the victims, whether it gives them a sense of help, that they may be able to hire back their own apartment; I am not convinced that many people like it. But if someone is open to such an opportunity, let us not take the opportunity away from him, so let us not close this voluntary thing. Therefore, I say that if this is to be extended and more people are to be helped out of the 180 thousand, then simplify the course and scope of this process by reducing the intervention of the bank that has committed the crime to zero in all of this. While Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, is quite right to see it, and perhaps as if he had made some criticism of it - a careful observation, let us leave it in the spirit of fairness - that a public-based survey is needed in terms of the utilisation of vacant real estate stock, I am very pleased that he said this. For several years Jobbik has been saying that there are about half a million vacant properties in Hungary. The distribution of these properties is not only diverse, but also questionable, where appropriate, so public, municipal and private property are often mixed, often opaque, but it is quite certain, and I think that all representatives of all parties agree that we need to assess this real estate circle and determine how we can help the injured, how we can help people living in a difficult line by using at least part of this huge amount of property that stands unused. At the same time, it can be said that in the case of 180,000 very difficult contractual and many more family members behind it, the asset manager was able to and can help a fraction in the future. Between the one-sixth and the one-twelfth of them, there is the possibility of assistance available by the asset manager. What we particularly resent is that during their so-called forintation, which was unfair, unprofessional and contradicted everything that we consider important, but I do not want to reopen the debate, the point is that a huge surplus of hundreds of billions was created around, say, the Hungarian National Bank. It could have been expected, and there would have been no professional counter-argument against the creation of a compensation fund for at least a part of the hundreds of billions from which the situation of those who have already been evicted could have been resolved, and the situation of those who have already fallen apart could have been facilitated, since this package, which is in front of us, does not provide any help, no way out, nor were they the targets of the package that lies before us. But you have to think about them, too. Professionalism would have had plenty to do with the creation of a compensation fund for hundreds of billions of dollars of this partly unjustified profit, so that no one would stay on the side of the road. But even if I take out all these helpful actions, I see that some 150,000 people need credible help, and the concept that you put down, which is very narrowed down, even if I start out from one of the executive directors of the Hungarian National Bank, the most optimistic thing was to help 25 thousand people, even if I say that after that there will be more than 100,000 families without any crutches, help, lifeboats, lifeboats, lifeboats, floats, tires. So it can be said that many families are still in an impossible situation, waiting for someone from the side of the road to lead them back to a safe haven. The very narrowing conditions that are included in the private bankruptcy of KDNP are, in our view, partly unjustified and could be addressed to a much wider circle. Obviously, we are trying to detail this in the debate, stressing that we do not want to get into your concept, improve it, improve it for the victims, but we need to see that there are fundamental conceptual and disagreements between us on how to help. When we talk about how much free-spendable money remains on the basis of the KDNP concept, we see that in some scenarios the faction leader is right and that a higher amount, which is already sufficient, can remain. Here, the emphasis is on the conditional way, not staying, but staying. However, there is also a scenario, calculated by the better experts, which is very many, so systemic, where the remaining income per capita is much less than a public wage. However, we are now saying that it does not allow decent existence and survival for any of the victims, so it can be considered too violent an intervention, which is why it is unjustified and must therefore be changed. [[10.40]] We also calculated who would prefer this design, and we concluded that if someone wanted to repay, survive, and even manage their family's life, they would have to earn approximately 300 thousand forints per month to survive it without any difficulties, in a guaranteed way. Let's think about how many of the people who are in debt are making 300,000 forints. We can see that we are talking about a very minimal layer. And when a Member mentions in relation to the expoze that it would be up to the municipal social policy to help those who cannot be helped by the private bankrupt, who cannot be helped by the asset manager, and who are not helped by a compensation fund we have imagined, I would recommend the real numbers of real life. Recently, in Budapest, a decent working young man living alone with his mother was deprived of the right to rent because he made 4 thousand forints more than the socially justified one; I would add that his earnings did not reach 100 thousand forints net, but this decision was made. The housing stock is so narrow, there is so little potential for a local government and it has such a narrow margin of movement that the social policy system there is expected to provide mass help or naivety, or simply to avoid or delay a meaningful solution. So we cannot accept this in this way. It was said in the reasoning that this was for someone who had already lost hope. For those who have lost hope or have been evicted, this private bankruptcy means nothing to them, since it cannot be included in their terms. If the condition that the existing assets are at least half of the debt, then we can see that not only the entire range of car-crediters are being wiped out from this system, but we also see that in ordinary cases, where there is, say, a foreign currency loan, a lot of people are unduly excluded from this system. I'll give you an example. If a person took on a so-called foreign exchange loan for a 13 million apartment in the capital city, it is very often that he has been paying off regularly for five or six years without default, and now, let's say, he owes HUF 22 million according to the bank's statement. This is an unfair forinting and post-account statement, but it can be said that at systemic level we can encounter such numbers. If, therefore, a debt of 22 million is shown for the apartment of 13 million, and there are many times that more debts are accumulated - as has been rightly said here - utility debts and utility debts - a situation may arise in seconds that the demonstrable value of the property is no longer half the debt shown on paper, so that the injured person may fall out of any of the conditions of the assistance system. But it can also be seen, as debts accumulate, it is absolutely unjustified to introduce such restrictions into the system, even if this may be resolved next year, or even if the situation of the victims is facilitated later. And what the Managing Director of the MNB said in a television interview is that one of the goals is for victims to learn a lesson from this, I hope that the author, Fidesz-KDNP, also rejects it, because it is not about the beating of irresponsible people, but about the calvary and disaster of people who have been in this situation largely without their own fault. So we have to say, the common goal, an articulated goal, could be to restore solvency. Jobbik has two pillars in its own private concept of bankruptcy, which would be absolutely in this direction, but this does not appear in this proposal at the level of the two pillars. One of the pillars is clearly that the seconded family helper - we called this in our own concept - would not primarily interfere with the spending of families, would not say that, let us say, the car can be used to carry the family member to health examinations or treatments, or to work, would not be judged in this case, but would be said that this free-of-charged family helper would help to convey to the creditor financial institution, which is almost always there for the victims and to reach a contract and agreement on financial waste that can be achieved with a substantial relief in the interests of the victims. I also wrote that after five years of maturity, there was no mention of living with an Anglo-Saxon type of walking right, so zeroing a debt, and not only for a debt of ten million, there was a discount of 2-3 million, which should not be debated, because it is important, but it does not mean a systemic solution. So one of the pillars that we miss very much from this proposal is clearly that a family helper helps to convey to the creditor and achieve fair conditions, with lower repayments, even with a longer term, but make the family's life viable or help with this. Secondly, we lack the indication of the target system for the restoration of solvency, and we miss the fact that, in almost all cases, we have a free re-training programme for those involved in this draft, which allows as many people as possible to return to the labour market, because look at the statistics, the inability or indebtedness of a family is associated with the loss of one or all members of the family's jobs, and it often results from this. Therefore, without supporting the return to the labour market, this system is capable of symptomatic treatment, and our goal in the long term can only be to fully help these people, I repeat, people who are in a difficult situation outside their own faults - as it is typically said - to return to the labour market, to the productive sphere of society, because these people are capable of doing so on the basis of their talent and knowledge. An incomplete surveillance system, a series of incomplete government policies, has put them in that position, and has allowed them to be more precisely put in a position to wait and count for a package on the government, which, at systemic level, would help all those with a difficult fate. It is possible to think of this in such a way that it does not consume large amounts of budgetary resources, as we are talking about consuming minimum budgetary resources compared to the items that we have designated as unnecessary in the budget. Once again, according to the most optimistic estimates of 180,000 people, 25 thousand people are trying to help in such a violent way, and they do not even get rid of their debt after five years, they are very far from the system-wide solution. That is why we hope that, by accepting Jobbik's improvements and ideas, we will be able to help the entire circle of victims, which is not only our opportunity but also our duty as dogs. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-10-36	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I now give the floor to Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, the notary of the Parliament, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2015-06-10-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The LMP considers the introduction of family bankruptcy protection very, very important, but we believe that this came too late and that there is too little in the bill. Only a very narrow circle of debt traps this year can take advantage of this opportunity. In the beginning, they would limit the range of users according to the type of debt. The possibility would only be open until October 2016. While it will be possible to manage any kind of debt later, it is not justified to wait until the autumn of the coming year, because most of the debts are not related to housing loans, but, for example, utility or rent debts, so this restriction should be lifted and it should be possible for private bankruptcy to be claimed for all forms of debt immediately after the introduction. Due to the required high monetary and income entry threshold, which requires that a minimum of half of the debt be secured by assets or income, and due to the high repayments, which are required to pay a minimum annual repayment equal to 7.8 per cent of the sales value of the mortgaged property in the case of mortgage lenders, this institution will only be able to assist a narrower layer of debtors in a better position of property and income, those who have permanent, predictable, average or higher income, which can afford to be repaid in addition to living. In addition, it will have a restrictive effect that the lower debt limit - HUF 2 million - is too high, which may result in a large number of debt-bearing debtors losing the possibility of debt settlement. There are 2 million people who collect utility or rent debts, and most of them do not reach this threshold. They will also fall out of it, just as they have fallen from debt management and housing support, which has been abolished from March this year. In addition to the lower entry limit, there is also a problem with the upper limit too high. Who were they thinking of when they put the debt minimum at 60 million forints? I'm sure it's not for people living in income poverty. [[10.50]] We find it a problem that the proposal does not deal with income secrecy, grey or black income. The law does not provide a solution to how to map all the incomes of a natural person. Thus, large debtors with unobserved income can also obtain a low repayment and get rid of a large amount of money. The qualifications of the family administrator do not include a certificate of debt management, nor is it determined whether the number of cases supervised by a bankruptcy administrator has a ceiling or a ceiling at all. According to the government's statements, a hundred trustees are planned to be trained in the first round, while the law does not explicitly mention debt management qualifications, even though family property managers will have a key role in the successful conduct of debt settlement procedures and will have a significant influence on the management of families. In addition to legal, economic and financial knowledge, knowledge of debt management and asset management will be needed. This should therefore be required as a condition in the law. It would also be possible to determine how many customers a superintendent can have, how many debt settlement procedures he can contribute. We cannot guarantee that those who can live with bankruptcy will remain in the debt settlement process enough to make a living equal to the minimum of living, and this is one of the most critical points. It is very important that, at the time of repayment, the amount of income that the debtor can retain is determined in such a way that it does not endanger the maintenance of the family or lead to the accumulation of additional debts. According to the law, the debtor opens a separate account for everyday livelihoods and other expenses. The amount raised from the account shall not exceed one-and-a-half times the amount of the old-age pension minimum per month, 42 750 forints and the same amount per person in the case of persons living in the common household, with only the minimum pension of three persons to be reached. This everyday expenses must be covered, with no overhead costs, no common costs, no insurance. This means that in the case of a family of three, the amount that can be spent is 128 250 HUF, while the value of the two adults is the minimum of one child, i.e. the minimum of life is 210,000 HUF. The difference is HUF 81 750, which is a sum well above the housing costs. Thus, a family of three does not even have enough money to meet the minimum needs. If we use a family of four as a basis, we see that the family can withdraw 156 750 forints a month, while the two adults, with a minimum of 253 700 forints, calculated for two children. Here the difference between the minimum living and the amount that can be used is almost 100,000 forints. This amount is also well above the level of housing expenditure. It is not understandable why the amount of the minimum pension is linked to the amount of income that can be retained. This amount will not increase for the eighth year next year, it will be at the same level in 2016 as it was in 2008. Today, he has become completely unfit to express any minimum living standards. If this is linked to the amount that the debtor can spend in debt settlement, it will mean that the same amount will still be in ten years' time, while the cost of living will be much higher than today. Therefore, the amount that may remain with the debtor after the charges should be set at a certain percentage of the minimum amount of living. There are no strong guarantees to protect the housing security of debtors, that debtors in private bankruptcy cannot be put on the street. In fact, it is not uncommon that the debtor loses his or her job, his or her regular income, or he or she suffers from accidents, or other unexpected events, and he or she is unable to complete the monthly payments. In this case, the proposal states that if it fails to agree with creditors to amend the debt settlement agreement, the court will decide to open the debt repayment procedure. I just want to make sure that the courts are prepared for this. But until the court is ordered, the debtor remains subject to debt settlement and must fulfil his obligations, i.e. even if he is clearly unable to do so without his own fault. The debt repayment procedure is essentially about the sale and distribution of the debtor's assets and imposes much less favourable conditions on the debtor. In this context, the retention of residential property is provided only if the debtor or his debtor is no longer active age and/or the common household has a minor, persistently and seriously ill, disabled or over 70 years of age, and the amount of claims on residential property is below the turnover value of the residential property at the time of the lending. If these conditions are not met, the sale of the property may be started after three months, even if the debtor has no right to rent or use other residential property, i.e. it is presumed that he has no place to go. This means that those debtors who lose their jobs may be on the street, and your private failure will not protect them from it. In this context, the right to housing should be stated. This would require the creation of a single public housing database from existing and to be developed social housing and from the national real estate fund, which could also help those who would only step on the ladder, but also those who are threatened by the horror of getting out of the street. The LMP also supports the concept of a social housing agency developed by professional organisations. Today, nearly half a million flats are empty in Hungary, the vast majority of which are private property. The LMP would create a State aid scheme that would make owners interested in the issue of vacant dwellings for those in need of social protection, with adequate legal and financing guarantees, both tenants and landlords would be safe. In addition, we would restore the debt management service and housing support at the statutory level and strengthen them. Our general reservation about your private pipeline is that this obviously cannot be the only means to help currency and other credible people, as well as those with a backlog, in the debt trap. The LMP has already developed a number of solutions, such as reducing repayments by banning unilateral contractual amendments, introducing the interest ceiling, forging costs or using the official MNB exchange rate. The introduction of the debt ceiling, the right to walk away, when the loan is closed by the auction of the pawnshop, the bank's further claim to the debtor or the limitation of the right to satisfy would still help. Don't let people go into debt slavery, don't let the debt survive after they've lost property ownership. Furthermore, debtors would be protected by tightening the conditions for factoring, execution and liquidation and shifting costs to the bank. Many times, debt increases significantly when the client is already insolvent. The credentials who lose their housing must operate a capable national real estate fund with adequate capital, which ensures that they can stay in their former apartments at a price that can be paid, thus providing the background for their families and their work. Earlier, Máté Szabó also said that the private failure is not a miracle weapon. In addition to private bankruptcy, there is a need for easier payments, a loan replacement, a bridging loan or a reschedule of loans. Between 2008 and 2013, the former Ombudsman has repeatedly proposed the establishment of a private failure institution. In his view, the assistance of troubled debtors is a complex solution based on cooperation between the state, financial service providers and society, although at different levels and in different ways. Only one element, however, can be the protection of individuals' bankruptcy. [[11.00]] Private bankruptcy cannot replace other solutions to settle the situation of troubled debtors, which are already regulated and applied, such as bridging loans, legal assistance, credit bailouts, reschedules or payment facilitations, but because of their different purpose, these other solutions do not trigger a decade-long lack of rules on private bankruptcy. The present draft is criticised not only by the LMP but also by civil society organisations. Several times today it has been said that Habitat for Humanity has also made proposals to improve the law. We have heard some of these, which, by the way, the LMP is happy to convey, because we think it is a credible, competent organization. To sum up, we think that this package of laws, the bill came too late, too late, and it doesn't solve much and not much for everyone. It is also regrettable that, after many years of preparation, they have been able to bring together such an unsold and in many places unthinkable drafts. Thank you for your attention. [[Sallai R. Benedek applauds.]]
u2015-06-10-38	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We're at the end of the lead speaker's round. Since no independent congressman is in the room, we have a two-minute lap. First, Congressman Dániel Z. Kárpát will be given the floor for two minutes. Here you go.
u2015-06-10-39	Mr President, Dear House, I very much hope that, at a later stage in the debate, both the representatives of the government and the representatives of the government will be encouraged to try not only to reflect on certain opposition comments in the closing remarks. [[Zoltán Pride: I don't think so.]] As a result, the possibility of a debate is lost, and the possibility of a substantive debate is lost, but it is now because very important things have been said. Even during the expo, we were talking about a reduction in the amount of debts, where we have to agree on that, and we have to acknowledge that by fiveths of the debt is reduced among the population. We are very happy about this, and we support all the ideas in this direction. However, there is another foot in the matter, and the fact that in the course of the budgetary debates in recent years, it has become precisely an important point of debate that you compensate the utility companies you consider to be in trouble with taxpayers' money and budgetary resources. It would therefore be worth examining whether the level of such compensation is not higher than the one fifth reduction in the other pocket of the population. Therefore, it would be important to have a debate on a reduction or an apparent reduction in overhead costs where this balance is created and then to refer to it if this balance is indeed positive. I hope it's positive. The second question, which KDNP's faction leader was so pleased to raise, should indeed be the launch of the debate on the vacant housing and rent system, as what was mentioned in itself was that the National Asset Manager was emptying a certain stock of real estate and that it would be a free tenant, let alone an insufficient but completely misdirective concept, since now, based on the number of newly built apartments, the Hungarian real estate assets would be replaced every 400 years. Obviously, this is such an absurdity that we have to change the system, the volume of new-built apartments with a rental-building programme. There's not enough National Asset Managers to do that. I look forward to your meaningful reactions on the subject. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-10-40	Congressman Lajos Korózs, MSZP, in two minutes.
u2015-06-10-41	Dear House, Very briefly. I hope that the authors have taken it as I intended to say that we will support this proposal in the event that we can negotiate substantively on the amendments that we are going to submit. The other thing is: I did not dispute whether the outstanding amount of HUF 96 billion was a decrease compared to the outstanding amount of HUF 120 billion. Of course, that's a reduction. However, my fellow Members, there is an outstanding amount of HUF 96 billion, and to this, as I have said, debts to real estate amount to 6.8 percent of all debts, all other debts. This is a terrible problem. What I would like to note, finally, is that there is an item between 30-40 billion forints, which is always fluctuating, but it can be fired every year, which is 30 days' worth, in Hungarian, of last month's rent. We know precisely that these will often be debt over 90 days, because there is a very low chance that people have an extremely low income, that if they fail to pay a month's rent, they can pay it three times as much in three months' time. There's very little chance of that. I would therefore like to emphasise that we will present the amendments, and I would ask my fellow members of the Government to support this. Thank you very much. [[Zoltán Haughty applauds.]]
u2015-06-10-42	Thank you. We will now continue with the Members who have asked for a normal word. First of all, Mr Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, representative of KDNP. Here you go.
u2015-06-10-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I am very pleased that all parties have expressed their views in detail on family bankruptcy. Obviously, I do not want to give the opposition any tips, but I would suggest that if this proposal were to help even one debtor to get out of this debt spiral, then vote in favour of this proposal. Obviously, you may have different amendments, there may be some of them that the majority in Parliament will accept, there may be some that the majority in Parliament will not accept. However, if you see that this proposal in its current form or in the form it will be in a few weeks after deciding on the amendments, it can help people... - we believe that this will mean tens of thousands of people, here in one of the speeches there was a number of 25,000, and we trust that it will be more than that. We believe that this model will help far more people than in Slovakia or Austria have asked for similar protection. Obviously, there are many who need it, because in a difficult situation, there are hundreds of thousands of people. So if you see that this can help anyone, whether it is a narrower group or a wider group - we think it is broader, you think it is narrower - then please support this proposal in the end and vote in favour of the family's bankruptcy proposal tabled by KDNP. I'd like to respond to some opposition issues that I could write down. A number of people spoke about the timing, including the currently absent LMP congresswoman and the MSZP. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Recorder.]] why this proposal has not been made before. We have repeatedly said that this proposal, although at codification level... [[On the signal of Erzsébet Schmuck:]] Yeah, there he is; then I kiss his hand, welcome. So this proposal was prepared about two or three years ago and was also drawn up at codification level, but at the same time there were additional tasks and legislative details of the foreign exchange loan rescue that led to a stable debt structure, since there is no exchange rate risk in the Hungarian debt structure now, and this bill could now be brought to Parliament. Otherwise, it could not have been a long-term stable solution due to debtors at risk of exchange rate. Here we are thinking of five years or five plus two years in the case of repayment periods, therefore stability is important. There are many debtors, and to whom do they help, the opposition representatives asked. Obviously, there is no proposal and no one can put a proposal on the table of Parliament that can help all debtors at the same time, since there are as many families, as many households, as many situations, and they can be classified into types. As the foreign exchange loan rescue has been carried out at several paces to help different groups, this proposal is obviously going to help a well-defined group of debtors, which we believe to be tens of thousands. But obviously there will be those who need help from the National Asset Manager; obviously there are those who have a lower level of taxation, there are those who can be helped by municipal support; there are those who have been helped by the difficult situation, let's say, by the reduction of the overhead, because here we can talk about one fifth of those who are understaffed; and there are also those who have foreign exchange loans and bank settlements. The Socialist Party has raised its previous proposal. In 2010, when we started the government, we saw that the Hungarian Socialist Party had actually developed, together with SZDSZ, a proposal for bankruptcy protection, a proposal for private bankruptcy protection, at the same time it was discussed and rejected by its own government and said that it was not suitable for improving the situation. That is why the opposition did not submit that proposal before 2010. Then we met this proposal here in Parliament, as the Socialist Party submitted this proposal from opposition, but at the same time it is doubtful how serious it was to accept it if, in their own government cycle, they found this model inadequate to solve the problem and dared not take on government. Perhaps it was easily submitted from opposition, or it could be referred to rhetorically, although their experts found in the government cycle before it that it was not a suitable bill. As for the final repayment, it is often referred to, or the National Asset Manager, that there are many or few 23,000 people to whom it has helped. [[11.10]] I believe that the 23,000 people whose housing we have managed to secure through the National Asset Manager are a success for the government. We don't know where these people would be right now, they'd be homeless, they'd be homeless, they'd be holed up with relatives, acquaintances, or what their fate would be. It's very important that we were able to help 23,000 people. For 170,000 finalists, who this has now favored; we have heard the opposition voices before him even though it is the help of the upper ten thousand. In this case, the upper ten thousand people in Hungary represent 170 thousand people, and let us not forget that the average loan amount was just more than HUF 5 million, which means that the majority of the loans, which were taken off the shoulders of the people by way of the final repayment, could have been loans of around HUF 3-4 million, and there were obviously higher amounts, which increased the average, and thus came out the sum of HUF 5 million. I think that we cannot call those who have paid back 3-4 or up to 5 million forints of loans in the end. It has also been said that the reduction of the rent is in favour of the rich. The MSZP here also has its own VAT reduction proposal, and I think you doubt it, because then you could say that reducing VAT also makes butter or bread cheaper for rich people. I believe that this was the right decision because it has left billions, even tens of billions, and hundreds of billions, to Hungarian families in recent years. We should not support luxury apartments from the budget - we hear this from the opposition many times. Instead of budget support, it reduces the luxury profit of companies, which is not carried abroad, but is left with Hungarian families, it is left with more wealthy, less wealthy and poor Hungarian families. Obviously, this is the greatest relief for the poor, the most helpful is this measure, but those Hungarian families who pay more bills also spend the money at home that is saved by the reduction of the rent. It is better for a Hungarian family to keep this amount than for a foreign multinational to take it abroad in the form of a profit. With regard to the restructuring of aid, it is also important to note that this did not affect the budgetary envelopes to be allocated to it, and on the other hand, it partially reduced the burden on municipalities, since the revenue compensation expenditure paid by district offices is now paid by the State at 100%, so that there is more resources to cover expenditure compensatory aid, such as municipal aid replacing debt management aid. So the municipalities have more resources to help families below the two million lower entry threshold here, since they no longer have to deal with the debt service, because their debt has been redeemed by the state and the district relief system has taken over the part of their relief system and, on the other hand, in public employment, many have been transferred from aid to the public employment system and from there to the world of work. As regards the attitude towards the proportion of the amounts to be spent on loan repayment and livelihoods: the previous 2013 public opinion poll we conducted on family bankruptcy protection is also known to my fellow Members, and that the overwhelming majority of people agree with the introduction of private bankrupt institutions, family bankruptcy protection, so the social support for this is very high, which is why I propose you to consider the support of the proposal, because you would be against your own voters if you did not support this proposal. At the same time, this poll also asked people what they considered more important, the priority of living costs in this scheme, the priority of debts than payments, or the balance between the two. Well, 26 percent of people said that the cost of living has priority, 9.5 percent said that the payment of debts has priority, and 63.5 percent said that both are equally important, and that a structure should be created where the person can repay the debt, but his livelihood is also guaranteed, so none of them is superior to the other. That's what 63.5 percent of people said. I think that should also be taken into account when taking into account the internal proportions of the law. Help a wider circle - I have already mentioned that there is no common good solution. We believe that this proposal will help tens of thousands of people, so we must be that far ahead. How much does the family fail-safe interfere with the family's spending? Let us not forget that, in the event that a bankruptcy arrangement is established at the first stage and the debtor and creditors agree to lead the principal creditor, the debtor and creditors will in fact supervise the implementation of the settlement voluntarily undertaken by the debtor in the proceedings initiated voluntarily by the debtor, so that he will see that what the debtor has committed himself to implement, and if the repayment plan is determined at the next stage, at the court stage, it is still the arrangement established in the procedure requested by the debtor in accordance with the legal criteria, the implementation of which is supervised by the family bankruptcy commissioner. So here, I would fully refer to the voluntary launch and to the fact that, in general, it is carrying out a consensual or statutory order. It cannot be arbitrary, obviously it cannot interfere with the details, it is not his job, it is not the family's failure-proof to interfere with the small monthly spending, but rather to restore the family's solvency, according to a plan that is accepted jointly. The question of the Anglo-Saxon model was raised, as many here referred to international examples. We ourselves have seen 11 European samples. Basically, it would have been different to regulate the credit system if we had converted to that model, since in the Anglo-Saxon countries where there are really shorter family bankruptcy procedures - walking away, walking away, that is the name - in many cases the credit system would have had to be transformed, as there are walking-away types of credit and non-walking types of credit. There is obviously a higher interest rate on a walking loan, but there is a more liberal family bankruptcy or private bankruptcy, while there are also types of credit where there is no such walkout, there is no way out of debt quickly, let's say, in a year, to cancel everything and then start over. So there is a different financial culture and a different financial structure, which is why there can be such a version of family bankruptcy that seems easier at first, but actually carries several risks. We have chosen the European continental pattern primarily, we have looked through German, French or Northern European patterns, and in these we have a principle of gradualness. This is where the LMP said why there is a first stage, when we only want to help mortgage debtors in the first place, we open up this opportunity to them, and then they come in a difficult situation because of other loans. This is quite simply because of the distribution of the burden. The people whose housing is being directly threatened by the difficult financial situation they have been in, we thought that they should be the first to be involved in this process, first of all in the case of the bankrupts and the courts, because they have the most critical situation, but then open up to everyone else. We said that whoever's in the toughest position should come first and then follow the others. Of course, this will open up to everyone. Why did I bring this up in international examples? If you look at the French regulation, which, if I remember correctly, has been in force for at least 15 years, but also in other countries where there has been law for longer, it has been opened from a narrower circle to a constantly wider circle, so here too was the principle of graduality. We also thought that we should eliminate the fact that those who come here with an intention of abuse, so let us say that they want to reduce the debt generated by their business, and they want to get out of it, or they want to take advantage of the opportunities offered by family bankruptcy, and they must be able to close this door so that we can turn this opportunity into real help, not to abuse it, because it is clearly a sacrifice from the public body system, and it is also a sacrifice from creditors. So it's important that only those who really need it get this discount. I'd argue that this would be a symptomatic treatment. This is a very in-depth treatment, since it fundamentally not only changes the structure of the debt for the family and helps them out of this situation, but also changes a kind of mentality to stretch out for as long as their blanket is worth; if someone has 200,000 HUF's income, he cannot spend 300,000 forints permanently, because sooner or later it will result in such a bankruptcy. Also, the LMP's criticism is that the bill came late. The bill would be late if everyone's debt problems had been solved in Hungary. Unfortunately, there are still hundreds of thousands of debt problems in Hungary, and I can't even understand what it is that you're late. We think this bill came at a very good time, because it came after the adoption of a series of foreign exchange-credit rescue packages, and it can help a lot more tens of thousands of people, so I can't even interpret this criticism. I have already discussed the introduction of the schedule; and some of the LMP's proposals included some of the direction we have taken with regard to the capabilities of the family bankruptcy service, but what the LMP has said here would rather over-burcate the procedure, create too many conditions, and would not help to move forward smoothly. In closing, I would like to say a few more things very briefly. [[11.20]] The first is private bankruptcy and family bankruptcy; it has often occurred to individuals or families to benefit from it. We gave him the name of family bankruptcy protection because the Hungarian debt structure clearly brings together debt partners, husband-wife took out the loan together, or the parent is a guarantor, so there are still many who are involved in debt and concern the family's common assets, such as the common cost debt or personal debt or other debt that is the subject of the assistance here. And the procedure itself involves more than one person, a fellow debtor, a guarantor, who has an interest in clearing the mess. Will such an opportunity reduce payment discipline? [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I think we've managed to put in parts that are strong enough for everyone to see that the loan has to be repaid. Although it helps those overdebted, however, loans should be repaid in all cases, but only in a proportionate manner. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-10-44	Thank you very much. As a speaker asking for a normal word, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2015-06-10-45	Mr President, Dear House, I am very pleased that there is a substantial debate. Thus, contrary to previous motions, we are now able to exchange ideas not only in the form of a closing, but also in response to each other. This is a commendable course, even if some of the differences between us do exist. As a reasoned justification, the reason why the concept of private bankruptcy had to be introduced now is that it would extend gradually because there is no longer any exchange rate risk in the system. So the question arises, let's say, if the framework of the bill was ready, why wasn't it brought in so that it couldn't apply to those exposed to exchange rate risks yet, but let's say that it does apply to those who accumulate their debt. After all, in the case of the accumulation of debt, it can also be said that in this system a large number of Hungarians have paid more than justified, mainly thanks to the activities of foreign networks that buy themselves into Hungary - and here, thanks to the possibility of imagining the quotation mark. Therefore, it would have been possible that instead of stalling for 4-5 years, a assistive method would have been introduced for those not exposed to the exchange rate risk first, and then after the accounting processes which I considered to be faulty, but after closing them, they would have been extended, let's say, to those with housing loans or to those with foreign currency credit. It can be said, and I address this to Mr Rétvári State Secretary, this estimate of 25,000 users is the most optimistic in the entire communication space, and I remember this coming from the Managing Director of the MNB. Here, it is important to mention, in connection with this system, who would fit into this, therefore, from the point of view of capabilities. Mr. Managing Director thought that 25 thousand people could fit into this. But since you are quite right to note this system as a volunteer, the question is how many people can fit in terms of their abilities and intentions. The two ensembles will make up the circle on which some kind of helpful methods can be applied. So it can be said that we are not sure that anyone who sees this system will be willing to join us. The goal would be to work together on a system in which all victims can enter without risk, risk, or forced entry into their lives. After that, you will be guaranteed a helping hand. I would therefore like to say very briefly what the Jobbik can and cannot support. The institution of private bankruptcy, family bankruptcy. And not because it is so socially acceptable, but because it is a logical step, because a wide range of victims must be helped. Therefore, if this system will only help two or three victims, even if we do not agree with its principles, we are likely to be able to support it, because we do not want to be those who take away the help from those who feel it is, even if we do not think it is always helpful. But it is certain that we cannot support a nightmare in Orwell, where, on the basis of the content of later detailed government regulations, they unduly interfere in the lives of families in such a way as to say that it is possible to spend enough money on the treatment of one of the family members, or to tell whether the family car used is to be sold, or whether a family member is to work. So if such Orwellian elements come into the later government decrees, which I hope they will not, but if they do, we certainly cannot support such an Orwellian nightmare. Nor do I know that there are cases where less than a public servant's wage is left in a family member's free-to-spend item weight. This is obviously a powerful and violent intervention in the everyday lives of families that cannot be accepted, not even from a human perspective. At the same time, if we manage to establish a system in which Jobbik's pillars are somewhat effective, so that we can convey to the creditor that we can clean up the contract from financial waste if it remains in the accounts and, in addition, by real means, help everyone who is in this difficult situation without their own fault, we can certainly support it. What is an important issue, he says, is that Fidesz-KDNP has now returned some 1500-1600 billion from the banks to the victims during the settlement process. We say that since there has been no complete settlement at the rate of admission from a distance, think of how many thousands of billions remained unduly in the financial institutions concerned after your truncated settlement. But if we want to resolve the problem, then note - your own representative said it and it is very important, and I suggest that we think further - that due to the amazing lack of housing and housing difficulties in Hungary, a large part of this problem has been blocked, which has become so severe, because the series of incomplete government steps and the supervisory system are amazing - there is no other way to say - a situation has arisen where hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens could be institutionally looted. So it can be said that until the housing problems are fixed, this problem is in some form, but it will be re-produced; it may not be in a foreign exchange crisis, in a different kind of debt or, say, in the amazing revival of the emigration spiral. But what we need to see is that we can't do it without a government-based home-building and rental-building program. That is why Jobbik made an amendment during the recent debate on the budget in order to devote the necessary budgetary resources to such a programme, which would have two pillars. One of the pillars is clearly that with qualified Hungarian contractors, preferably with the greatest possible Hungarian supplier background, we are mass-creating the apartments in which Hungarian young people, middle-aged, older people can move much cheaper than the market price, anyone who claims this, and after a while this apartment could become their property if their payments became a form of voluntary repayment. In this way, we would also contribute to speeding up the exchange of real estate stocks, as the current annual housing figures clearly show that if this stays that way, the real estate stock will be replaced every 400 years. Well, tell me how many percent of the property stock lasts 400 years. So it is obvious that we should expect in a few decades, in terms of housing, if we do not intervene, which are simply unsustainable. That's why it's embarrassing and a little annoying that recently, when several of the Company's representatives for the Housing Constructions contacted all the parliamentary parties, Jobbik had already reached out to Fidesz and KDNP, essentially, without speaking to them. So I would encourage you to highlight the social consultation on this front as well. Sit down with these people, they're dedicated to time and energy, because they're much better at this branch than the people in Parliament. It can therefore be said that until the replacement of the housing stock is launched until a state-based home-building and housing programme is launched, there will be no systemic change. The other branch of this programme can be, and I am pleased that the agreement with the head of the KDNP faction is finally complete: we need to assess the vacant housing stock, the half-million-dollar housing stock of which, I know that part of it is state-owned, I know that part of it is municipal, and one part of it is private, and a good part of it is such that it can no longer be included in the Hungarian housing system, but I am sure that we can find huge and real hidden resources here to keep young Hungarians at home, and quite simply in order that housing should not be a desired dream, for which a Hungarian youth has to save 15-20-25 years. After all, if you look at your average salary according to KSH, even in the capital, where it is higher, you see that you are unable to solve your own housing on your own, to put a meaningful solution on the table within 15-20 years to obtain your own home. There's the Socpol system, which is still heavily restricted, but it's also helping someone with a few million-dollar reserve, and it's gonna cost him $13.2 instead of 16 million to get the apartment. But the average of young Hungarians is certainly not that. An average Hungarian youth should and could be provided with a structure under which he is renting, working while working and struggling to stay on his feet, and his rent will allow him to acquire property after a while. [[11.30]] And all of this would work well if this could happen within ten years, so that Hungarian youth would say that I don't have to go to a slaughterhouse to work abroad or to pick up trash because, from the higher salary there, for the first time, let's say, we're paying off foreign currency loans at home, and then maybe we'll take care of our housing, but he would see that in this country he has a realistic chance of getting his own home within a closed deadline. If we can achieve this, not only the young Hungarians will win, but the national economy will also win. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-06-10-46	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have a two-minute turn, and the first one in the series is that Congressman Dániel Z. Karpát is next. [[Defiance.]] It's called "The Pleasure of Diversity." Here you go.
u2015-06-10-47	Mr President, Dear House, Obviously, it would be easier to calculate the course of the debate in the event that many pro-government speakers immediately agree on what opposition representatives raise. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We're constructive, we're not converging!]] That's what I'm encouraging you to do. I think it is very important to emphasise - and to what I wanted to respond - that when the issue of rent comes up again and again, so how much the Hungarian population has saved by the so-called reduction of the rent, let us state as a basic ground: Jobbik supports the idea of reducing the rent, as foreign networks that would not have been allowed to enter the Hungarian market in this way, and the inexorable sin of socialist governments is that several Hungarian sectors were actually sold below the price in the mid-1990s, providing guaranteed asset-proportional profits to foreign companies, which then made an amazing profit. However, now that we are talking about a drop in debt to 96 billion, which has dropped from around 120 billion here, I would like to urge you once again to look at the budget, how much has been spent in recent years on compensation that has flown to public utility companies from taxpayers' money to ensure that they do not go bankrupt, as you say. If this compensation is higher than the seemingly saved items and it appears to be higher on the basis of the figures, it appears that unfortunately the draft reduction was not fully operational. So the direction - I will say it again - is good, just before we use it as a reference, I would like to encourage you to check the numbers and eliminate the factors that take the value of the retail reduction out of your other pocket. This is what we are talking about here, based on the budget figures, because taxpayers' money is also the money of the victims, the victims of the rent companies. So it is not the right policy to make concessions on one side, but the other is to allow the same amounts to be taken back from their pockets. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-10-48	Congressman Lajos Korózs, MSZP!
u2015-06-10-49	Thank you very much. In these two minutes, for the sake of historical loyalty, I would just like to say to Mr Rétvári, that, yes, the previous government, the government of one and a half years ago, has discussed this, and the government has not rejected it by not wanting to deal with this matter, but wanted to clarify in part the Ministry of Finance, in part the Ministry of Justice, a few things, and that is how it came back to the wallet. Besides, we left the draft law on Minister Miklós Réthelyi's table. Compared to that, I think what Erzsébet Schmuck thought was four to five years too late to submit this bill, because it could have helped significantly more families and people in recent years than it is now. And I must also note that, yes, with this proposal, we agree that if you open the gate a little wider, because I fundamentally agree with the gradual enlargement, there is only one question here about the hard limits of the legislation: who, when and to what extent does the government want to help. If these are clarified, I believe that there will be significantly more people to help in the future than there are now. I came up with a paragraph, and now I've found that it's the 7th. §. It's very interesting, because even the justification, I think, is right for me, and it's on page 130. Years ago, they were caught in a serious debt trap without any help being provided by the submission, and the main limitation is that the debtor can only initiate proceedings if the debt is less than twice the amount of his or her assets, which means the expected revenue for the next five years. So it can be seen that the person whose loan has doubled due to forint weakening, while the value of the property has been halved, will not be able to help that person. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-10-50	Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP!
u2015-06-10-51	Thank you very much. I wanted to respond to Mr Bence Rétvári, Minister of State, because he says that he does not understand what Mrs Schmuck is talking about, and he says that he cannot interpret it. I know what you mean, you're smarter than that. It's like a cat being hung around by its tail, and they say it's how they bring joy. They say, "With this?" Well, when they let him go. [[Defiance from the opposition. Dr. Répássy Róbert: You're smarter than that! Deterioration in the pro-government benches.]] This is what you do with Hungarian society: first you torture them well, let no one succeed for five years, destroy them, first you help those who least need them, then you do another one that you offer under much worse conditions a fake help, and last time, years later, you try to touch anything at all. This is the omission we're talking about. Zsigmond Járai, the central bank president appointed by your government, introduced a bad product, and then, for years, people hired him and made him do it by marketing, and then, in the fifth year of their administration, they realized that there was a big problem and that they couldn't take it any longer. I know that if we could, and the support of the Fidesz wouldn't go down in communication, they'd drag it down to 18 so that it could be dropped off before the campaign. Now, when this segment of society is collapsing, you can see that there is no more pulling, you have to submit it. You did miss this very seriously, and you did put society in this position, that with so much waiting, people were in this position. It would have saved a lot of families if it hadn't been here now, but five years ago. I wanted to respond to my colleague Dániel Z. Kárpát, and I wanted to say that in a significant part I agree with what he said, but let me just draw his attention to the fact that there are a lot of amazing amounts of family houses and that he is not in a broken-down state, but in good condition in rural areas completely abandoned, and that such social assistance as he mentioned in the new house-building programme - but perhaps first of all should be given the opportunity to provide opportunities for families with intent to sell, so that they too can manage and provide assistance to do so. So there are other options. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-10-52	Thank you very much. Congressman Márius Révész, Fidesz!
u2015-06-10-53	Thank you very much. Dear House, It takes some courage to put the foreign exchange credibility issue in the hands of the government, the current governing parties. But we forgive Sallai R. Benedek because he just got into Parliament. In 2010, this was a huge problem. And to say that we didn't do anything until now, I don't know, so you didn't follow what happened. What happened? Technically, our previous government cycle went for it almost the whole time. We first created the legal conditions to settle the Curia decision, and the Court of Justice of the European Union dealt with it. And the thing is, here I would tell Dániel Z. Karpát that, of course, there are things that can be said from the opposition that credit should be accounted for at the admission rate, but unfortunately there is a court decision that says that the exchange rate risk is borne by the borrower. From now on, this is the way, of course, from opposition, but practically not. The other is very important that this step could not have been taken in 2010. Think about the HUF interest rate in 2010. If we had forinted the foreign currency loans then, everyone would have picked up a pitchfork on how much higher interest they would have had to pay for the HUF loans they took. We went on, we took a lot of steps, and now that's the next step, we just got to the point where we can help another round. And I would say to Lajos Korózs, it is quite obvious that everyone - nowhere in the world - cannot be helped by the private institution, there is a circle to which this can provide another help. Out of the 90,000 people, let's say, 25,000 more will be helped. But this will certainly be a step forward. I would say to Dániel Z. Karpát that at the front of the housing loans much has changed, the housing loans have become very low and you can see [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] that the housing sector is slowly booming, with the CSOK and much more. Otherwise, it will start, housing building in Hungary will be on the rise in the coming years. And one more thought. [[The president's ringing again.]] The house loan that is borrowed for housing construction... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2015-06-10-54	Please understand. Please press one more button.
u2015-06-10-55	... it's gonna be the same as what they're paying for rent. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-10-56	Dear Parliament, We now return to the list of those who have asked for the normal word: Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik. Here. [[11.40]]
u2015-06-10-57	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the bill before us, I started from the point of view of what the consumer understands, what the debtor understands in this case, because it is a complicated, rather large one, and, by the way, this has already been said, many new legal institutions will introduce a new procedure for everyday life that will have to be taken into account by law-abiding citizens, especially those who want to use it. So, obviously, I wanted to look in the direction of how much this legislation will apply. If we have reviewed and reviewed previous historical and international experiences, he has repeatedly said, this will essentially be a novum institution in Hungarian law, and will be a completely new regulated area. So I thought that what we have here is perfectly suitable for a debate, or a debate in which we can constructively express those shortcomings, but also the positives with which we can move forward and signal once again, not for self-serving purposes, not for our own voice, but for consumers, in terms of debt. Here's the first question that's come up, which way to choose. The author of this legislation, draft law and bill has decided - and this has been said - that we have chosen the continental route, and we have largely identified the extent to which, where appropriate, we will be talking about a legal institution that supports creditors, or we will be talking about a debtor party. In my reading - looking at the international comparison - continental law is certainly a more pro-lending and a much more even consideration of market conditions, which is precisely why it is a little one-sided to protect creditors. Of course, it also provides an abundance of opportunities and guarantees to debtors, we can say this in any case, and this is an emblematic example of this: the right to walk away - which has already been referred to several times - how dominant it may be in a proposal, otherwise it can be regarded as a party to debt; in which it is not, in fact, a party to creditors. In this regard, I believe that the bill has in any case taken a stand towards continental principles and on the side of greater equality for creditors. Of course, this does not mean that this is a criticism, but that is the quality of the bill itself. It is also worth considering which direction it will be worth moving in, taking into account international practice, and in which direction it might be worth softening this bill, if you will. The other thing I tried critically to see was one of the peculiarities of the Hungarian language. Our very beautiful language can create very ambitious, very meaningful and diverse terms, which is why we may not be able to meet international expectations here, because there is a general expectation, we can say, in the bankruptcy of individuals or people in difficulty, that is to say, that the law uses soft, very soft terminology for them, which means that it does not stigmatize or stamp it. In this way, the use of the language of the private tube - which has increased in the Hungarian language and in the common language in this direction - is in any case much more dehonesting for debtors, so that they are concerned with the term "the private tube," but this is again the peculiarity of the Hungarian language. In any case, it must be pursued - and I believe that the bill has also sought, since the title of the legislation itself is about the settlement of debts for natural persons. So the title of the law itself sought to use this soft terminology, but we found ourselves consistently at the private failing institution everywhere, even though this was shown in several researches that they were much more popular and functioned much better in the international context of private failing institutions - which London Economics described in the material prepared by the Info-service, however, unfortunately, this was only available in English, precisely described - and how much more favourable it is for debtors if the terminology of the whole legislation itself or the entire institution is taken into account. But if we are already in terminology and definitions - precisely in order to understand the debtor, understand the principle of functioning - it would be very important to talk about terminology, definitions of which more than fifty are included in the legislation, as it is a taxative list, as there are novelties, if you like, with legal institutions or very important key moments that are incorporated into the legislation, such as what reasonable housing needs mean, or what it means to keep housing conditions. So there's a lot to be made clear about. I think that everything that we defined as definitions at the beginning of the legislation in the definition should in some way be put to the public in a clear way, because otherwise, I would find it difficult to adapt to what the property for maintaining housing conditions will ultimately serve. For example, what I am living in is the right thing to do, or is it subject to this terminology if I want to use it, or would it otherwise be excessive in some respect, or would it otherwise be excluded from this regulation in some respect? Very interesting, by the way, as a health politician, the first thing that struck me was that the definition of a serious patient was also specific. It says here:. The person suffering from the diseases listed in the Government decree on a serious disability in order to benefit from the tax reduction of the combined tax base..... If someone in this unfortunate situation says and puts it under his nose that you, please, are not seriously ill, it is not certain that you will coincide with such terminology in public thinking. And you can also ask why others are not subject to this, because, for example, according to the government decree on a serious disability, there are dozens, hundreds, thousands of patients who are not subject to this government decree, but are in such a condition that their incapacity to work or even their ability to work is determined or influenced by their health. It would also be very important to stress - and, in my view, it would be necessary to do so to have some kind of understandable communication, some sort of clarification or campaign - in order to clarify what its scope is, therefore, what assets, what revenue elements they can expect, what dates they should be taken into account. It is very important that we make this public as soon as possible. Of course, the problem is that the law will leave this implementing regulation to the public, so as soon as it appears or if it becomes public, people need to know this very quickly. I would therefore urge that, if the legislation enters into force, even with the amendments proposed by Jobbik, we should take these into account, so that it is fair and explained, not just written down, where appropriate, its scope, its personal scope. For example, if the debtor, debtor or other debtor or, for example, the housing person under the age of 75 is affected, he or she is obliged to bear the housing costs, unless he or she is seriously ill or disabled, in order to clarify those who are able to take part in this, who are unable to take part, who can participate in, participate in, or participate in, the debtor's side as a debtor or otherwise. So it would certainly be worth reconsidering. Which is going to be a lot of problems, I think, who can and can't take the initiative. Here I have to turn back to the fact that there is a common condition for your initiative. When interpreting legislation, the main problem for laymen is always the interpretation of the combined conditions, i.e. that all criteria must be implemented at the same time in order to be able to enter. And this is not about one or two cumulative conditions, but it is abundant: HUF 2-60 million in debt; otherwise, the debt must not exceed 200 percent of the available assets of the debtor located in the country, including, of course, the expected income for five years. I'll put it in parentheses: and what about the income you repeatedly refer to as sending home revenue from abroad in the order of a thousand billion? Will this be domestic revenue or will it be domestic revenue? Or will it even be one of the legal revenues that can be involved otherwise or be taken into account, for example, on the basis of bankruptcy assets, or, for example, on the basis of what kind of income will you earn? I could list these terms together, all of which are serious pitfalls, and that is why we have said that they have a very narrow impact on the circle that could otherwise be involved. There are also very serious risks in this case by linking it to a debt of HUF 500 000 or to a criminal charge. Unfortunately, it is increasingly common that high amounts of criminal penalties or fines are imposed, and in the event of their accumulation, it is easy for anyone to fall into this situation. National asset managers are also excluded from this draft legislation. It would also be very important to clarify the organs involved in the legislation, so the family bankruptcy service, to explain to people where it can be found, how it can be achieved, because overall it is very difficult to peel out where it will be and how it will be possible to contact them. [[11.50]] There are also dangers to the family property supervisor's institution, in which perhaps one of the greatest threats is whether a survey has been carried out - and it is certain that they can answer - whether there will be enough professionals in the family bankruptcy services who will perform the role of family property supervisor. Will there be sufficient training, sufficient capacity, and, let's just say, a person with sufficient experience? For this, I suppose, calculations have been made, assessing the number of debtors who can claim this service. Then they must have also assessed the number of persons who could be qualified as family property supervisor and can carry out the work at all, and the workload they have to work with, even if the agency behind it will assist them. The other thing is that I don't want to see anything behind it, but there is one thing behind it that is that there may be abuse, so that both the establishment of it in the administration system and the rules of selection and, if they do so with a tender, the rules of the application will also have to be very strict. This will also be the subject of an implementing regulation. What was, by the way, criticism, and here again the question of whether this legislation will be able to meet international and modern legal requirements is to be raised. For example, such a requirement is to ensure the right of settlement to a reasonable and sustainable minimum income for the family and the debtor. There have been repeated criticisms here that many believe that the right to minimum, reasonable and sustainable income will not be guaranteed. Does it provide adequate accommodation and housing for the debtor? Also, the definition I mentioned at the beginning is fluid in whether you can ensure it. But it is also expected that there should be no coercive, harassing, disciplined system to facilitate payment, and that it should not be prevented from being in a situation such as the one in which it was previously in the otherwise very persistent, demanding debt management and collection companies. Or whether it retains adequate access to public services. So this so-called "cut-off" or exclusion or cut-off from public services should not come forward or appear, precisely because it cannot properly manage its assets under private bankruptcy or even with the administrator. I also consider it a mistake that, in the court debt settlement procedure, Pp. There is no room for cost reductions under this Regulation. So we're talking about a layer of people who should be given a discount, because there's a reasonable reason why this is absolutely necessary. But I also find it wrong that it requires electronic accessibility everywhere and that the debtor and the family administrator themselves take the initiative together. For example, e-accessibility in data protection; whether data protection is ensured in such a way as to prevent unauthorised access and, where appropriate, to allow someone else to know whether they are or are involved in such proceedings. So will your personal data be properly protected? However, I would also like to reflect on what Congressman Szászfalvi said, with a rather serious Patros, that this bill will also help the most vulnerable. This claim is completely false. Let me give you an example of a most vulnerable layer. I imagined a country family of four, where the father is the so-called multi-sales player of one of the multinational companies, so it means that you put it and it's also cassages, so you have to take care of everything. And the mother is a community worker. Two children are raised. Together, their income is HUF 150,000 per month net. They have a dice house with a loan of HUF 8 million, with a repayment of HUF 20 million in present value. They still have 3 million forints of car credit, along with 500,000 forints of Suzuki Ignis, on which the loan was taken. They have a legacy burden of HUF 3.5 million, which must also be paid, since the father of one of the family members was in no better condition, and they are also burdened with legacy. So we can compare the amount of HUF 28,5 million, HUF 2 million in account debt to be added to their so-called outstanding debt. On the other hand, their bankruptcy assets: their income of HUF 7 million for 5 years; their dice house of HUF 5.5 million, as it is so much worse than their sales value; this comes with the HUF 500,000 Suzuki Ignisuk. We find it abundantly that they are already out of the system, since 200 percent, twice as much of the claim was, so to speak, above the bankruptcy fortune, which is available, so the problem is also the result. The other thing that's already been said. It's very high, and it's linked to the entry limit that people can take part in this institution, which is unwarranted in my view. The other thing that was interesting was that they were shutting out companies - that's what we were talking about. This is true that corporate debts may be excluded, but it is also time to amend the legislation on companies. To sum up, I think [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We have raised the problems that the legislators have to deal with, or even the government.
u2015-06-10-58	Please, just stop.
u2015-06-10-59	All the amendments that we consider necessary will be submitted to the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-10-60	Congressman László Teleki, MSZP, please.
u2015-06-10-61	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I asked for the floor because really Secretary Bence Rétvári mentioned that he did not understand that the late law... [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why, won't you support him?]] That's right. So I think I can confirm it's too late. It is not because I want to make a fuss, but because if you see a life situation, you can see that this law is too late, but, of course, as my fellow Member, Mr Korózs said, we would be happy to support you, from the point of view of your support for our submissions, our amendments, because we consider this law important. However, the late one is important because think about it: there have been a lot of situations over the past few years - if I don't say five years - that have led to life situations that cannot be refurbished very much. The reason why it cannot be restored is because it is clear that those who have lost their apartment and are in a state of bankruptcy that is very difficult to restore are not mentioned in this law. And I don't see that it's true that they say that they don't make very much law backwards, but there have been cases in the last five years that they have made retrospective laws that have tried to deal with it or have applied sanctions with different laws. I think that we should have thought in this law of those who have lost their apartment in such a case in the last five years, or had to leave it, or had to be sold. Because today, no one is taking care of those who have lost their apartment in this whole case, they have become land runners here in Hungary, and, indeed, they are still wondering how they can possibly solve their lives in a sublet, or just how they can get a local government apartment. I don't think they have any other perspectives. Today, in Hungary - I checked - there are about 460 thousand empty apartments anyway. This 460 thousand empty apartments means that it is located in 3200 settlements in the country. In every city, settlement, of course, in different order of magnitude. I think that the government should also look at how these apartments could, let's say, be linked to this law, which would provide an opportunity for those who are not already members of this law, because once again, I think it is very important to point out that it is not possible to give up hundreds of thousands of people, a family, just because they are now on the ground. Our proposals would, among other things, address this at some level, and would also address the fact that it is not possible to evict people in the way that you have not defended them and evicted them in the past, because let me tell you - perhaps it does not belong to the law - a personal example of today. A family had to leave Hungary, Budapest - a lawyer - because it was in a debt spiral and started life again in London. In London, however, one of the family members died and had to come back to Hungary, and there was nothing to do here, because his apartment swam away before he left and couldn't start his life again. I therefore believe that these people are not covered by this law, and such cases could be classified when, every day, I think that you, too, pro-government people, encounter cases where they find hopeless families. I therefore think that it is absolutely necessary to look at how empty homes could be involved in debt settlement, which would address the problems that have come into the lives of families over the past period, and they could happen in the future, because this bankruptcy law will not protect everyone and it cannot protect everyone. I would therefore consider it very important that, if such a law is brought before Parliament, which I say once more, I think it is very important, that it should touch the population as widely as possible. This does not cure all problems that are a problem in Hungary. And I understand when you say Márius Révész that they can't help everyone. However, efforts must be made to reach the public as widely as possible with the help expressed by the government. Therefore, I think that many people who would be included in this system will fall out, only that the regulation of the law will not be imposed on them in the near future. [[12.00]] Therefore, I am confident that either with our amendments or in the near future, I suggest that you think about those who have not been included in this law, how to rethink this. The other, very briefly, is that if you look at families, then the large families here are primarily very important, and you should have a special priority in this law, and we do not see them, and we do not see that large families are particularly protected. They're released, if you will. They're released. I think that there should have been a special mention of support for large families, because the amounts are in order, and they are broken down in the law for what amounts they refer to, but large families do not feel the support they would like and could receive. As a result, I would definitely consider it important that the large families are in a better position with regard to the law, but I do not see it at this moment. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-10-62	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Sallai R. Benedek, LMP.
u2015-06-10-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I just wanted to personally thank my fellow Member Márius Révész for being lenient with me, and I wanted to say more precisely that he does not misunderstand me. So your government and the second and third Orbán Cabinets had in their package the possibility of securing final repayments, then the forinting, and now, regardless of the foreign exchange credential problem, the provision of a general family bankruptcy protection, the prevention of private bankruptcy [[Márius Révész intervenes.]] which is not directly related, only partially. My question is why this is the order of the solution, why didn't we start with that. Why didn't we start by ensuring that people can repay by restoring the economy? With the recovery of the economy, why have we not ensured that the euro exchange rate will not continue to deteriorate? So the fact that in the system of measures it came to this place five years after the start of government is a problem because it points out that the government has practically not been able to resolve the economic situation in the last five years without needing it. This is practically an end-of-pipe measure; it is the end of the measure when it already recognises that it cannot deal with the problems and that it must be provided to families in some form. So what I'm implying is that when the government started, the Orbán Cabinet would have had a lot of other options. If you look at the process of restoring the American society between 1933 and 38 in the New Deal, you can say that in five years, results can be achieved if the economy is pushed in that direction. Obviously, the indicators here show a lot of different things. So the measures to which they say they have been taken have not reached the primary, most deprived groups. And that is obviously why we object to the order and say that different priorities should have been applied in the order five years ago, and we say that this is a late measure. Right now, who's really good at forinting besides Matolcsy? So he was his real beneficiary, he was the one who could play with his money, until a significant part of the Hungarian family wasn't good, but he wasn't really good for the banks. So this only has solutions where everyone is suffering because they have not handled these problems well. So what I asked for and told you was not that you did nothing - and I apologize if I was misunderstood - but that you did not deal with the causes, the economy, that everyone should have a job, a decent income, and that you can secure a living to ensure the costs of financing, and that you are not in such a situation, and that, after the economic performance continues to deteriorate and the real livelihood is building an increasingly public work-based society, we will therefore get to this point that this family's bankruptcy protection is needed. So the process of these measures is what I criticized in my two-minute comment. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-06-10-64	Thank you very much. Now we're going to have another two-minute lap. Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, two minutes.
u2015-06-10-65	Mr President, Dear House, I think it is very important to point out that the debate that has developed here on the order of issues that should have been touched first is not unfounded at all, and it is up to its conclusions which classes of society will be left unaided in the coming years and who will receive assistance. I would like to stress that, for example, the Curia did not have a decision that would have forced the government to forint almost at the market rate, or, if it interpreted it as it was, on what basis it would have granted final repayments to those in a much better position at a much more favourable rate. But it can be said and raised in itself that if it had been the frame of this bill in 2012, why didn't the government submit it in such a way that it would provide non-exchange rate risk social groups - while trying to address the situation of those exposed to exchange rate risks according to their own taste - and in 2012 it could have introduced, say, this concept in the direction of victims of corporate debt, and then, when the clearing mechanism, which I would like to stress, I do not support, but the government obviously considers sufficient of its own approach - it could have expanded the system that had already been tested to the benefit of those who had previously been exposed to exchange rate risk. However, the fact is that the total weight resulting from the 70 per cent increase in the exchange rate is essentially beaten down by the market rate forints on average Hungarian citizens who were and still are impaired on foreign exchange credit, while a more fortunate social group has been given a discount at a totally different, more favourable rate, which in itself eliminates the logical basis for your justification, according to which different court decisions would have forced you to help these people by five years of delay. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-10-66	Congressman Márius Révész, Fidesz!
u2015-06-10-67	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I see that my fellow Member of the LMP is living in a different country. So to say that the economic reasons have not been addressed, honourable Member, you do not live in this country. On average, Hungary's government debt increased by 4 percent per year in the last eight years until 2010. In order to say that there should be no particular problem with the forint, the central bank base rate was skyrocketed, even after the change of government it was over 7 percent. Since the central bank's base rate was above 7 per cent, lending did not work. In order for the lending to work, what did the MSZP-SZS government do? He said it's good-good, you can't take out loans in forints, which is why we're opening up the foreign exchange loan option. Everyone's indebted to the foreign currency. That was the situation, and somehow, Congressman, we had to break out. Nothing else has happened in the past, and we have dealt with exactly the economic problems. Congressman, to say that every year the economy is in a worse situation... - look around the country, see what is happening, what is economic growth, how the retail turnover is changing, how the budget deficit will be, how the international credit rating agencies will assess us. If you say that from this, that the economy is starting to take off, even people do not perceive much, you are certainly right about this, but this will continue to change. I would like to point out that the next year's budget, which is ahead of us, also includes significant wage increases. We'll go ahead, Congressman. In order to say that these problems could be dealt with, the budget had to be fixed, and this has happened. Now is the time for this bankruptcy action, as the forinting had to be done, and if, for example, we had only been three months late in the forinting process, then all hell would have broken loose in this country. So at least the fact that the forinting was done in time when the legal and interest conditions were in place, so much praise, I think the government would definitely deserve it. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-10-68	Congressman Sallai R. Benedek in two minutes!
u2015-06-10-69	Thank you very much, my fellow Member, Mr Márius Révész, for his reaction to the points, which is not usually common. Let me tell you, we don't live in another country, we live in another part of the country. Since I live in a rural area and not in the capital, this is probably why I see the country differently. Let me just say that the numbers you've produced that show the performance of the economy are of no interest to me. What interests me is that the poorest regions of the European Union are here; the greatest need for migration so far is here. What we're talking about is why there are empty houses all over the country, because of the lack of economic recovery. So you can tell me any numbers of how anything gets stronger once we do not change the situation that four regions of Hungary from the 230 regions of the European Union are among the poorest - North Great Plain, North Hungary, South Great Plain and South Transdanubia - and these are the facts. The fact that we are performing together with Romania and Bulgaria on an indicator level, and what I care about is how families live, not what your statistical indicators show. Obviously, that's what's causing the difference of opinion that makes you think I live somewhere else. Indeed, I live in the Hungarian countryside, and I see that the situation of families is getting worse, and that is why this measure should be introduced, even though it would have been possible not to do so if, over the past five years, a lot of other things were concentrated on, and legislation did not work as an instrument of power in Hungarian society. Thank you very much. [[12.10]]
u2015-06-10-70	We now return to the normal speeches. Congressman János Volner, Jobbik!
u2015-06-10-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If I may, in a few words, I would like to redirect the conversation to the foreign exchange credentialers, the families in distress, and give them some professional direction. My fellow Member, Mr Márius Révész, spoke about the decline in the Hungarian base rate. My colleague, the international specialised press, agrees that this has also had to do with the announcement and implementation by Fed, the US central bank, of a major recovery programme for years. Until the last period, he pumped $65 billion a month into the US economy, and therefore, in peripheral countries like Hungary, the basic interest rates could decrease. Until this happened - but once again I say that Viktor Orbán or György Matolcsy had little to do with the decisions of the US central bank - the government did not have the opportunity to perform a positive intervention in this area, and the central bank that had the right to decide on the level of the base rate also did not enjoy such leeway. So before the consequences of the decisions of the U.S. central bank are recorded by the government as a result of its own achievements, let's put things right, so how exactly did this happen? The other thing that my fellow Member spoke about was that it was not the government's fault for the exchange rate. My fellow Members, the government's economic policy, on the one hand, obviously has something to do with the exchange rate of the forint - I think even the pro-government representatives do not want to deny it - but it is the government's fault that when the government changed government in 2010, when Fidesz won the election victory, Swiss francs moved at a rate of 170-180 HUF, and now it is around 300 HUF, and when the forints were made, Swiss francs moved in a 250 HUF band. Who, then, has to pay the cost of the HUF price that has fallen significantly since Fidesz's election victory? It is precisely the families that this bill speaks of, whose debt has increased by millions of forints, because your government, with a two-thirds parliamentary mandate, has indeed done nothing for many years in order to convert this debt into HUF. And when you talk about the fact that the forinting process was not even two weeks late, I am sorry that the government was not three months late to implement the forinting, I would like to remind you that you were really not three months late, but more than four years late with the forinting, and that the cost of this four-year delay is now, unfortunately, about HUF 2000 billion, because the government is washing your hands and is constantly talking about it lyingly that it has nothing to do with the exchange rate. Yes, you can. Government impotence, the fact that nothing has happened over the years, has caused a debt increase of millions of HUF to foreign exchange creditors, which has brought tens of thousands of families into a situation where they are now forced to part with their apartments and to lose their property. We must therefore state this as a very important fact. I would also like to say that for four years, Fidesz, the governor of the two-thirds majority of Parliament, spoke about the need to wait, because the laws did not allow them to help foreign exchange creditors. My fellow Members, this is really the top of the line! All the laws that were born in this Parliament in order to cement the power of Fidesz, as a matter of urgency, in an extended summer session, were adopted by the majority of governments in the summer of 2010. They cemented the Media Council, provided for the membership of the Monetary Council with a fidesz representation, made sure that various public functions were occupied by fidesz buddies, but there was no legislation on foreign exchange legislaters during this period. And when the government has been delayed for more than four years with the legislation on the forinting of foreign currency loans, do not refer to the fact that there was no possibility under existing laws, because you have been able to change not only the legal environment, but also the Fundamental Law itself, with a two-thirds parliamentary mandate, so that the conciliation process has not actually taken place. It is also worth considering the responsibility of the government in terms of interest rates, as the problems detailed in the current bill, the significant problems of these families could not have been due to the high level of interest. For years, we have confronted the government at plenary sessions by paying a significantly, several percent lower interest rate for a Hungarian foreign exchange taxer after a Swiss franc loan after his foreign exchange loan at the same time. What did the government say? He blamed him, of course he couldn't do anything, while at the head of financial supervision was Károly Szász, the man who didn't fall into the broker scandal, but the government even awarded him on 15 March because of his outstanding activities at the head of financial supervision, and later became the President of the Hungarian National Bank of Financial Supervision in the person of György Matolcsy, who marked and created the economic policy of the Orbán government. So it should be noted that the 150,000 families in trouble were helped by the government, and that the government's economic policy, powerlessness, and delay put these people in this extremely embarrassing, extremely difficult situation. It is also worth seeing how the government tried to deal with the problems of families in distress. It's been many years since we got to the point where the National Assembly even talks about private bankruptcy. But what is the government trying to do? People are building a new housing park in Ocsa, isolated from jobs, because they believe that foreign exchange-credit families can be dealt with by moving them out there. It's not like we're trying to save these people's homes. We're trying to keep them there, sir. With whom the situation is already irretrievable, we try to get those people to a much lower-cost apartment; no, it's obviously a good deal for someone to build a new residential area in a settlement where there's practically hardly any access to a job. I also think it is important to say that when the government is determined to take some action, it is what preceded it. It's not government wisdom! Well, you guys haven't done anything for years. Jobbik's signature collection action, with which we collected more than 500 thousand signatures among foreign exchange credentials, is the unified action of foreign exchange credential organizations, because my colleague Dániel Z. Kárpát, who is behind me, was able to put the government under considerable pressure by bringing the foreign exchange loan round table to life, resulting in the government taking action at all, because unfortunately it has not happened for years. Each time some new measure came, it triggered these measures. It is also worth seeing how the government has dealt with the foreign exchange credential problem unprofessionally, and how families in distress could stay out of the benefits of government intervention for a long time. What did the government do? To a significant extent, it has seriously damaged the commercial bank's loan portfolio by opening up the possibility of repayment to the best-paying customers, to customers who have not had any problems in paying the loans, paying the instalments, and even being able to pay not only the repayment, but also had the money to get rid of their debt in full. Often, of course, by taking on a HUF loan, not by actually being able to pay for it. But it can be seen that the government has contributed to the significant deterioration of the credit portfolio of commercial banks, for which Márius Révész now blames everyone outside of Fidesz: that there should be no lending in Hungary. Because the best paying customers, the ones who paid their debts, because they were able to pay their repayments, were exempted from the trap of lending, while the people who had a daily problem, where the children were starving, the family was miserable, there was no money to pay for essential items of life, there was no money to pay for the yellow checks, they turned off the electricity, the gas, those people were left in trouble by the government, they did not help them, and now we have to talk about them again in the National Assembly, several years after the victory of the first Orbán government. [[12.20]] I also think it is important to say that when the government talks about not allowing people's homes to be taken away, it does not allow banks to turn them out of their property, it is very often not true on the one hand, and there is an obvious economic consideration behind it, the sudden appearance of between 100 and 150 thousand apartments taken from bank debtors on the real estate market. What then, fellow Members? The fact that all the real estate is being devalued in Hungary, because suddenly there is a significant supply, but there is no demand in the country. The economic policy of the Orbán government is so unfortunate that a few years ago 43-44 thousand apartments were built annually in Hungary, 1572 apartments will be handed over in the first quarter of 2015 according to the data of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office. Ladies and gentlemen. The number of housing constructions fell to seven. This marks the government's economic policy. Indeed, the government must be confronted with these results, it must be pointed out that the government's delay has led to the significantly bad situation of foreign exchange lenders, the socialists were wrong in it, because this situation arose, but the government that had allowed the foreign exchange exchange rate to break down for years, did not touch the possibility of forinting, and when it did so, the forint was made at the market rate. The government also allowed the Hungarian people to pay significantly higher interest rates on their foreign exchange loans than in other Eastern European countries in the same currency, at the same time. Unfortunately, these government failures are now falling back on the head of the entire government, on the head of the whole country, and the cost of this is now being paid by Hungarian society. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-10-72	Thank you very much. Two-minute speech, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Mr Jobbik.
u2015-06-10-73	Mr President, Dear House, Towards the end of the debate, we are trying to provoke some reactions, whether from the level of State Secretary, which call for a clear response to the bill before us, while at the same time making it easier for an opposition group to support the motion before us with a good heart or not. One of these is the extent to which you can be taken seriously to explain why, after the five-year term, victims who otherwise comply with the very, very strict conditions of family bankruptcy or private bankruptcy cannot be granted walking rights. It can be seen that there are not only international examples of walking away after five years within the framework of a walk away system, but we also need to see that in Hungary, if a bank, say, tries to sell a failed loan to a follow-up manager, what value does the loan amount receive in percentage terms: 20%, 25%? Within a five-year private bankruptcy term, it is not excessive to estimate that even the bank itself is better off than passing the ball to a debt manager. Therefore, it would be a fundamental expectation... - and from the point of view of Jobbik, the banks' well-being is not an aspect at all, and I would like to point out in a footnote that we would have them properly accounted for against you, because you have not done so, which is precisely why we are in the middle of this problem. But we must add that it would be absolutely justified for those who endure this very difficult period of time to take a walk after five years. Therefore, it calls for a professional and adequate answer as to why this does not arise seriously at the heart of the government's thinking, why the possibility that might be closest to justice does not arise. So I can suggest to you, and at the same time I demand that you allow these people to go free after very difficult years and very difficult. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] He lived in the midst of human fates. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-10-74	Mr László György Lukács applied for a normal speech, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-06-10-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Continuing where I had left off, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to one or two very important details. What is mentioned in the bill is that those who owe none of the debts due to breach of the liability rules of the companies have so to say not broken the veil of limited liability, as they are called in the legal terminology. This is also a condition of the initiative. It was also mentioned here that this is quite rightly dealt with in order to avoid abuse by the legislation and rejects these forms of settlement, thus excluding the possibility of abuse. However, if we are on this point, it is also worth drawing attention to the fact that, together with all of this, so that it can work well with the private failing institution, it would also be worth reviewing our legislation on companies, especially with regard to the Ptk., so that we can finally lay down rules in which we introduce even more creditor protection measures there, giving much less opportunity to break these liability rules, so to speak. On the other hand, it takes into account the non-negligible fact that, at present, in Hungary over the last 25 years, a large number of people have accumulated various debts or debts, whether in individual enterprises or in companies, because very often they did not have any other means of living. The common language calls it that they had forced businesses, and these forced undertakings were not to avoid certain burdens in order to harm the economy, but to maintain them in an emergency situation, not because of luxurious, luxurious things, but to ensure their minimum livelihoods. So when we say that they are excluded, of course, it is legitimate, because they should not be allowed to play tricks in these cases, but there is also a need to think about other alternative ways of resolving them, and, for example, to modify the fact that we are tightening up the liability rules even more, where appropriate, in the section on companies at Ptk. What is very important, has been said, and one of Jobbik's important and worthy proposals to do so, which would give the administrator the opportunity to renegotiate, renegotiate, in any event in the interest of the debtor, the contractual relations that have been concluded, which, unfortunately, in contractual relations with the so-called clearing of foreign currency loans, has not fully helped and has not been fully helped by the laws relating to the accounting of banks, would give us a second opportunity here. The debtor, but in particular the creditor, would be involved in the creation of a contract condition that is more balanced, a contract agreement in which a contract would be reviewed with which the contract was originally concluded, either for the mortgage credit or for the property or for other objects, bearing a burden on property. In any case, it should be possible for Gábor Gadó to work on these conditions, and then perhaps we would move towards the goal, which could be summarised or summarised as a whole, in a study published by Gábor Gadó in 2008, and it is certainly known to you that state intervention should not be limited to helping people in a temporary crisis. [[Interviews from Fidesz: An expert on Jobbik?]] And here comes the point: the threefold thought of prevention, return and rescue must be taken into account. In this case, it must be complete, and the way that your private institution can be officially complete is if this appearance and purpose is to be achieved by the present bill, and it can be fulfilled that Jobbik's proposals, which have just been formulated here by Daniel Z. Carpathian or, where appropriate, by other fellow Members, can be fulfilled, and I believe that this wish will have to comply with this legislation. As I said at the outset, the primary objective is certainly not a self-interest, but how much it will be applicable, how much this legislation can be interpreted from the point of view of the consumer and the debtor, because the debtor and the creditor cannot do what our fellow Member Vas Imre usually does by doing a job or a thing by reading the general justification of the legislation, because it does not yet make it understandable and applicable. It must be applicable to him, understandable, understandable, and thus able to enter this legal institution, so that he can participate effectively and effectively in this legal institution and provide him with sufficient security. [[12.30]] This must therefore be borne in mind first in the debate, and should be considered along these lines, I repeat, in terms of consumer and debtor-friendlyness, and in the light of this, the possible options for amendments that I believe are absolutely necessary, of course, taking account of international practice and previous Hungarian scientific practice in the work carried out in this direction. I would also like to thank you for the detailed preparatory material with which Parliament was available in the framework of the information service, which was widely available. The problem, of course, was that it was only available in a foreign language, but in any case, there is a need for progress and an opportunity, taking these into account. If we consider the whole building to be a building, then this bill of your privacy before us - and it will be said later this week, for example, in the basic supply - is definitely a foundation, and we need to put bricks with which the institution itself will be stable and timeless, because otherwise it will not serve the help of the people who were originally targeted. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin is applauding.]]
u2015-06-10-76	I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[Mr Lajos Korózs: Secretary of State Répássy here. No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. Dear Parliament, The general debate is hereby closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Congressman Imre Vejkey.
u2015-06-10-77	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I thank the opposition factions for the basically supportive attitude of MSZP and Jobbik to our bill. I also thank you for the criticisms that focused mainly on what kind of debtor should be included in the private bankruptcy procedure and that the minimum return would not be imposed on creditors or greatly reduced. In any case, I would like to draw your attention to the extent to which each group of creditors would be entitled to be satisfied and to pay back, on the basis of the bill, because this has not been said. The first group is the senior creditor, i.e. the first mortgage lending bank, only up to the sales value of the pawn at the time of the placement, i.e. up to the hedging value of the property. In the second group, utility companies, creditors, entitled to compensation and maintenance in a privileged situation are entitled. This should be linked to the third group, non-privileged creditors, i.e. uncovered bank claims. For these purposes, i.e. between the second and third groups, 40% of the capital debt shall be secured for return by a 20 per cent difference between the second and third groups. Finally, the last group, the fourth group, is the subordinated creditors, i.e. the holders of other private-law transactions between individuals lending money to the debtor and private individuals. For these, only 5% of the capital debt should be secured, so 95 percent of the capital debt can be released. The private bankruptcy procedure is therefore a legal institution whereby the State protects the indebted individual and the families through him, while also seeking to enforce the legitimate interests of public and private creditors and the interests of the stability of the financial institution system. Ladies and Gentlemen, When introducing a private failing legal institution, it is not appropriate to combine social aspects with economic and professional aspects of private bankruptcy proceedings; the purpose of the private bankruptcy procedure is primarily debt settlement, and the debtor's exemption from payment of remaining debts can be achieved by fulfilling its conditions. The private bankruptcy procedure is not capable of settling the situation of credit taxpayers whose assets have already been sold in the context of an execution or out-of-execution pawn sale. Other state measures to be developed as soon as possible are needed to address the situation of the abovementioned population groups, and it seems that the social system of the municipalities will not be able to address these problems independently without State aid. Measures to settle the situation of these families and to ensure their housing should be taken regardless of whether or not the private bankruptcy procedure is introduced. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks. Lajos Korózs applauds.]]
u2015-06-10-78	Thank you, too. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it is possible to submit the amendments by 4 p.m. tomorrow. [[Lajos Korózs: We're going to write.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that T/5031 on minimum service fees payable to school cooperatives in order to protect the wages of employees in the school cooperative. There will be no general discussion of the legislative proposal No 1 because its author has withdrawn it. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law between Hungary and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg on the avoidance of double taxation and avoidance of taxation in the field of income and property taxes will follow. The submission is T/5032. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Orbán, State Secretary of the Ministry of National Economy, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-06-10-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In March 2015, we entered into a new agreement with Luxembourg on the avoidance of double taxation in the field of income and property taxes. The political and economic changes in recent decades, the development of international standards, made it necessary to revise the conventions negotiated before the 1990s. In this spirit, our German, British, American, Danish and Swiss agreements have been renegotiated in recent years. As usual, we have negotiated the Convention on the basis of the mandate given by the Prime Minister's decision and have signed it with the Luxembourg party in Brussels after the government decision. The application of the Convention precludes double taxation of the income of individuals and businesses, specifying the scope of which Contracting State has the right to taxation in respect of each type of income or type of property. The Convention lays down the application of the principle of equal treatment and allows both Contracting Parties to initiate a mutual conciliation procedure with the other Party if either Party considers that the taxation of the other Party does not comply with the provisions of the Convention. The Convention contains several guarantee measures to prevent tax evasion and tax evasion, as well as the possibility for the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties and the tax authorities to use a full exchange of information, including financial data, in accordance with the current international standard. In terms of the content of the Hungarian-Luxembourg Convention, it complies with international practice, the OECD Model Convention and the principles and rules adopted in its commentary, and is in line with other bilateral agreements that we have concluded so far, and serves well the development of bilateral relations and investor interests. In order for the international treaty on the agenda to become part of internal law, it is necessary to recognise its binding scope and publish it in law. [[12.40]] In view of the fact that the Convention concerns an exclusive legislative object, it should only be published by law. To do this, I ask the honourable Members for their support, and I ask you to accept this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-10-80	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the Members, the first among which will be the speeches by the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2015-06-10-81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The convention before us is a series of steps by which we will strengthen our relations with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, but a few words should also be said about the history and the wider environment. The diplomatic relations between Hungary and Luxembourg took place on 9 February 1924 with an accredited agent from Brussels. There was an independent Hungarian embassy in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg between 2001 and 2009. A Hungarian-Austrian consular and Hungarian-Austrian diplomatic cooperation memorandum of understanding is currently in force in Luxembourg. In the list of high-level meetings, it is important to highlight the meeting of Grand Duke Henrik and President János Áder in Luxembourg in May 2014, during which the President of the Republic invited the Grand Duke to visit Hungary. As a result of our consular representation agreement with the Czech Republic, from autumn 2011 the Brussels consulate held monthly consular reception days in the building of the Czech Embassy in Luxembourg and from January 2013 at the Austrian Embassy. Honorary Consul of Luxembourg in Hungary István Horváth is a retired ambassador. Hungary represents Luxembourg's visa representatives in Almati and Kisinyov. We are in contact with the partners in Luxembourg within the framework of the Hungarian-Benelux friendly section of the Parliament. The European Director's meetings are regular in the Benelux-V4 round, but not primarily Luxembourg's initiative. Felix Braz, Minister of Justice of Luxembourg, visited Budapest on 22 May 2015. The main item on the agenda of the visit was the preparation of the country's current EU presidency. And with regard to economic relations: due to the size and economic policy orientation of the Luxembourg relation, it does not play a significant role in our external trade, but our external trade balance is positive. It is important to continuously increase the currently relatively low bilateral trade in goods. Based on the official statistics of the MNB, Luxembourg is the second most important investor in Hungary after Germany. We appreciate Luxembourg's investors, and we are counting on them more, especially in the production sectors. An intergovernmental cultural convention was signed in 1986 to strengthen our educational and cultural relations, on the basis of which an intergovernmental joint committee was set up. The latest scientific, educational and cultural work plan was for the years 1998-2000. During the 2014-15 academic year, one major scholarship student and four main self-cost students, together with five students from Luxembourg, are studying in Hungary. The BKF, ELTE and the University of Szeged have relations with higher education institutions in Luxembourg. Our bilateral embassy in Brussels performs the cultural diplomatic tasks. There is no cultural cooperation agreement between Luxembourg and Hungary, we do not have a cultural institute in Luxembourg. In connection with the Balassi Institute in Brussels, there was a need to extend its operation to Luxembourg. Our more important conventions: the 1970 Convention on Air Transport, the 1988 Convention on Road Freight, the 2004 Convention on Cooperation in Tourism, the 2009 Agreement on the issuance of visas and the collection of biometric data, the 2014 Cooperation Agreement with the Austrian Embassy in Luxembourg and the current Convention of 11 March 2015 on the avoidance of double taxation. This tax convention we are discussing promotes bilateral economic relations between Hungary and Luxembourg. It provides a more favourable, transparent economic and legal background for Hungarian and Luxembourg investors and economic operators. As the Secretary of State said, the main objective of the Tax Convention is to avoid double taxation, especially in the area of income and property taxation. Its importance is to exclude double taxation of incomes of individuals and businesses by applying it to determine the scope of which parties have the right to taxation in respect of each type of income and type of property. The Convention provides the competent authorities of the Contracting Parties with a full exchange of information and ensures that either Contracting Party initiates a conciliation procedure with the other Party if it considers that its taxation does not comply with the provisions of the Convention. My fellow Members may also see that this Convention opens up a new opportunity in our relations with the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, so please support its adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-10-82	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The faction of the MSZP indicated that the keynote speech will be given by MEP László Szakács. Here.
u2015-06-10-83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I'm gonna do two weird things now. One of them is that I'm going to praise the proposal. I believe that, now that there is an opportunity, we will, of course, propose to this House that it accept this proposal. The other thing is, I'll get right to the trial of the motion. Here, income and property taxes are covered by this convention: personal income tax, corporate tax, land tax and construction tax, and income tax on individuals, corporate tax, communal, commercial tax. In our view, however, there are several parts of this Convention that we propose to adopt, especially by making bilateral taxation relationships predictable and by explicitly excluding double taxation of businesses' income. For each type of income and wealth, the two parties reached an agreement on which party has the right to taxation. Of course, we support the mandatory conciliation procedure in all respects, even if the Convention provides for this if one party not only violates its obligation in this regard, but the other party otherwise calls for its obligation to not tax taxpayers properly. I would like to highlight one or two points, which, in our view, has been a problem point in the past, which, by the way, has caused Luxembourg and several European states to have had the tax that they had, and otherwise, this situation can be brought to an end by the Treaty. In the case of non-natural persons, domestic residence, double residence, the place where the actual business is conducted determines the obligation to pay taxes. Profits from shipping, air traffic and inland waterway transport are taxed in the State of their actual place of business. No withholding tax on interest, no withholding tax on royalties. What is most important is that, on the basis of the 2008 OECD Model Convention review, this Convention also includes provision for the exchange of information as a full exchange of information. Therefore, it cannot be argued that there is no domestic interest to deny any information concerning either a bank secret or a ownership interest, the issue of this. Therefore, we believe that this is by all means transparency and circumvention of tax rules, sir! , reduces the possibility of tax optimisation appropriately and affects the direction that we all consider acceptable. [[12.50]] We believe that the conclusion of this convention gives both Contracting Parties a more favourable, transparent economic and legal background and that the MSZP fraction will therefore support this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-10-84	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Tibor Bana, the lead speaker of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-06-10-85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Jobbik supports the proposal for an agreement, which lies before us. This Convention replaces the Convention concluded in 1990 and updates its necessary points and updates them in accordance with the rules of the OECD Model Convention. I would like to draw attention to some changes that have occurred in comparison with the previous agreement. The amendment to Article 7 in respect of the profit of the undertaking. In addition, as compared to the agreement of 90, the publication of this agreement removes the free profession as a separate article from the convention and simplifies the part concerning students. I would add that the agreement of 90 included exceptions to certain Luxembourg companies, which is no longer in this agreement, so it has changed in this way. We welcome and welcome the fact that we have made similar agreements with more and more countries, and we have important partners such as Germany, Switzerland, Denmark, Great Britain and the United States, and we have put our tax policy relations with these countries on a new footing. I trust that the publication of this agreement will strengthen cooperation between individuals and businesses in the two countries, Luxembourg and Hungary. This can in any case have a positive impact on business relations, boost economic life and make progress in terms of learning, research and employment for individuals. I can assure the government, on the part of our group, that in this case the events will not take place in line with the Luxembourg tax scandal, because we can remember the big debate, Jean-Claude Juncker, the President of the European Commission, was also strongly associated with these debates. So we hope that there will really be a positive focus here, and that the two countries can benefit from it. Of course, the agreement points in this direction, but I think I had to make this little remark. However, we can, of course, support this agreement. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-10-86	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I will ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Secretary of State, please.
u2015-06-10-87	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, First of all, I must say that I am pleased to say that all the speakers agreed with the Government's proposal, so there is consensus between the Parliament's walls that this new convention supports the endeavour to start, both on the international stage and in our country, to detect and prevent international tax evasion and tax evasion, and to certify that our country may be one of the countries that support the extension of the exchange of tax information considered to be the most effective tool to combat tax evasion. I can only confirm what Mr Szakács said: this Convention provides for a full exchange of tax information, including banking information, on request, and precludes the requested State from refusing to provide the requested information on the grounds that it does not need the information for its own tax purposes. On this basis, I would ask the honourable Members to support the bill tabled. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-10-88	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that it is possible to present the amendments by 16:00 tomorrow. Dear Parliament, It follows a general debate on the amendment of Act C of 2000 on Accounting and of certain laws on financial matters until closure. The submission was made in T/4852. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Benő Banai, Minister of State, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-06-10-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, On 19 May 2015, the Government submitted its bill amending Act C of 2000 on Accounting and certain laws on financial matters. The system of domestic accounting is regulated at several levels as a result of our membership of the European Union. The basic accounting provisions are laid down in the Accounting Act, which includes EU standards that are constantly transposed. Following the consultation of the Member States, in June 2013, the new accounting directives, which form the basis for EU accounting rules, were adopted, replacing the previously existing EU rules. The new Accounting Directive should be transposed into national law by the Member States by 20 July 2015. Accordingly, the purpose of the bill is to transpose the new Accounting Directive into domestic accounting legislation. Dear House, The new Accounting Directive will lead to a significant change in the requirements for annual financial statements and consolidated annual accounts on a number of issues. The amendments concern the concepts used in the Accounting Act, change the structure of the balance sheet and profit and loss account scheme, and also the mandatory content of the additional annex which forms part of the annual accounts. The changes will be applied for the first time to the annual accounts and consolidated consolidated accounts for the financial year beginning on or after 1 January 2016 in accordance with the new Accounting Directive. Honourable Members, The new Accounting Directive builds on a philosophy different from that of the previous Directive and follows the principle of maximum harmonisation for small enterprises. This means that, in some cases, Member States should not impose more or less obligations on the small enterprises concerned than those laid down in the Directive, leading overall to a further reduction in the administrative burden for small domestic businesses. The new Accounting Directive significantly increased the thresholds for each enterprise group. In this respect, the principle of maximum harmonisation for small enterprises means that the thresholds for simplified annual accounts under the Accounting Act should be more than doubled. Under the new directive, this limit corresponds to a balance sheet total of HUF 1.2 billion and net turnover of HUF 2.4 billion. The bill proposes a corresponding amendment. In practice, 97-98 percent of the domestic companies covered by the Accounting Act will be able to prepare a simplified annual report in the future. The limits for exemption from the obligation to draw up consolidated consolidated accounts for the group as a whole will also be increased. In this respect, too, the administrative burden will be reduced and fewer parent companies will be obliged to draw up consolidated consolidated accounts in the future. In accordance with the new Accounting Directive, the amendment provides for additional information, disclosures for certain medium-sized and large enterprises, as well as for undertakings which are defined by the new Accounting Directive and the Accounting Act as public-interest farmers. For these undertakings, new information, communications are justified by the public interest, investor protection and transparent operation. Dear Parliament, The new Accounting Directive does not allow separate accounting and presentation of exceptional items in previous accounting rules. Exceptional income and extraordinary expenses are items that are independent of normal business activities, are outside the normal business of the entrepreneur, are not directly related to normal business activities. As a result of their liquidation, items previously determined as extraordinary income or extraordinary expense shall be accounted for, in accordance with their content and nature, between other revenues, other expenses and expenses and revenues of financial operations governed by the Accounting Act. This results in a significant change in domestic accounting standards, in particular in the breakdown and structure of the profit and loss account. However, the changes follow the logic of the accounting system, so they can be easily adapted. Dear House, According to practical experience, the accounting rules for the business or business value governed by the Accounting Act are often used by companies for tax avoidance purposes. In order to prevent this, the accounting rules for the recognition and depreciation of business or business value in accounting records will be changed. [[13.00]] On the basis of the amendment, it is no longer possible to show business or business value in the future, whether positive or negative, in cases where a company acquires securities representing the ownership rights of another company. Following the amendment, it will only be possible to establish a business or business value if the purchase of a business or business network of a company is carried out on its own. The amendment to the business or business value also provides that its value is to be accounted for as depreciation for at least five years, but not more than ten years. Dear House, In line with the new Accounting Directive and the wider international accounting regulation, changes in the rules for the distribution of dividends are also included in the bill. On the basis of the current accounting rules, the amount of the dividend shall be shown in the accounts of the year for which it was approved. On the basis of the amendment, the amount of the dividend will be recognised in the accounting records at the date of the decision to do so during the year. Therefore, the former balance sheet item ceases to exist, the profit and loss account will only contain the deduction of the taxable profit and the dividend payable will not be included in the profit and loss account. As a result, it is replaced by the category of taxable profit in the legislation where the balance sheet profit was previously recorded. A change in the accounting rules for dividend settlement should therefore be implemented through several other laws, including the recently amended Trade Act. However, given that the new accounting rule for the recognition of dividends does not substantially affect reporting, the original legislative intention in the related laws is not affected by this conceptual clarification. In this context, the rules on the dividend cap contained in the Civil Code are also changing. According to the bill, the dividend payment is decided by the company after the annual accounts have been drawn up and the dividend payment may be used with a free profit margin plus the taxed result of the previous financial year. Dear Parliament, In addition to the transposition of the new Accounting Directive, the bill also contains clarification provisions concerning additional tax legislation. Some provisions of the Law on the Rules of Taxation are amended, among other things. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] The purpose of this is to ensure that certain provisions of the Law on the Rules of Taxation are governed by the commercial headings in force at all times rather than by the current fixed time. The additional purpose of the amendment is to ensure that the official price for the communication service between the online cash register and the State tax authority is not the highest price, but the price fixed by separate legislation in the future. In the case of the Law implementing Community customs law, it is on the basis of practical experience that it is justified to clarify and supplement the provisions on ex post controls, in which the provisions concerning the possibility to change the decision of the authorities are also amended. The bill also contains amendments to the so-called FATCA Agreement between the authorities on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts in order to reduce tax evasion with the United States of America, which is intended to comply with the principle of the highest benefit contained in the international contract. By letter dated 7 October 2014, the United States of America notified that it had concluded an intergovernmental agreement with several States containing the more favourable conditions described above and that these more favourable conditions could also be applicable to Hungary under the FATCA Agreement. However, following an overview of the provisions, it was found that the application of the provisions presented by the US Party does not create more favourable conditions for Hungary. Therefore, Hungary does not wish to exercise the right to apply these advantages, which it must notify the United States of. The proposal contains the text of the authentic English text and the official Hungarian translation of this Exchange of Letters, in accordance with the legislation in force. Dear House, These are, therefore, the government's proposals to amend the Accounting Act and the individual laws on financial matters. With the adoption of the amendments contained in the bill, Hungarian accounting regulations will fully meet EU requirements, which will serve the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses and reduce the administrative burden on small and medium-sized enterprises at the same time. I therefore ask you to support and accept the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-10-90	Welcome, fellow Members. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. In this context, I give the floor first to Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-10-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Parliament, Due to our membership in the European Union, domestic accounting legislation is regulated at several levels. Following Member States' consultations, the new Accounting Directive, which forms the basis for EU accounting rules, was adopted in 2013. The new directive has led to significant changes in the requirements for annual accounts and consolidated accounts on a number of issues. The new Accounting Directive significantly increased the thresholds for each enterprise group. Accordingly, the amendment increases the thresholds for simplified annual accounts to more than double, allowing the large majority of domestic companies covered by the Accounting Act to produce around 97-98 percent of the annual simplified accounts in the future. As the Secretary of State has just mentioned in his speech, the new Accounting Directive does not allow the accounting of exceptional items in previous accounting rules. Exceptional income and extraordinary expenses are items that are independent of normal business activities, are outside the normal business of the entrepreneur and are not directly related to normal business activities. This also results in a significant change in domestic accounting standards, breakdown and structure of the profit and loss account. However, the changes follow the logic of the accounting system so that they can be easily adapted. Another significant change is that, in line with the new Accounting Directive, international regulation and proposals from professional organisations, the rules on the recognition of dividends also change. The amount of dividends shall be shown in the accounting records at the date of the decision in the future and not in the accounts of the year for which it was previously approved. Therefore, the former balance sheet item ceases to exist and the profit and loss account will include the deduction of the taxable profit and loss account. Dear Parliament, The bill also includes minor amendments to the Act on the Rules of Taxation, which essentially aims to ensure that certain parts of the Act on the Rules of Taxation are governed by the existing commercial tariff codes instead of the current fixed time. The purpose of the amendment is also to ensure that the public price for communication between the online cash register and the State tax authority is not the highest price, but the price fixed by separate legislation in the future. Furthermore, it is important to stress that, on the basis of practical experience in the case of the Law implementing Community customs law, it is appropriate to clarify and supplement the provisions on ex post controls, in which the provisions concerning the possibility to change the decision of the authorities are also amended. The bill also contains an amendment to the so-called FATCA Agreement on the automatic exchange of information between authorities on financial accounts with the United States of America in order to reduce tax evasion, in order to comply with the provision containing the principle of the highest benefit contained in the international contract. Ladies and gentlemen, The T/4852 in front of us. Act C of 2000 on Accounting and the bill amending certain laws on financial matters aim to transpose the EU Directive on the annual financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings into the Hungarian legal order. We can therefore basically talk about a harmonisation measure. In order to comply with EU legislation, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the amendment by their votes after a constructive debate. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-10-92	I now give the floor to István Józsa, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2015-06-10-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, In its nature, we are indeed discussing an EU legislative harmonisation proposal, and the national secretary of state has also told us that 20 June 2015 is the deadline, if I understand correctly, for the period 2013/34. The transfer of European directives to the Hungarian legal order must take place. [[13.10]] I think it is easy to see why these European accounting directives should be transposed in different Member States: to compare the financial statements and simplified financial reports resulting from accounting. Both the content and the formal parts of this are fully accepted. According to the justification, this is an EU transfer: the application of international financial reporting standards, i.e. IFRS systems, to which the expected changes will bring the Hungarian accounting environment closer by a further step, will then become more general in the Union, so that the annual financial statements, consolidated annual financial statements and related reports of the specified types of enterprises will be accounted for in accordance with the present submission. Among the planned changes, everyone mentioned that the new Accounting Directive does not allow the accounting of exceptional items. This does not mean, of course, that, in the future, the items that have so far been incurred or accounted for in such a title cannot be accounted for by the company; it is merely that, under the EU Directive, this category will cease to exist and that items previously determined as extraordinary income or extraordinary expense should be accounted for in accordance with their content and nature in the other categories, i.e. for reasons, or in terms of expenditure on financial operations or revenue. This is technically more of a technical change, but it also requires a certain change of attitude from the profession, the financial accounting profession, who prepare these reports. The use of simplified annual accounts, I believe, is not exaggerating when I say that it has been extremely extensive. So this estimate is very convincing with the new limits, so that the balance sheet total increases from HUF 500 million to HUF 1 billion 200 million, the annual net turnover increases from HUF 1 billion to HUF 2.4 billion. Only the average number of people employed during the financial year, and the number of people does not change. This is certainly a significant change at EU level. However, the vast majority of Hungarian companies have done so far simplified financial statements, making this so common that only 2-3 percent of the companies will not make such reports. So, after all, this does not mean too much change in Hungarian terms. Unfortunately, these thresholds have already been covered in Hungary, if not 97 percent, but at least 93 percent. So in Hungary, the number and proportion of non-SMEs companies in this regard were quite small. This can be traced back to many things, and it would certainly be useful if this change were to happen, so the report of Hungarian capital-powered companies could also be seen by the profession and the Ministry of Economy. The rules on dividends are also changing, in the spirit of a single settlement. The profit and loss account will include the deduction of the profit and loss account, and the amount of the dividend will be recorded in the accounting records at the date of the decision in question in the future and not in the accounts of the year in respect of which it was approved. It's also a standardization, it's practically more lifelike this way. It is likely that comparability can be substantially improved. Interesting entry into force, too. The majority of the proposal shall enter into force on the day following its publication and the other parts shall enter into force on 1 January 2016 at the latest. Here, I would like to mention some of the problems relating to the entry into force. The changes would be applicable for the first time to consolidated consolidated accounts drawn up from the financial year starting in 2016, not for the financial year starting in calendar year 2015. This raises certain problems of comparability; if I were to put it very professionally and strictly, it could be said that this is a violation of the principles of convergence and consistency, as the 2015 base, made by a new method completely different from the rules applicable in 2016, must be used by the profession. So here at least a professional training, professional guidance, interpretational assistance would certainly be useful, because it is not certain that everyone will be able to interpret and make this comparison in the same way. The elimination of the accounting category of extraordinary incomes and expenses is not fundamentally wrong, but it is necessary to open the ledger accounts for their registration in accordance with events to be classified as other and financial revenues in order to provide adequate information for the determination and control of the corporate tax base. The current text of the proposal now does not contain this requirement, so it includes misunderstanding, perhaps even the possibility of tax avoidance in case of bad faith. The amendment does not clearly regulate the way in which items currently shown as exceptional are to be drawn up and redistributed to the compilation of the 2016 accounts. This may result in a breach of some accounting principles, including the principle of authenticity. We'll have to find a way to deal with this in the regulation. The introduction of IFRS rules in part may not be appropriate, more useful and useful if, with a delay of one year, the government submitted a completely new codification and accounting law for the 2017 financial year, so a new accounting law would be issued, which already complies with IFRS requirements and the harmonisation of current IFRS and US GAAP, US accounting standards. So it would most likely be possible to create a comprehensive and good regulatory environment. [[13.20]] Another advantage would be that, over a period of one and a half to two years, re-training and further training of professionals could be implemented through annual compulsory accounting training, so that the introduction of a new law based on international foundations could be smooth. So it is not just us - basically this is a professional observation - that the profession sees a comprehensive amendment imminent and that it must be taken into account. I understand that there is an EU future obligation here, but this harmonisation of EU legislation may be more limited and comprehensive after one year's delay. On this basis, the MSZP supports this bill in terms of its content, although all its details are not acceptable. The possibility of drawing up a simplified annual report opens up to several businesses, which is a positive one, thus reducing their administrative burden, including their cost. So this part is positive. Financial enterprises and analysts have made a number of comments on the proposal, which I have already tried to explain, which the Ministry has not corrected on the basis of feedback, so it would be worth discussing with the profession. The general observation is that the adaptation of the accounting law is a misguided legislative attitude. A complete, comprehensive amendment to the legislation, preparation for a code that complies with the latest European standards, would be necessary, with which the financial profession fully agrees, and with sufficient preparation time a new law would be more easily applied by economic operators than by the often changing specifications. So that's our critical point. As a result, our voting behaviour is likely to be positive. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-10-94	I now give the floor to János Harghitai, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-06-10-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The more or less synchronised consistency that has been confirmed by the representatives of the pro-government and opposition groups so far, I will only increase it. We have a motion ahead of us that we need to discuss, but it's also in our interest. We are discussing this because, as a member of the European Union, Hungary has obviously been involved in the creation of EU Directive No 34 in 2013, and, given the legal nature of this directive, we are obliged to transpose the content of the directive into domestic law; this obligation is part of our activities. But it is also in our interest - as the lead speaker of the Fidesz and the Socialist Party and the Secretary of State have said - because many of the domestic businesses have been able to make simplified reports, but if these domestic businesses are still growing - and I hope they will grow - they will be able to prepare a simplified annual report; this will reduce their bureaucracy, and if their bureaucracy is reduced, they can reduce their costs to 1.2 billion balance sheet totals or 2.4 billion net revenues, as has been said several times. The details, after two fellow Members have mentioned to me the changes in the accounting of extraordinary items, the publication of dividends in the balance sheets and the rules on business and business value, which have so far given me the opportunity to tax avoidance, I will only mention and not explain these changes, and I will only refer to the changes made in the Act on Rules of Taxation and in the Accounting Act on the Implementation of Community Customs Code. So I also confirm from the KDNP Group that the transfer of the provisions of the directive to the Accounting Act is timely and supported by the Christian Democratic Group. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-10-96	I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2015-06-10-97	Mr President, Dear House, I wish very briefly to describe the position of Jobbik, because it is no coincidence that there will be no more serious debate on this issue in this House. The many European Union implementation proposals lie ahead of them, and we feel that the essential part of the debate has already taken place in another country, so we can actually debate the circumstances of the translation here in the Hungarian Parliament. In the package before us, there are the otherwise eligible criteria for a simplified report, so no one wants to cross it, but in essence we can see that there is a slight lack of Hungarian own ideas and ideas at package level that could further facilitate the life of Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises in a more dramatic way. To give just one example: due to the overtaxation of the Hungarian environment and its overgratification, Hungarian entrepreneurs are still facing very serious problems. If we take an example, in the case of the current HUF 105,000 wage weight, we see that there are no two thirds of its net net, the rest is taken away by taxes, social taxes, social contributions, pension contributions, health insurance contributions, labour market contributions. There is no problem with these, but the extent and determination of these, especially if we include the vocational training contribution, is such a burden and weight that the employee employed at the minimum wage then, say, if he wants to bring home 68-69 thousand forints, his employer is obliged to pay the state more than 66 thousand forints, so the employer's total costs will almost double that figure - even more than 134 thousand forints - than his employee receives. It also shows that if we manage to reduce overgratification and thus move in a direction that allows us to reduce costs, then this situation will no longer arise, and it will be felt that we can also achieve relief in Hungary by simplifying the administration system a little, reducing overgratification first. Obviously, it cannot be eliminated, but it is possible to start in the right direction with timely and reasonable ideas. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, according to the OECD's latest measurement, the fourth hardest-taxed economy is Hungary in this respect in relation to the average wage for two children in the case of Hungarians, and this not-so-honoring fourth place has come up after this model has already included an otherwise eligible government plan for a 1 percent reduction in personal income tax. To sum up, therefore, we must say that this huge administrative, bureaucratic mass - together with countless types of tax increases or new tax types in Hungary since the entry into force of the second Orbán government - has affected Hungarian workers, families, one- and two-hundred families, but also the entire economy at a level that causes serious economic and competitiveness disadvantages for Hungary as a whole. Thus, the part of the package in front of us that reduces unnecessary administrative burdens can clearly be supported by Jobbik's faction, and, obviously, in the future, our proposals and intentions will also point to the direction of reducing red tape in this extent by imposing unnecessary administrative burdens, and we will clearly get to the point of not only overtaxing small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, but also, as a result, the simple Hungarian worker will be able to take home as much of his own gross wages as possible, and this amount will be more and more close to the average of wages in Western Europe. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-10-98	Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate before us. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see a candidate. So I give the floor to the author, Mr Péter Banai Benő, State Secretary. [[13.30]]
u2015-06-10-99	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I am pleased to note that there is a consensus on this proposal as well, since all speakers have accepted that we have a fundamental interest in the transposition of the Community directive, and this transposition of a directive, in addition to being considered a legal harmonisation obligation, will reduce the administrative burden on the majority of Hungarian businesses. Therefore, I must highlight in the first place the positive motive of the comments that have been made. I think that the government did not have much room for manoeuvre in this regard to make new proposals. I must say to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát that, of course, in the debate on the directive, the Hungarian Government represented all the principles and interests that aimed at strengthening Hungarian businesses, when a decision was made, the directive was adopted by the Community forums, and then we can talk about only implementation. This is why it is difficult now to do what professional comments are made by various professional organisations. I have to say to Mr Józsa that there has also been a consultation with professional organisations in this regard, so the government has not only heard its voice in Brussels, but it has also been in a live relationship with domestic organisations. Finally, I have to say that not only have accounting issues been raised in the debate, but also tax claims. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát made proposals on taxation. What I can tell you is that the government operating after 2010 has taken steps to reduce taxes on work and on families. This is why the personal income tax system has been introduced, which is why the job protection action has been introduced, and next year's budget will move in this direction, when the key to personal income tax can be reduced by 1 percentage point, or when the impact of the job protection action on those employed in the agricultural sector has already taken place throughout the year. This is therefore not the subject of the present law, but I believe it is important for the Parliament to see the government's plans in this regard. As far as the proposal is concerned, I must again emphasise that it is a proposal for a reduction in administration. With all this in mind, I trust that, following this debate, the Honourable Parliament will support the Government's proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-10-100	Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. We now have a general debate on certain issues concerning the organisation of agricultural markets, on the draft legislation on producers' and interbranch organisations, pending closure. The submission was made in T/4854. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr György Czerván, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-06-10-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The orderly and proper functioning of the market is the cornerstone of a well-functioning economy and this claim is particularly valid for the agricultural product market. The orderly functioning of the market provides a predictable economic environment for producers, processors and traders alike. Stability enhances production planning, growth and development, and creates transparent and clean market processes, thereby reducing the proportion of the black economy. In order to maintain competitive agriculture, the European Union will promote the organised and orderly functioning of agricultural markets by regulatory means. In the context of the recent reform of the common agricultural policy, legislation on the common organisation of agricultural markets has changed on a number of points which, in order to ensure an efficient and competitive market organisation, has required revision, modification and addition of the general provisions of domestic agricultural market regulation. CXVIII of 2012 on interbranch organisations and certain aspects of agricultural market regulation, currently in force domestic legislation on the organisation of the markets in agricultural products. It was included in the law. The basis for this is 1234/2007. Council Regulation, which gave its place to grow on 1 January 201413. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). In the new EU Regulation, with further market orientation for the regulation of certain sectors, the self-regulation-based market measures of interbranch and producer organisations have become even more prominent, resulting in the strengthening of the role of these organisations in loosely regulated sectors. In addition, the regulation on the recognition and functioning of organisations has undergone a comprehensive renewal and a new, more efficient and coherent crisis management package has been included in the EU Regulation. The previous legal basis of the EU legislation has therefore changed significantly, and therefore the structure of the Hungarian law in force, and the changes in the references therein, would make it very difficult to apply the right law. In view of the scope and quantity of the necessary changes, a new law is justified, which will replace the current one as a whole. The proposal basically furthers the well-functioning elements of the previous regulation and provides a framework for the implementation of EU product market legislation in Hungary. The new law acts against the risks and abuses associated with commercial transactions. The elements of contract, payment deadline, reporting and competition law provide an appropriate framework for operators in each sector to operate more integrated and organised, while taking into account the uncertainty that is constantly present in agricultural production and reducing producers' risks related to commercial transactions and abuses. The explicit aim of the proposal is to prevent the total destruction of producers who are actually in difficulty due to weather and other natural causes, but the exemption of producers from contractual obligations is subject to strict conditions in order not to hinder the creation of transactions. The key issue for the development and competitiveness of the Hungarian agricultural and food economy is to increase the organisation of individual sectors. Therefore, taking into account the directions set out by the CAP reform, the Hungarian agricultural policy also has an increasingly important role to play in the sector's self-regulation, based on the principle of open membership, which is organised from the bottom-up. This self-regulation should be implemented by producer organisations and interbranch organisations and producer groups. In European agriculture, producer organisations are the basic building blocks of sound sectoral operation and the promotion of producers' interests. Producer groups and producer organisations should organise production and marketing, ensure a framework for joint market action and promote stable producer profitability. Producers who form producer organisations jointly market their products, thus becoming bargainingable, reducing their disadvantage to large-scale producers and buyers. Through the strengthening of producer organisations, the technical and technological standards of the sectors can be improved, the access to fresh markets can be facilitated, and the supply of the processing industry with a sufficient quality and quantity of domestic raw materials can be facilitated. They can also play an important role in the reorganisation of the domestic manufacturing industry, which is in line with our general objectives for rural development and food economic development. The bill sets out basic rules for the operation of producer organisations and basic procedural rules for their rights under the new Community legislation. [[13.40]] Interbranch organisations, which represent a higher degree of organisation, bring together operators in each sector, such as producers, processors and traders, vertically, with the primary aim of promoting the development of production and marketing of products and facilitating the flow of information between market participants, thereby increasing market transparency. Collaborating sectoral actors, creating a right to self-determination is an important and effective tool to reduce the vulnerability of agricultural production and to increase the organisation of production, processing and marketing. This will also significantly increase the predictability and stability of the functioning of the whole food chain. This also creates a favourable situation for consumers without distorting market and competition rules. With their actions, recognised interbranch organisations may facilitate the adaptation of supply to market needs, by collecting data and recording market price trends, produce forecasts, take quality improvement measures or even form recommended models of contracts. In addition, where they are considered representative for a particular product, i.e. covering most of the production, interbranch organisations and producer organisations may also initiate the extension of certain rules to non-member operators. The EU sectoral position differs from Hungarian practice in some cases, so the new law provides flexibility for the possibility for an interbranch organisation operating in a particular sector to represent, if necessary, products from other sectors and for an interbranch organisation to operate only in a certain part of a sector. The system of penalties for the recognition and operation of interbranch organisations will be simplified and competition conditions for interbranch organisations will be made more transparent. The new law contains the domestic implementation elements of the new European legislation replacing the quota system in the dairy sector, such as the mandatory contractual arrangement for raw milk sales. Based sector policy forecasts and decisions can only be made on the basis of appropriate data. In order to monitor market developments and provide up-to-date data, the new law lays down the framework for the functioning of agricultural databases, the test plant information system, the market price information system, the data provided by the recipients of agricultural support, the data provided for product estimation purposes and the databases on producer organisations and producer groups. In the event of exceptional market events such as Russian import bans, health risks or loss of consumer confidence, it is possible to implement rapid crisis management measures for both market players and consumers. The domestic implementing rules on the organisation of markets in fishery and aquaculture products are a novelty in the agricultural market regulation system. The new law also includes a number of other special market organisation measures that provide opportunities under EU rules. These include, for example, post-mortem certification of slaughter animals or detailed rules for reporting. Mr President, Dear Parliament, T/4854 is a modern, transparent legislation that has been renewed in all parts of the EU, adapted to EU legislation, while taking into account national specificities, and which is based on the experience of agricultural market regulation so far. Law No. 1. I ask that the bill be discussed and accepted by the Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-10-102	The mainnote speeches will now be followed, in which I will give the floor first to János Pócs, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-10-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, T/4854. Proposal No 13 of the European Parliament and of the Council on cultivation13. In line with Regulation No 1 of the EU Parliament and of the Council, and in line with the evolving directives of the common agricultural policy, it creates a new domestic legal background for important issues of product market regulation. Previous legislation on the organisation of product markets is CXXVIII of 2012 on interbranch organisations and certain aspects of agricultural market regulation. It's in law. It's the law of 1234/2007. It is based on Council Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 which replaced Regulation (EC) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on 1 January 201413. Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. This new regulation also requires a new regulatory basis in the domestic legal order. This is what the present proposal responds to. The draft law places greater emphasis on the development of rules for producer organisations, associations and interbranch organisations than previously. It contains important rules on payment deadlines for producers, processors and purchasers; contracts for the supply of agricultural crops, in particular cases of marketing of raw milk; certification obligations after slaughter for certain animals; and recognition and operation of interbranch organisations, producer organisations and producer groups. According to the bill, it is possible to extend the market acquisition measures of recognised producer organisations to operators not belonging to the organisation. This measure may be requested by the interbranch organisation and approved and ordered by the Minister for Agricultural Policy for a maximum period of three years. In such cases, the Minister may also determine a justified financial contribution for operators benefiting from extended market acquisition measures, but not joining the organisation, which should be used to carry out the tasks of the professional organisation. The proposal also provides for the possibility for sectoral operators not belonging to recognised interbranch organisations to be able to voluntarily accede to certain agreements of interbranch organisations. On the basis of the proposal, interbranch organisations may request the court to establish the unlawfulness of market disturbances, conduct or unfair commercial practices, or to prohibit the use of practices, and may represent its members before the court in matters falling within the scope of the statutes. These new rules properly transpose the EU directives into the domestic legal order and follow the right direction, with greater attention to supporting interbranch organisations' activities. In this spirit, I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect to support this bill. Mr. President, thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-10-104	I now give the floor to László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-06-10-105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, T/4854 on certain questions concerning the organisation of the markets in agricultural products, producer organisations and interbranch organisations. In line with the common agricultural policy guidelines, the Commission intends to support producer groups and producer organisations. In the light of the directions set out by the CAP reform, Hungarian agricultural policy also has an increasingly important role to play in sectoral and inter-branch self-regulation in certain sectors, based on the principle of open membership. In recent years, the government has worked very hard to ensure that legislation on the common organisation of agricultural markets serves the interests of those active in the sector. Reform of the common agricultural policy was important, but this calls for further steps to be taken to ensure that the market organisation is effective and competitive. The general provisions of the regulation should be reviewed and amended. The legislative elements on contracting, reporting and competition law should provide an appropriate framework for actors in each sector. [[13.50]] If the draft law is adopted, it shall extend its scope to agricultural, fishery and food products and their producers, processors and distributors, in particular producer organisations, associations and interbranch organisations consisting of those engaged in such activities. I consider it important that the draft law includes certain restrictions. For example, the rules on payment deadlines for producers, processors and buyers, which allow a period of 15 days or is mandatory in accordance with EU directives, and also lay down rules on contracts for the supply of agricultural crops in order to protect the interests of the contracting parties. The proposal includes: public databases should be operated for statistical purposes in order to organise the agricultural product markets on the basis of sound information and to fulfil the obligation to provide data to the Union. In the event of the adoption of the proposal, interbranch organisations may request the court, as Mr Secretary of State said before me, my fellow Member, János Pócs, to remove or prohibit certain offences. In accordance with EU directives, the proposal provides for the possibility for non-members of recognised interbranch organisations to join such an interbranch organisation. Overall, European experience has shown that by strengthening producer organisations, the technical and technological standards of the sectors can be improved, the access to fresh markets can be facilitated and the supply of the processing industry with appropriate domestic raw materials can be facilitated. With respect, I would like to suggest to my fellow Members that they support the bill and confirm it with their votes. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-10-106	I now give the floor to Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2015-06-10-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! This draft is not the amendment of the law in which we will have the sharpest debate with the government. I must say this in any way as a criticism, and we will try to remedy it in amendments that we are here on interpretation issues relating to the protection of the Contracting Parties... - and I will also try to improve confusing, ambiguous definitions, to clarify that we will have amendments in them, and I hope that they will be able to substantially improve the legislation. By the way, we found a number of legal and logical loopholes in there that I think might be worth reconsidering. This may be the result of the need for this amendment because of changes to the adoption of an EU regulation and the recent reform of the CAP, and there may have been some translation problems here. In any case, we're trying to fix these. Overall, we can, of course, support both the intention and the law itself, as this will certainly promote the objectives that the Secretary of State spoke about, as well as the pro-government authors, and it is very important to be able to respond to these changes in a timely manner as a Member State. So this is definitely positive, and we will be able to support this bill. I hope that you will really be able to deal with the few amendments that we are submitting to him with good intentions and constructively. I don't want to waste any more time. Mr President, thank you for this opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-10-108	Thank you. We have reached the end of the speech. I now give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény, on behalf of the MSZP, in a normal time frame.
u2015-06-10-109	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, As we have heard from the author's expozee and the lead speakers, we need to bring a new EU legislation into the domestic legal order, and therefore, not surprisingly, the MSZP fraction will, of course, support this bill. The EU legislation, which was the legal basis of the previous regulation, is significantly transformed by the new regulation, and neither the structure nor the changes in the references of the Hungarian law have allowed for proper application of the law, so the scope and quantity of the necessary changes justify the submission of this new law, which will practically replace the current law in its entirety. I would like to highlight a few points that are particularly good and welcome in relation to the law. The bill will also bring about consistency in procedural matters with the provisions of the Law on procedures relating to agricultural, agricultural and rural development and fisheries subsidies and other measures. We think that this is definitely a very welcome and positive thing. This bill also provides, as you said, for the mandatory content of the contract for the supply of agricultural crops, as you mentioned, and determines these, depending on whether it will be concluded before or after the harvest. For example, the draft legislation also includes national rules on the obligation to conclude contracts in the dairy sector or provides for the obligation to qualify after slaughter. We think that these are all regulations that will make it easier for agriculture and can also lead to more predictable, safer production. Therefore, as I said, we are moving an EU regulation into the domestic legal order, so our faction will, of course, support the law. Thank you. [[Imre Horváth applauds.]]
u2015-06-10-110	I'm asking if there's any further intention to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't think so. The debate is therefore closed. I'll ask the author if he'd like to comment. [[For signal:]] The floor is for Secretary of State György Czerván.
u2015-06-10-111	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to stall either. I am very pleased that there has not been a particularly big debate here, which is basically understandable, although it is a very important regulatory instrument. I thank you with respect for the support of the factions, and we look forward to the amendments, we will discuss it, we will discuss it. I trust that you will be able to secure this proposal when voting on your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-10-112	The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. We now have a general debate on the bill to amend certain laws relating to the production of grapes and wine until closure. The submission is T/4856. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I also give the floor to Mr György Czerván, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda.
u2015-06-10-113	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Domestic grape and wine production is an important sector of Hungarian agriculture. In addition to employment, the wine sector also plays an important role as landscaper and landscaper through the cultivation of plantations. The traditions of Hungarian grape and wine production are deeply rooted, we have a serious culture of production and wine consumption. The wine sector is very complex and has a wide range of regulations. Complex regulation, based on this administrative obligations, poses a major challenge for the players in the sector. The amendment of the wine law now provides an opportunity for further simplification of wine administration obligations that began in 2010. The amendment to the law will be followed by an amendment to the implementing regulations, where further targets for reducing administrative burdens will be met in detail. T/4856 amending certain laws relating to the production of grapes and wine. Legislative bill No. 1 also brings about a number of tangible changes in the daily lives of the wine-sector operators. One important change is expected from the proposals for amendments to ensure the efficient and rapid management of uncultivated wine grape plantations. The draft allows for compulsory slaughter in the event of plant health threats, particularly with regard to the dangerous spread of grape disease in golden jaundice. The current antidote for the disease is unknown and the focus should therefore be on prevention and effective prevention of its spread. If the crop authority finds that the plantation presents a risk to other plantations on the basis of the plant health status of the uneducated plantation, it may order that the plantation be slaughtered. This amendment is necessary because in 2012 the legislation on the settlement of uncultivated vineyards needs to be clarified on the basis of practical experience. With the amendment, our aim is to ensure that uncultivated plantations are dealt with quickly and effectively in the interests of cultivated plantations. The amendment of the wine law is also required by a change in the rules of the European Union on vine plantings. [[14.00]] The draft lays down the implementing rules of the Member States with regard to the planting permit system in force from 1 January 2016. In 2012, the Ministry of Agriculture, together with the other wine-producing Member States, was effective in combating the full liberalisation of vine plantings in the European Union's forums. As a result, in 2013 the European Union adopted the planting permit system, which will allow for restrictions on plantings by 2030, which is an important tool for maintaining the stability of the European Union's market in wine. The amendment of the wine law allows the holder of the right to switch the planting right issued until 31 December 2015 to a planting permit until 31 December 2020. This will give Hungary the longest possible time for producers to switch to the new system. Dear Parliament, The 2012 CCXIX on mountain villages. The draft Act contains in particular the implementing rules relating to the new planting rights regime. In addition, the draft also includes clarification of the procedure for adopting and amending mountain rules. The new village regulation has reached its goal, and the entire mountain community system has been renewed from the bottom up. In 2014, the National Council of Mountains received the recognition of interbranch organisations. The renewed mountain communities have become important players in the Hungarian wine sector. The Ministry of Agriculture continues to consider mountain organisations as important partners. The proposed amendment therefore contains only a minor adjustment and a technical amendment, which has been drawn up by the Ministry together with the actors in the sector on the basis of previous experience. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In recent years, both the world and the European Union have experienced very serious changes. These changes could not have avoided agriculture, including the wine sector. All actors in the sector need to make serious efforts to adapt to these changes in a competitive way. By amending the wine law, we continue to consider it appropriate to have a framework, simple, transparent regulation that allows us to follow and simplify rapid changes. I respectfully request the adoption of the draft by Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-10-114	Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Sándor Font, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-10-115	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a professional law, which we are discussing here, but I may also say that I do not think there will be much debate about it, which is usually decided unanimously by the factions, or there is very little time when further amendments are made in some technical procedural order, with a view to improving, pro-government or opposition representatives. As the Secretary of State said, this draft law was presented by consulting the professional organisation, HNT, in cooperation with it. As President of the sub-Committee on Wine and Wine, I have put this draft in place for the last meeting of our committee, and I have asked that, if any comments can be made by those who are represented by the profession, they do so. After all, in such a professional law, the government is usually open to any sensible, acceptable amendment. By the way, they indicated, and here I confirm to Mr State Secretary that these comments were included in the draft law, in which they were consulted, in consultation or in a debate. As we see its professional part, three or four technical issues will be clarified, and partly the future vision will be explained by the law on operations, obligations and forced cutting of uncultivated wine grape plantations. Here, however, many farmers are annoyed by the fact that uncultivated vineyards are transformed into infection stumps. Farmers with good cultivation behaviour in their environment can be extremely damaged by an infection stump nearby. Here we have to face a new type of disease that can reach our country as a result of heat, the golden jaundice spread by an intermediate insect, and unfortunately, that insect already lives in Hungary. That's how it got up to us through Slovenia, Italy. Last year, who observed the action of Nébih in Zala County, forced spray has already been ordered by the authorities, precisely to prevent this incurable infection from the grapes today through the intermediate carrier of the disease, through the extermination of the insect. Well, all these problems may also occur, but perhaps, in the case of uncultivated plantations, effective measures now may lead to the removal of such infectious stumps when this bill is adopted. The other big debate was that the EU has been tormented for four years because, in our opinion, on the basis of an unconsidered idea, the EU's administration wanted to release planting rights. To do this, it is important to know that vine production is one of the quota-bound production; there are few of these in the EU, but that is exactly what it is. For Hungary and all Member States, a specified production area can only be planted with grapes and produced. This quota, this commitment, was intended to be freed up by the EU and to make it a full free market. In this, we have seen an extremely high risk, which I can mention in the case of the protection of high quality, especially Tokaj. At the expense of the specialty and high quality, this would have led to a unified production of mass production and capitalised investment groups on the surface as much as possible. This is what we see in Chile, South Africa, Australia, where this type of production is made. We claim that European production is not like this. By specializing in family farmers, small vineyards, nooks and vineyards, we achieve the very good results that we now appreciate, thank God, not only in Hungary in the case of a nice wine, but also in international wine mustards, such as red, white and rosé. I always mention the category of natural sweet wines, since it is the unicuma of Tokaj, which may be used by foreigners to identify the entire Hungarian wine production. The issue of planting rights has led to a transitional decision. As a result of the proposal, as a result of our resistance, the system of planting rights remains, but the EU has provided for the conversion of planting rights to permits from January 2016, but we will continue to maintain the quota system until at least 2030. The intention remains to free the wine-growing market. This is in the interest of Hungary and many wine-growing countries, capitalised investment groups. This fight has been reappeared on the European Union's decision-makers' table. But one of the victories of this struggle is that the quota system, the system of the size of the vineyard that can be planted, is not dissolved. This entitlement shall be introduced by converting it into an authorisation into a more free use system. This will take place from 1 January 2016, and accordingly it will place responsibility and responsibility on mountain communities. And the second part of the draft clarifies the responsibilities of mountain communities as to what should be done by mountain judges, as interbranch organisations, to HNT, which complicates all this, how to conduct it in its application, to guide this whole change so that the registration system clearly ensures the right to property and a clean, transparent system of planting rights for everyone. [[14.10]] I think that even the three or four legislative amendments based on the experience accumulated over the years call for the promotion of the work of vine producers with the agreement of the profession. We believe that we are in a constant fight against administration, i.e. against administrative burdens, and this draft law also partly reduces administrative burdens in individual segments. This is usually the case where the authority considers that the administrative burden can no longer be reduced, because this risks the risk of production and control safety, so there is already too much risk that everyone will produce in a clean environment, and we can check this; those concerned see that the administrative burden is still so unnecessary that even if one leg was not there, the transparency and the clean production environment would remain. We are trying to take significant steps in this. It is not related to this draft law, but I would like to point out that a full amendment to the excise law has been launched within the framework of the Ministry of National Economy. One foot is also about grape wine brandy as an excise product, and within the framework of the cooperation we see a great chance that, as an excise product, wine and wine, the reduction of administrative burdens can be significant, especially for farmers who produce and market less than a thousand hectoes per year. I am not talking about my own idea, Austria, Germany, Italy has long distinguished producers over a thousand hectoes and under a thousand hectoes, and producers under a thousand hecto should only lead an extremely simplified administration. But, as I said, this bill also means reducing administrative burdens in some respects. Of course, we also propose to all the political groups in Parliament, my fellow Members, that they support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-10-116	I give the floor to Zsolt Legény, the lead speaker of the MSZP group.
u2015-06-10-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, As we have heard in the author's exposé, there is a technical amendment here in particular, but there are also a number of parts that we consider to be particularly welcome. This bill also contains amendments to three laws: on the one hand, the Law on Vine and Wine Management, on the other hand, the Law on Mountain Villages, and, on the third, the Law on the Protection of Trade Marks and Geographical Indications. The bill contains technical clarifications in the amendment part of the Vine and Wine Management Act, which will also help to reduce administrative burdens further. But, for example, as Mr Font pointed out, in order to ensure the efficient and rapid management of uncultivated wine grape plantations, it will allow for forced slaughter in the event of plant health threats if the crop authority finds that the plantation presents a risk to other plantations on the basis of its plant health status. Congressman Font has also mentioned that many farmers have been disturbed, pissed off and harmed by the fact that uncultivated wine-growing areas have infected their territories, which is why we believe that this part of the bill is particularly forward-looking. But, for example, the bill amends and clarifies the sanctions applicable to wine forgery, so that in the hands of the authority - how should I put it? - a dissuasive fine option. For example, the amendment of the Mountain Villages Act also includes rules on the new system of planting rights, as well as rules on the adoption and modification of mountain rules. We think that, as Mr Font said, this will not lead to a debate in this House. We will have one or two clarification proposals, which, of course, in the form of a legislative amendment proposal, I hope we will be able to submit to the House today, and we hope that both the wallet and the government can accept this. And, of course, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-10-118	I give the floor to László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-06-10-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In fact, Mr Secretary of State, as rapporteur, my fellow Member, Mr Font, as the lead speaker of Fidesz, said practically everything positive about the draft law. I can only confirm the opinions that my fellow Members have expressed in this regard. Very briefly: on the part of the KDNP fraction, we fully support the draft law and propose to my fellow Members the adoption of the draft law. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-06-10-120	I give the floor to Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group.
u2015-06-10-121	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Jobbik will also be able to support this proposal, so there will be no more serious debate between us. I also believe that the crucial part of the amendments that lies before us is forward-looking, and it is good that we have responded to these problems. The issue of the infection stump has been raised several times, and it has been pointed out from each faction that it is really a very useful, forward-looking thing if the authorities can act on time, even with the most severe sanctions, if necessary. I think that this problem has been pointed out to all of us by several producers for years, so we are really happy about it. And in the European Union, the lifting of the vine planting restriction was also an attempt to show that there really is a constant need to be on the lookout, and it is constantly apparent that capital interests are pushing Europe and the Member States not only on this issue, but also in all other areas, so it is worth continuing to seek contact with the other Member States in this regard, and in view of such a danger, we can negotiate to achieve it if we have, even by stalling, but we have really pushed out the danger, and I am very happy about it. What President Font said was that a comprehensive reflection of the excise law is under way. While not subject to the legislation we are discussing here, this is very positive. If there is any time to know when it is expected that it will come before the House, we would like to thank you, as everyone involved has long complained that the system has been completely over-grabbed, and especially for small and medium-sized producers, who are mainly concerned, because it is possible for a larger plant to employ professionals who are able to carry out administrative burdens, reduce and professionally, while this is often an unsolvable task for a small family business. It also does not belong closely to the law we are discussing here, but it would be good to have some sort of tidying up in the area of wine marketing at the government, because there is quite a bit of chaos. I have dissected this matter on a number of written questions, and I do not want to bring it up here and cut names, because it is not the subject of the present proposal, but it is clear that at government level, the various ministries are killing each other about wine marketing, and what internal tensions there are, which I would not be interested in if I did not see that this would indeed be at the expense of Hungarian wine and not aging its name, and not helping Hungarian wine to move forward on an international stage. After all, as has been said, we are doing really well here, as I understand it, Hungarian people consume Hungarian wine above 90%, at least as far as they know. If we don't include Italian tricks and pranks here, then it can be said that we consume Hungarian wine over 90 percent, which is a very good proportion. I wish this were the case for other foods or other products, I think that this country would be rid of a lot of problems. Like I said, so we support it. If I could still get an answer to this fruit wine problem, which I don't, but somewhere there's a problem that there's no way to deal with it, or if there's a solution to that. What I mean here is that it would be good to find the middle narrow field where wine counterfeiting is not yet embedded, but also the worldwide trend that these different fruit wines, ciders are spreading, and there could be an absolutely good market gap here in our country to see if it can be regulated in any way. Have you considered whether there is a solution that will not harm the Hungarian winemakers - this is not wanted by anyone, it is in our primary interest that Hungarian wine retains its leading role and does not give its place to any tricks. At the same time, I consider it a rather serious deficiency and misdemeanor that our country is now unable to take its role sufficiently from this global trend, while we are able to present quality products on the market. [[14.20]] So, as I said, we are in favour of the proposal, we will have a few amendments to it, but these will only contain technical clarifications. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-10-122	Thank you. I'm asking if the LMP faction wants to comment. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to the congressman.
u2015-06-10-123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Just to say that we are pleased that if there are professional proposals with neither a political mine nor anything else, we considered the motion to be particularly good, we believe it to be forward-looking. Obviously, as a representative of the opposition party, I must say that there is still work to be done in the sector, but overall, this proposal, we hope, will help the actors in the sector to continue their work, so we support the motion. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-10-124	Thank you. We're at the end of the lead speaker's round. I would like to point out that Mr Péter Kónya has withdrawn his preliminary statement. Thus, normal speeches may now take place. Mr Zsolt Legény applied for a speech. You have the floor.
u2015-06-10-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not want to add much to the word, but I would just like to draw attention to two parts of the bill, two parts that we think are particularly positive, and this is about the wine in Tokaj. On the one hand, the proposal clarifies and strengthens the rules on the storage of Tokaj wine. Under the new rules, wine products derived from the crops of other areas should be kept separate from wine products originating in the wine region of Tokaj, or this proposal, which lies before us, also clarifies the rules for the production of Szamorodni in Tokaj. We believe that, unfortunately, in recent years, wine production in Tokaj and marketing have sometimes suffered disadvantages or below the belt, and therefore we find it particularly welcome and good that the bill intends to formulate such a, we can say, more specific protection in the case of Tokaj wines. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-10-126	Thank you. If there is no further intention to speak, I will close the debate and give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr György Czerván.
u2015-06-10-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I can say the same thing as at the end of the previous item: thank you for your supporting comments. Looks like we're having a good day, never having a bigger debate. We look forward to the amendments. The other points raised by Mr Zoltán Magyar and some here on fruit wine, on wine marketing and on the subject of excise duty, I think that we will discuss it at another Agriculture Committee meeting or subcommittee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-06-10-128	Thank you. The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. Following up now on certain issues relating to the procedure relating to agricultural, agri-rural development and fisheries aid and other measures (Article XVII of 2007) General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. Sándor Font's independent motion is T/5039. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Font Sándor, the author of the item on the agenda.
u2015-06-10-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, This mysterious title actually implies that when farmers claim land-based aid, which can happen every year between May and 15 June, they can prove by what title and documents that they are users of the land they want to claim one of the EU's aids. It is well known that, for example, in the case of a sale, land use certification may be delayed by the authorities. All documents are not yet available. However, it is also well known that, in the case of the use of undivided common property, the customer, the farmer, has a contract which is not only entitled to use the land for his own undivided joint consideration, but also has a contract with another owner that he would like to cultivate the size of the land. They will not be registered directly, or possibly without their own fault, at the land office. There is already a problem with the application that, at the time of the application or at all, who lodges the claim on the ground, whether this land use is lawful or not, for example, whether the claimant is entitled to apply for aid. At all, two laws dealing with the issue of legitimate land use, let's say, one is the MVH procedural law, in which he should regulate himself in how he accepts these applications, who he considers to be a legitimate land user, and on what ground he can accept that a land user is, that he owns, that he is a tenant, and let me not list any additional titles. These items do not correspond to those listed in the Law of Procedure of the MVH, which was adopted before last year, since the Land Traffic Act, as a method of use, knows about half rental, part cultivation and favor land use, but these terms of use are not listed in the Law governing MVH. Well, these were the problematic issues and uncertain issues that led me to make my motion to bring the rights of use governed by the MVH Act of Procedure into line with the rights of use governed by the Land Traffic Act. This clearly means extending the rights of use. So it can be said that, before the adoption of this law, farmers could apply for land-based aid on fewer grounds, because they could only justify use on fewer grounds. In my proposal, I would like to extend this as set out in the Land Traffic Act. In doing so, they are entitled to apply for this aid in a rather wide range of areas listed in the proposal. What has always been delicate, and I've mentioned before, is the land use of undivided common property. Let us be honest, we have done a number of attempts to give the owner the strongest driver's license on the basis of the protection of private law, but the fact is that, in the case of an undivided joint, not only our share, but also another area, it was possible to justify the division of the territory in a very complicated way, by drawing drawings, and let me not list what was the procedural order in which it could be demonstrated that someone was still a legitimate user of the undivided common land. This usually created such administrative obstacles for the farmer who was actually farming, that in many cases he said that he was not worth it, that he could not carry through the administration system. Unfortunately, he could not have requested a source of money from the Union after a legitimately cultivated area. I wanted to clarify this issue by taking it as a general principle that those who have applied for land use and land-based support are considered to be legitimate land users until a counter-interested party has applied for this area. It is obvious that this will be the result of conciliation due to over-requisition or demand. But it can be clarified from now on who had the legal basis for the application. In the case of the undivided joint use of my proposal, I also tried to simplify legitimate, legitimate land use for close relatives. In many cases, we know precisely, especially for family farmers, that in the case of a spouse, a child, a husband, a wife, the estate, the farming is uniform, at the same time they may have a different name, but they do everything in a uniform way, and in many cases the application can be made instead of a family member, not precisely by the person who has the ownership registration. I have also tried to enforce these lifelike situations in this proposal. If we do our best, I would add that in the final provisions, my proposal would also include the order applied for the examination of the single applications submitted in the 15th year. [[14.30]] In other words, applicants who might not have been able to apply for aid in areas where they did not know that they could prove that the title of use would be used by them, extending this procedure to those areas, could make this correction until 15 June, and this could be done with the entry into force of the law for this year's procedure. I ask you to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-10-130	I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[György Czerván: Yes.]] The floor is for Secretary of State György Czerván.
u2015-06-10-131	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, When using area-related aid, the client submitting the application must provide evidence of the legality and factual existence of land use in a manner defined by law. Under the relevant Union provisions, the aid may be paid to the person who has the area in question. However, in the case of an over-claim or multiple claim, the establishment of legitimate land use for the Agricultural and Rural Development Office is an essential means of establishing the entitlements in order to establish the legality of the customers' land use in that area. The legal land use institution is linked to the verification of the use of area payments. Prior to 2009, an application for aid for direct area payments could be submitted by the farmer who had incurred the costs and risks of recovery in the area used. The introduction and application of the concept of legitimate land use as a condition of support in Hungary has been justified by an EU audit by the European Commission, so the concept of a legitimate land user has been included in the Hungarian aid legislation since 2009. According to EU requirements, Member States should ensure the existence of a relationship between the landowner and the applicant for direct payments and the parcel should be available to the claimant. However, as to the justification of this, a number of cases have arisen where the best-intentioned farmers have not been able to meet the requirements of the legislation because of any circumstances beyond them, but are therefore deprived of the possibility of obtaining the aid. According to the decision taken by the Supreme Court in 2012, shareholders can only have full unanimity over the land in which they own, and a majority decision on the basis of the previous ownership ratio cannot be considered lawful. On this basis, legislation was introduced at the statutory level from February 2013 that partners should first establish an agreement between themselves governing the rules of use, which requires unanimity, and only thereafter can they transfer the right to use, for example, to a third party. The so-called MVH procedural law on certain aspects of the procedure relating to agricultural, agri-rural development and fisheries subsidies and other measures 44. According to §2 of the Act, the customer is to be regarded as a legitimate user of the land indicated in his application until there is doubt about it or is supported by a document available under the control procedure conducted by the MVH. [[Erzsébet Schmuck will be replaced by Dezső Believing in the notary seat.]] Where there is a doubt as to the legality of the customer's land use, in particular where several customers have submitted area aid applications at the same time for the same land, the customers concerned shall be invited to agree on the MVH deadline. In the event of failure of the data reconciliation process or in the context of the verification, the customer shall demonstrate the legality of the land use at the request of the MVH. Experience gained in the application of practical law shows that the range of means of proof under the Law of Procedure of the MVH is far from ensuring a very significant range of customers, in particular for farmers in the undivided common-owned area, and that a number of documents and contracts are excluded from the list of laws, which, on the other hand, are included in the rules of the Land Traffic Act as a title for the transfer of rights of use. As Congressman Font said, such as a half pass, part-time cultivation, favor land use. Thanks to the compensation and share-expenditure processes, ownership is now in such an opaque chaotic state that, in many cases, investigative work and then serious legal preparations, such as legacy procedures, are required to reveal at all the person with whom the lease contract can be concluded. The amendment of the law tabled by President Sándor Font, Member, would allow proof of legitimate land use on the basis of a lease, half-lease, share-in, favoral land use or sub-lease contract, as well as an agreement on the order of use, as well as a legitimate land user, the trustee, the owner or the owner of the right of use. In addition, it would be possible to establish legitimate land use on the basis of an exchange of uses for seed producers in the Land Traffic Act. Finally, a partner or a third party who owns an undivided common-owned land in an area exceeding the ownership share is a landlord if the land use register is not registered for reasons other than his own fault and has a written agreement allowing the land to be used and the fact of use is confirmed by the management log he keeps can also be considered a legitimate land user. The reason for this is set out in EU rules. Two conditions are required for the provision above ground: a right from the owner and proof of the actual use of the land. In addition, taking into account the frequent occurrence among close relatives of farming on each other's land, or only one of the spouses applies for support, the close relative would be a legitimate land user in the cases listed. Dear Parliament, The proposed legislation would provide a reassuring way of dealing with life situations that currently make the life of the farming community miserable and can ensure that those affected can have access to the funds. This is also important because this year, because of the changes to the direct support system at EU level, it is already facing new challenges for farmers. In view of this, the government supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-10-132	Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. In this context, I give the floor first to Mr János Pócs.
u2015-06-10-133	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. The Chairman of the Committee and the Secretary of State also said that the amendment to the procedural law is important. I would also like to point out that this amendment is based on practical experience and will further refine the existing legislation. Proof of legitimate land use has always been one of the issues of concern, since in this area it is necessary to adapt at the same time to the diverse and often highly flexible personal structure of land users and to strict EU rules. In the previous cycle, we have already tried to resolve specific cases where there are difficulties in certifying legitimate land use and, therefore, in drawing on area payments. The solution at that time required the existence and presentation of various documents from farmers in special situations. Thus, those who have certified their legitimate land use rights by means of a land-use fund, an agreement on the founding of a family farm, a valid lease contract or other means of use could apply for their subsidies. These rules, although often helpful to previous problems, did not prove sufficiently detailed in practical application. This amendment would be a solution for those who have a lease, a half lease, a participating cultivation, a favour land use or a sub-lease agreement, and would also consider the trustee, the beneficial owner or the owner as a legitimate user of the land. [[14.40]] The Land Traffic Act also takes into account the exchange of uses for seed producers and seeks to assist users of undivided common-owned land. In particular, it is easier to increase the flexibility of legal land use certification rules in all these cases by automatically qualifying direct relatives as legitimate land users. The transitional provision of the proposal would make the rules applicable to aid applications already submitted in 2015. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support this proposal in any way, even with improvements compatible with the intention of the President. Mr President, thank you for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-10-134	I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2015-06-10-135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It seems that today is such a day that agricultural legislation is unanimously supported by all factions. I wish we had been that way about some of the previous proposals. I must say, in this way, that it is not true... - and thus, legally, it is certainly true that these facilitations, which are included in the legislation in the specific cases listed, will be true for applications submitted in 2015. But in practice this will not be true, because by 15 June, these farmers, who have not yet submitted applications for such problems, will have to remedy and submit them. There are five days until then, so I think that this is not the case in practice. It would have been good if you had thought of these problems first, even because they existed, we knew about these cases for at least a year, and the signals came in line not only to us, but also to you, and I forwarded them in the form of a written question or even here in Parliament in the form of a speech. So it would have been nice if we had responded to it first. Of course, the proposal is good and the Jobbik supports it. We're going to make an amendment to this, and I'm going to ask you to take it seriously. So the most important task now is, in addition to the fact that every faction has said and will say that it supports this legislation, so that in the five days available, we can let all those involved know that this amendment has been made, and that it will also be in force backwards. In this way, those who have so far been afraid that they may be punished more seriously or that they do not receive the aid for the areas concerned, and therefore have not submitted a single application for these areas, should do so, since this facilitation takes place in these specific cases. There's a lot of responsibility, I think, for the Chamber of Agriculture. I regret that the President of the Chamber of Agriculture is not present now, as he is not usually present in agricultural legislation - perhaps it should not have been a Member of Parliament, let us say, elected president, but this is really not the subject of this law, so let us skip through it. But there is a real responsibility for the agricultural chamber, the MVH, the wallet, in such cases, so I ask you to speed up the flow of information with all possible means, millions of forints depend on this for the farmers concerned, and I am really sorry that we are so late with this legislation. Overall, of course, we support it and hope that these amendments will take place on time and substance in the future. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-06-10-136	Dear Parliament, We have arrived at the end of the keynote speeches... - and I see that there is a late one, but I'll give it to you... Okay, he asked for a normal word, Sallai R. Benedict, and I'll give you the floor there. Then we will now have the regular speeches; first I will give the floor to Mr Zsolt Legény.
u2015-06-10-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As the author put it, this clever title, the title of the legislative amendment proposal, basically means how and in what way land use is justified. In this regard, we see that, when using area payments, the client lodging the application must in some way demonstrate this particular land-use legality and, under EU provisions, the aid may be paid to the person who actually has the area in question. However, in the case of an over-claim or multiple claim, the MVH is an indispensable means of establishing the entitlements to determine the legality of the customers' land use in a given area. In substance, this amendment should be regarded as a legitimate land user for the land indicated in the application, until there is doubt about it, or is supported by a document available under the control procedure conducted by the MVH. If there is doubt as to the legality of the customer's land use, for example, if several customers apply for area aid at the same time for the same land, then the customers concerned shall be invited to agree data by setting the MVH deadline, and, in the event of failure of the data reconciliation process or in the context of the verification, the customer shall prove the legality of the land use at the request of the MVH. Experience gained in the application of practical law shows that the MVH cannot provide a very significant range of means of proof under the procedural law with the possibility of justification for a very significant range of customers. This is what this bill seeks to remedy. And we think that it is very good, and we think that Mr Font, as rapporteur, is very right to say that this bill would allow proof of legitimate land use in the case of a lease, a half lease, a participating cultivation, a favour land use or a sub-lease contract, or a legitimate land user, the trustee, the beneficial owner or the right to use and the owner. Or, for example, the bill would partially settle the situation of undivided land with problems. It is absolutely not criticism to Mr Font, but rather to the government, that, although we consider the proposal to be particularly good and professionally eligible, we do not understand why the Member brought it to the House in the form of an individual motion and why the Government was not the author of this legislation or through the Government the Ministry of Agriculture. We don't know what the Ministry of Agriculture did then. Finally, there is an important question as to where the same Ministry was at the time when the Deputy Vice-President of the MVH appointed during the government cycle 2010-14 and the Metropolitan Public Prosecutor's Office was indicting 84 other people. According to the charge, former leaders in criminal organisations have illegally applied for EU area funding, and this has caused the budget damage of almost HUF 1.5 billion in two years. Therefore, in the direction of the Ministry, if it is possible to put it that way, we would put a kind of reproof - we know that otherwise there will be no consequences, but I have to say this at the same time. But, as I said, the bill itself is otherwise technically justified, and even contains specific provisions that would make it easier for farmers in the future, in the near future and in the further future. Therefore, since this is a technically appropriate bill, we will, of course, support the bill. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-06-10-138	I now give the floor to Congressman Sallai R. Benedict of the LMP.
u2015-06-10-139	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Forgive me for the unnecessary word, but I also wanted to express our opinion in order to express my agreement and my pleasure that this draft legislation has been put before Parliament. In my own opinion, who has dealt with this undivided community a great deal in the last year, even a small rescue package for this government, as the burning problem of the undivided common immeasurability seems to be a bit resolved. After all, many of our fellow farmers have simply - not quite a few of them, I am talking about thousands - failed to obtain support in the last two years, three years, in 2013, there was still an facilitation because these regulations did not allow it. The EU's obligations have hindered the use of area payments, even in own-owned land, which has been used for decades, but which has not been legally measured. In practice, this legislation provides for the possibility for farmers, among larger owners, to apply in 2012 for an agreement to be measured or not, to begin the conciliation process, which will provide for the possibility of reaching an agreement in the course of subsequent surveys. So, overall, the fact that this whole process has started and, in the case of undivided commons, the right to land use can be justified by the justification of ownership or the right to use, is, in my view, a substantial help to a very, very large number of farmers. And even if it's a little late, but it's still a very big opportunity, especially for small owners who don't have a larger joint property of 1/1 property, they have access to these grants. [[14.50]] On the whole, we welcome the presentation, and it doesn't matter to us whether the government has thought of it or the chairman of the committee, whichever one of them, it is certainly welcome that he is here in front of Parliament, and we, for our part, are sure to support this and welcome his entry into force. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-10-140	I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the bill. [[No signal.]] I do not see a candidate, so the debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Font Sándor, the rapporteur, to respond to what has been said.
u2015-06-10-141	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for your support and criticism, which sometimes referred to delays, but let me come back here to say that too much haste could not be done in this matter. Mr Secretary of State even quoted me, not the turn when the Supreme Court said in 2012 that the use of undivided common property cannot be based on the majority ownership ratio, its vote, but must have the unanimous opinion of all owners of the decision. In English: so far, if there were ten people in an undivided common area and in the proportions of the area, say 60, 50 percent plus 1 vote, say, 4 owners, and they decided to lease the entire undivided joint property, all of it to a certain public limited company, then they could do so. But in this undivided joint ownership, there was one owner - it was a specific case, it became the supreme court case - there was also one owner who was always in the minority, he owned his own property, he was a private owner, and he wanted to cultivate the area himself. The shock was that the majority decided to rent the whole thing, so the part owned by it was also leased to a public limited company, so they couldn't do their own share in the undivided joint, because they remained in a minority in the vote. Until the Supreme Court, the point was - I referred to it with one sentence - that property is the most sacred thing that exists, and the tenant and all other privileges can only come after that, and the strictest decision was made by the Supreme Court, a unanimous decision should be taken if we rent it or if we do it individually, so it is unanimous. As a result, there was an urgent situation for the legislator, for the Ministry, how to deal with the issue of undivided commons, and then came one of the solutions - there was a lot of debate on this, of course we saw the difficulty of the problem - that it had to be made by a clear decision with drawing, notification, letter notification, and questioning the opinion of the parties concerned. Those who do not respond are considered to have consented, but those who indicated that they had an opinion on this, there it was necessary to clarify where the border would be cut, which corner would be cut, and what map drawing should be displayed in the used areas. It's been a year, and we ran into 2014. In 2014, the Land Traffic Act, the Law that moved the large system of land affairs came into force, we argued about it for two years before, and after that it was found that the Land Traffic Act was not consistent with the Law governing the MVH at all stages, and that was when the derogation in the terms of use came to light, and now we are here in 2015 when we tried to settle this. I understand the legitimate criticism of why not sooner, why not sooner. Of course, the farmer feels that his problem could be solved so easily. Of course, he does not need to see a series of preparatory phases in which a legislative proposal must be submitted in the light of the drafting of legislation, coherence, international regulation and all kinds of constraints. Unfortunately, there are delays in legislation by the time it finally gets to Parliament's environment. I would add that this year's rush was the same way that we knew the problem, as Sallai R. Benedictek and several fellow Members mentioned, what difficulties it has caused mainly in the case of the undivided commons, but we do feel that this is, in parallel with the fact that a much larger number of undivided commons will be spread from this year onwards, the decision was taken in two districts per county and started. Here it was possible to do so only after a complicated preparation; orthophoto system, I do not specify what it is possible to start dispersing the undivided commons, but in the meantime the undivided commons began to be disbanded. As intensively as the government has never begun, as we are doing now, we are trying to bring in the claim for land-based subsidies for the undivided commons, based on everyday logic. At the same time, we want to help farmers. I would also like to say that yes, 15 June is very close, but on the one hand, those who have already submitted, we can say that they have filed their claim in an irregular manner in accordance with the current legislation, but they have been submitted with a title which is now being introduced by the law, then they will be accepted with automaticism, and those who have not yet submitted it, but know that due to the broadened powers they can still modify their claim, here the FM and the National Chamber of Agriculture have called their attention to the expectation that such a law is expected to come into Parliament, so tell farmers who have this type of problem to prepare for it, because if the legislation can catch up with you - and now we are there to catch up with it - then they should immediately initiate the amendment. So, in principle, the villagers who do their jobs with honor, we trust in them, and the clients who have had this type of problem warned them, there must be a place where they should be aware that they should be on their guard now and do so, otherwise unfortunately, they will only be able to enforce it next year, but thank God, from then on they will be able to enforce it. Thank you again for your support. Thank you for your attention, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-06-10-142	The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. Next up is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. A separate motion by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary T/5033. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The opening speeches will now take place, which will be presented by two authors within a total period of 30 minutes. First of all, I give the floor to Mr János Fuzik, Slovak national minority advocate, the author of the item on the agenda, who will present and translate the first sentences of his expozee in his mother tongue. You have the floor.
u2015-06-10-143	Thank you very much. Vážen. Pan predseda! Vážené Národné zhromaždenie! Pozdravujem Vás vo svojom slovenskom materinskom jazyku v mene parlamentného V.boru pre národnosti v Maåarsku a prájem všetkåm nám úspesné rokovanie! Mr President, Dear Parliament, In my Slovak mother tongue, I welcome you on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary, and I wish you all an effective meeting. The last meeting of the spring session of the Parliament started the day before yesterday by commemorating the one-year existence of the parliamentary representative institution and committee in the speech before the agenda of my spokeswoman, Yaroslava Hartyányi. He said, among other things, that the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary met 28 times over the past year for nearly 60 hours, which would have been the third place in the list of parliamentary bodies that would have consulted for the most time. Our Commission has taken 21 decisions and submitted 28 motions, of which four were separate motions and aimed at amending fundamental laws. Why am I quoting these data again? In addition to the joy of the work done, most of all, in order to contrast the results achieved with the circumstances and working conditions in which they were born. This is part of what our last independent committee motion on Parliament's 2012 XXXVI. amending Act T/5033. It bears a number of papers and the general debate of which has begun. As the first paragraph of our bill, we propose that the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. The fourth part of the Act, which provides for the remuneration of Members of Parliament, should apply not only Chapters 36, 37 and 39 of this Act to the minority advocates, but also the provisions of Chapter 38 concerning independent Members. This is not the case now, and you may not believe it, but according to the letter of the law, ethnic advocates and their colleagues do not have the right to use office in the House of the Parliament. [[15.00]] According to the law, these three dozen people could still be wandering the corridors and floors of the White House. Luckily, thanks to the wise insight of the Parliamentary Office and the initial bumps, the ethnic advocates also received their offices. However, the rule is only a rule, and the Act on Parliament has now set an insurmountable limit for us. The national minority advocates did not have a chance to cover the expenditure related to the operation of the assigned offices, since they are provided by Chapter 38 of the Act, which does not apply to us. The same has been done over the past year to ensure the expenditure associated with the activities of representatives, and in this case to avoid it. However, spending on ethnic provocative activities is not negligible in the case of ethnic communities living in sporadic areas of most of the country, not to mention the mother and other international relations that we have acquired and managed in our previous work. My fellow speaker will talk about all this in more detail. After what has been said, I am sure that the honourable Members of Parliament do not assume that a year of ethnic spokespersons are only bitter about what benefits - otherwise justified and necessary - have been lost. We did enter Parliament a year ago with a rolled-up sleeve, but not in order to hold our hands or pawn in other people's pockets. Many years of work, even more decades of work, have been behind us in the struggle for the survival of our nationalities, and we have really appreciated the long-awaited opportunity to participate in the work of the Parliament - according to the wording of the Fundamental Law. And as those who lack all experience do, we immediately jumped into the deep water. We got lucky. With the strong support of the Parliament, we managed to amend the fundamental laws on the rights of nationalities and electoral procedure in a month so that they could fulfil their mission even more during the preparation and conduct of the October elections of the national minority self-government. Then came the summer break, or should have come. Eight of the 13 national minority advocates continued to perform our national minority self-government presidential duties until the 12th of October elections, while others held high positions in the same place from May without pay or fees, since we are talking about benefits in connection with our Commission legislative proposal. Not as a complaint, but as a fact, I recall those double-job months, not forgetting that many Members of Parliament also served as mayors, sub-Mayors or other local governments in parallel, without remuneration. At the beginning of autumn, ethnic advocates began intensively dealing with money - but not with their own benefits. Our Commission prepared systematically for the negotiation of the 2015 Budget Act, thanks to which the government and Parliament have been able to increase the central budget subsidies, which have been frozen for many years, by HUF 2 billion, i.e. by 50 percent, mainly in the local government and institutional area. Sometime around this time, at the beginning of December, we were informed that the political groups of the Parliament were discussing the amendment of the Parliament Act in view of the Members' allowances. Although the minority advocates were not involved in these negotiations, my colleague, Dr. Tamás Turgyán, has developed a short version of the amendment to the Parliamentary Act, which includes the extension of the previously mentioned chapter 38 to nationalism advocates. However, we soon faced the fact that, on the one hand, our amendment was late and, on the other hand, its implementation would, of course, have resulted in extra costs, so it is not relevant. At the same time, we have been confirmed that our needs are well-founded and the issue needs to be resolved in the spring. Supported unanimously by the Judicial Committee and then by T/2337. The Parliament's plenary session of 15 December 2014 adopted a proposal amending the law by way of a derogation from the Rules of the House with 97 percent support. This has shown us that, with the bill-modifying proposal of the Justice Committee, which did not include the draft minority advocates, but had a positive impact on our expectations in several of its points, this legislative amendment proposal will therefore be implemented. Despite the fact that we were aware of the increasing press noises, the collision of the so-called free motorway stickers of the M0 motorway and Members on the fuel card, we were surprised that the final vote of the bill was postponed at the Parliament's next-day meeting on 16 December, at the request of the Fidesz Group. According to our information, the negotiations between the political groups were resumed during the early part of the spring session of the Parliament to amend the Act on Parliament. Since no agreement was reached, the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary unanimously decided to submit a bill on the basis of Article 6 (1) of the Fundamental Law on the Parliament of 2012 XXXVI of 2012 as a separate Commission motion. The amendment of the law. This so-called "short version" was included by extending the provisions of Chapter 38 concerning independent representatives to national minority advocates. Before we presented our initiative, we asked for the support of all the political groups of Parliament that we had been promised - we thank you for that. We also informed independent Members of Parliament of our intention. Perhaps the consensus and consensus between the factions formed around our committee's motion has led to the possibility of incorporating the bill tabled by the Judicial Committee in December and slightly modified in our Commission's motion. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities considered the new situation and found that we could increase the chances of our intention to change the law and improve our working conditions with the new submission. In addition, the most powerful conflict in December was removed from the point where the fuel card could also be used to purchase a motorway sticker. We believe that by continuing our legislative initiative in this direction, we can improve the work and operating conditions of the Parliament, the political groups and Members. Therefore, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary decided, by unanimous vote, that it had been earlier, T/4885. Revocation of the legislative initiative submitted to the European Parliament and the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly it presents a new, extended bill entitled 'amendment of law'. This is what lies in front of this House now, T/5033. We ask for the support of the Honourable Parliament with the number of papers and the acceptance of this. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-06-10-144	I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Turgyán, the other author of the item on the agenda, the Armenian ethnic advocate. [[15.10]]
u2015-06-10-145	Dear House, Mr. President. Fellow Members! Allow me to welcome you both in my native language, so I wish you all good luck and good work. It was just a year ago that the registered nationalities in Hungary could get their representatives into the Hungarian Parliament, despite the fact that this question has been in the hands of the governments, politicians and legislators of the country for twenty years. In the last twenty years, several versions have been revealed, and we have tried to take an example of our neighbours, such as Romania, where, by the way, for twenty years, a full parliamentary representative has represented the nationalities, or even Slovakia, where they actually have no representation or representation. Looking beyond national borders, it seems evident that there is a place for national representatives in the two Chambers of Parliaments. Until then, in 2012, during half the regency of the second Fidesz government, a two-thirds Parliamentary Act was passed, which included the possibility for registered nationalities living in Hungary to be represented in the work of the legislation. You may know this, but it is necessary to mention that the law has given us two possibilities: such as the possibility of sending a full parliamentary representation or a minority spokesperson to the Parliament. In addition to the significant facilitation of electoral rules, a full minority parliamentary representative could have been sent to the legislation by up to two or three nationalities because of their number of souls. This would have further deepened the division between nationalities and national authorities in this respect. So, thanks to the law and by the will of the electorate, spokespersons came to the Hungarian Parliament. I've had a dilemma ever since that spokesperson's been a congressman or something. For us, the situation is clear, we represent our own nationality in the Hungarian Parliament. Allow me to quote the 2012 XXXVI. The nationalities living in Hungary have the right to be represented in Parliament in order to preserve their identity, maintain their language and culture, and ensure their participation in our common affairs; stressing the joint responsibility of all Members of Parliament for the service of Hungary, the Hungarian nation and the public good; ensuring the integrity of the exercise of the rights of their representatives and the proper functioning of the National Assembly in public matters; promoting the cooperation of the Parliament and the Government in European Union matters. In our opinion, in addition to the fact that he cannot vote in plenary, he cannot be elected as an official of Parliament, he cannot interpel or speak on any subject, the other representatives may have all of their powers. And in relation to his work, he is subject to the same expectations as any other fellow Member; let us think of those quoted from the preamble. In order to carry out responsible work, I must also mention the existence of an operational and supply framework. We have no other purpose to use these frameworks than any other fellow Member, including, of course, independent Members. The question has been drawn up in the spokesperson committee for quite some time, and we have tried to bring our intentions forward in an appropriate form, as my fellow Member Fuzik has explained in detail. I would like to point out that the additional cost of the amendment is or may mean an increase in the amount allocated to this purpose in Parliament's budget by 5%. I wish to stress that the amount is not for the comfort of the advocates, but for the interests of the nationalities living in Hungary. This bill is what the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary has formulated and put forward. A year ago, when the Speaker of the House, the Prime Minister and the President of the Republic welcomed us to meet each other, we were advised by each of them that, after being new, we should be able to shape the fate of our own and our successors, to tread the path for ourselves. Well, that's what we're doing right now. Our proposal was made a long time ago and was included in the legislative system. Thus, of course, it came before the House Committee, where, to my knowledge, by consensus, it was agreed that Ogytv should be linked to this bill for practical reasons, in order to simplify the process, since the competence of the Committee of Nationalities on this subject is obvious. 80, 89, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 118 and 145. The Commission also amends some of its provisions. In view of the aims of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, it has, of course, undertaken to present the bill in order to be well understood. Let's look at the proposal in detail. In general, it can be stated that the amendments listed and detailed below do not impose any additional burden on the budget. Their aim is to adapt the use and use of individual allowances within the existing framework to the practical needs, if you will. Our proposal 2. Pursuant to Article 4 of the Act, the Member of Parliament must declare to the Speaker of Parliament his membership of the Regional Development Council and his post as President and Vice-President. Our proposal 3. The provisions of Section 5 of the Act on the use of the fuel card will be explained. The Member of Parliament shall be entitled to use a non-transferable fuel card. The amount that can be used with a fuel card varies depending on the distance of the Member's residence from Budapest or, in the case of a parliamentary representative elected in a single constituency, the size of the constituency where he was elected depends on the size of the constituency. In order to allow all Members to use the fuel card to the fullest extent and in line with their travel habits and needs, the provision allows them to purchase not only fuel but also, in the spirit of sustainable development and emphasising the importance of public transport, local transport tickets and rents. The amount to be used by Members with the fuel card shall not change. Our proposal is 4. The aim is to facilitate office rental. In order to enable a Member of Parliament to carry out his work in the most appropriate place for the performance of his/her representative's activities, taking into account all aspects, such as the accessibility of voters, the provision allows him/her not to be redesigned even if he/she is not an office in respect of his/her original function. Our proposal is 5. Article 4 of the Act provides for technical clarification, which allows, on the one hand, that, in the event that the Member waives the lease of the representative's office for the benefit of his group, the framework available for office rental is automatically transferred to the group's operational framework. On the other hand, the amendment also allows Members to use the amount of other allowances due to the representative but not used for the month in question in the following month. In addition, the provision contains sanctions for exceeding the different allocations. Our proposal is 6. § 9 of the proposal and Article 9 of the proposal In accordance with the proposal contained in paragraph (c) of paragraph (c) of this Article, the amendment precludes the possibility of using property owned or managed by the Group, either by the representative or by his transferred rights, to provide office placements. Article 7 This section is a technical rule which aims to ensure that the remnants of the various frameworks that the political groups can use for their operation can be used throughout the cycle. Dear Parliament, Based on what you just said, I would ask you to support our proposal and to make a decision on your conscience. Thank you very much.
u2015-06-10-146	Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. In this context, I give the floor first to Imre Vas, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-06-10-147	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, In the previous term, the National Assembly adopted the XXXVI in 2012. Law on Parliament. I highlight three main elements of this provision. [[15.20]] On the one hand, it allowed us to choose national representatives or ethnic advocates in 2014. On the other hand, Parliamentary representatives made the work full-time, so that the parliamentary representative could not be mayor, deputy mayor, municipal representative since the municipal elections held on 12 October last year, and this was accompanied by a virtually halving of the number of Members of Parliament. The bill submitted by the committee of nationalities is based on the experience gained since the inaugural session, on which I would highlight four points. Firstly, advocates will also be entitled to remuneration according to the status of independent representatives. Here in front of me, spokespersons have told me about the problems they have faced over the past year. The other issue is the fuel card provided to Members for the task, which will allow them to purchase not only fuel, but also tickets and rents for local transport, so that the representative, if he does not have a car or can not maintain a car, can also use his fuel card for public transport, so that he can travel accordingly. The third point is office use. So far, only property registered as an office could be rented by the representative or advocate. Then, for example, if the property is classified as an apartment, it can be used as a representative office; otherwise, as with lawyers, this was already regulated in a similar manner in the Law on Lawyers. In addition, it is governed by the law that property owned or managed by a party cannot be rented by the representative or his faction. The fourth point, which concerns rural representatives, who have so far been entitled to rent a flat of between 35 and 50 square meters for them by the Parliament, is abolished here, both the lower and the upper limit. It is true of all four points that these abolitions are only carried out with a restriction that there is no increase in the framework necessary for the performance of Members' work by just one forint. Thank you for listening. Please support the adoption of the bill. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2015-06-10-148	I now give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-06-10-149	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly The provisions of the Act concerning the remuneration of Members of Parliament and the conditions for the operation of the political groups entered into force on 6 May 2014 with the establishment of a new Parliament. When drawing up the Act on Parliament, the legislator's aim was to create a full-time representativeship, i.e. to ensure that Members of Parliament, except for a few exceptions, deal only with parliamentary representatives, legislative and related activities. The present T/5033. The purpose of the amendment is to make the arrangements for the allowances of Members of Parliament more rational, based on the experience accumulated since the Parliament's inaugural meeting. It should be pointed out that the bill submitted by the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary does not touch on the fees of Members of Parliament. With the adoption of the bill, details would be amended that would allow, for example, the fuel card to be used by Members in public transport, leaving the current amount allowed intact. The amendment also simplifies the rules on the rental of representatives' offices and the use of housing. In addition, the bill sets out further technical rules for the use of the various financial frameworks that may be used by the representatives' allowances or political groups. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill sets out rules for the use of the same financial framework as independent representatives for national minority advocates and makes it clear that the provisions on maintaining the negotiating order should also apply to advocates. According to the bill, the Member of Parliament must report to the Speaker of Parliament his membership of the Regional Development Council and his position as Chairman and Vice-President of the Regional Development Council, since in this case there is no reason to maintain a conflict of interest. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Member of Parliament shall be entitled to use a non-transferable fuel card. The amount that can be used with a fuel card varies depending on the distance of the Member's residence from Budapest or, in the case of a parliamentary representative elected in a single constituency, the size of the constituency where he was elected depends on the size of the constituency. In order to allow all Members to use the fuel card to the fullest extent and in line with their travel habits and needs, the bill would allow the Member to purchase not only fuel in the future, but also to switch local transport tickets and rents in order to emphasize the importance of public transport. I stress that the amount that Members can use with the fuel card does not change. The bill allows that in the case of office spaces which may be rented by a Member of Parliament, it is not necessary to reclassify the property if it does not qualify as an office for its original purpose. The bill also allows that, if the Member waives the lease of the representative office for the benefit of the Group, the framework available for office rentals will automatically be transferred to the operational framework of the Group of Representatives. Finally, the bill would also allow the Member to use the allocations for other benefits for which he is entitled, but has not been used for the month in question, in the following month. In addition, the bill contains sanctions for exceeding different allocations. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill excludes the possibility of using property owned or managed by the Party to secure office placements, either by the Member or through his transferred rights. The bill also provides that unused remnants of the various frameworks which the groups of representatives may use for their operation may be used throughout the cycle. The bill repeals the restriction on the size of the dwelling, given that, under the financial limit, it is unnecessary to set a limit on the size of the residential property. The bill allows, on the one hand, the rental of residential property of less than 35 square meters and, on the other hand, for example, for a large family representative to rent more than 50 square meters of real estate. This would only be limited to the exhaustion of the framework provided for this purpose. I stress that the budget for renting residential property also remains unchanged. Ladies and Gentlemen, On this basis, please support the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. T/5033. Bill No. 1. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[15.30]]
u2015-06-10-150	I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Bárándy, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-06-10-151	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear tableds, I'm going to comment on this bill in a slightly different mood than the comments I've made so far. For in any way my fellow Members who spoke before me have tried to deny this and envelop it in some other robe, this proposal, my fellow Members, is about extra money and extra opportunities. That's the thing. The proposals to facilitate the work of ethnic advocates, as Mr János Fuzik said, would have been supported by us. We agreed with this to the maximum extent, for example, with the possibility of using offices, as we have already supported proposals from the Committee of Hungarian Nationalities, or even extended the possibilities of nationalities in any way, increased the budgetary envelope available to them and the rest. This proposal, I say it again, would have been supported, and this is what it looked like until the original proposal was withdrawn and added what was practically a covert Fidesz-KDNP proposal. I think that this proposal is unacceptable for a number of reasons. First, in my view, it's against the rules. It contains a number of provisions which do not in any way apply to ethnic advocates, the committee of Hungarian nationalities, only and exclusively to parliamentary factions and parliamentary representatives. Just because there is a part of it that applies to the advocates, I think it does not yet make it possible in the full law to propose, otherwise, a number of other provisions. If that were the case, then it would be virtually enough, say, to make one brief comment in a long-budget law, which applies to advocates, and from then on, that law may contain anything. The part that applies to you, of course, is absolutely house-to-house, but I don't think the other part is. That's the first problem. The second is that those who have submitted, but most of all I would not highlight, but those who are actually behind the proposal, did not understand the people at the end of last year, the people in December last year, who said precisely on this proposal, that as long as people are deprived while there are starving children in the country, Members cannot vote for rules that provide a lighter life for themselves. [[Dr. Répássy, Róbert: Only when the MSZP was majority.]] Ladies and gentlemen, We understand. That's why we don't support it. Indeed, in the first round, the proposal seemed to be supported by the MSZP, and we do not support that proposal precisely because you were obliged to withdraw it. The third reason why this proposal is unacceptable is because, in our view, the political parties behind it, Fidesz-KDNP, Jobbik and LMP have practically agreed secretly on this proposal, but we did not have the guts to take this proposal with their own name. They did so by pushing forward the minority advocates, the committee of nationalities, obviously - and not only obviously - because, I think, this has clearly come out of today's debate - by offering a certain deal. In particular, they will support extra money, if and if they are willing to submit this proposal, to be given as a novelty to the advocates. I think that was very elegantly said by Mr János Fuzik, in Hungarian, that it was a condition of Fidesz's support that the proposal submitted in December was also proposed by the committee of nationalities. I just assumed that, now in the debate, I think it was clearly on the table and it turned out. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what I can say is that blackmail is not a nice thing. Fidesz is used to this - welcome to the club. But I also do not think it is right for people, in their own interests, to resist such blackmail. I don't know if Mr Fuzik said it, but I wrote to myself that the President of the Republic, Prime Minister and Speaker of the House, suggested that the path be trampled. Yeah, I agree. Do this. In fact, make the practice better. But I would ask you not to take the worst part of that. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to ask what, let's say, the ethnic advocates or the committee of Hungarian nationalities have to do with the rules under which parties can spend their group money. What does the advocates have to do with whether Members of Parliament can be members of regional development councils, presidents and vice-presidents? And I would also like to ask my fellow Members, because it is not written anywhere in the explanatory memorandum, and obviously this is a proposal from you, why you are making this position compatible now. Why do you provide your parliamentary representatives with extra shields, extra jobs, extra money? Because that is what this is about, fellow Members. And it is about how your parliamentary representatives will be able to disposal over the allocation of EU funds. So far, this has not been made possible by the law, and now, with this proposal, you want to make this possible, which is what you want to create. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to turn to my better fellow Members and some quotes and ask them whether they still agree with their Vice-President, the Vice-President of Jobbik, when he said in this proposal in December that it is an amazing, unacceptable proposal. Since I have been a Member since 2010, in fact, every year there has been some kind of trick about how to increase the allowances of representatives, whether with loopholes or crafts, as it does now, when the envelope does not seem to increase, but in fact by increasing the scope of use for a framework that is essentially large as the fuel card framework, we can talk about increasing and increasing. It is unacceptable that, while family support, for example, is not even a follower of inflation, the representatives' benefits are increasing year after year in one way or another. * Then I would like to continue, perhaps two or three more quotes are worth the speech of the President of Novák at that time, just for what reason, towards your faction: * In contrast, instead of remedying this, this proposal will create a new way of finding a job as a politician, by giving the Members of Parliament any other membership, office or post in the regional development councils in the future, which has been prohibited so far. This can lead to unacceptable and obviously serious financial benefits, such as a presidential office. and one more, let me read you a shorter one. It is therefore unacceptable, for example, the way in which the explanatory statement is put forward. For example, if a large family representative considers it necessary to rent more than 50 square meters of real estate, then this should not be an obstacle in the future. I do not know, my fellow Members, whether the opinions of their fellow Member Novák are now being shared, then, in that case, they did not speak up and finally did not support the adoption of this proposal and were therefore withdrawn with the agreement of, among others, Jobbik and other parties. [[15.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, In the end, I would not waste any more words on this proposal, but let me make two comments. One is that I would very much like it if the pro-government representatives didn't put something else in the spotlight, and they didn't use something else when they wanted to get some legislation passed, but they took responsibility for it by their own names and presented the bill. That would be fair, that would be obvious. We don't support this, so we didn't sign it or sign it. Secondly, I would like to ask ethnic advocates to submit, if possible, proposals on nationalities to Parliament in the future, and not from anyone else. This, we know, is from someone else, because it was already on the Parliament's table once. I could even imagine that you would come up with a proposal about something other than nationalities. But we know this proposal literally. This was before the House in December. [[Gergely Farkas: This wasn't in front of the House, and you know it!]] to present the Judicial Committee. [[Gergely Farkas: It wasn't that, it was another one!]] You were here in front of this House, and you have been withdrawn, my honourable fellow Member. [[Gergely Farkas: No, it wasn't. You know that.]] It was here, exactly the same provisions were here. The second is that if national minority advocates really and truly present legislative proposals in the future for the sake of nationalities, they will continue to be supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party's faction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds. Dr. Vas Imre: You didn't get a big round of applause.]]
u2015-06-10-152	I am asking the Jobbik Group if there is a speaker. [[Gergely Wolf reporting.]] Congressman Gergely Farkas says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-10-153	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We must start by saying that we are essentially talking about extending the rights and opportunities of national minority advocates, which we can support, as we indicated in advance to them, and we agree with them and, of course, with this part of the bill, and also with the rest of the bill. There's only one thing we don't agree with. As a response, I would like to say to my fellow Member, Gergely Bárándy, that we do agree with the words of President Novak that we do not consider dilution of conflicts of interest prohibitions in the current proposal acceptable. In order to allow Members to hold positions in the Regional Development Council, we do not agree. There is, however, an amendment in this regard. I trust that this will be accepted by the House, and in this case we can support the entire bill. The grave error on the part of Gergely Barándy - and the mistake of the matter - may not even be correct here, because I think you know it - is that you have said false sentences that this is about the same bill as before us in December. It's a mistake, and you know it. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: How is it different?]] [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: How is it different?]] My colleague, Gergely Bárándy. (Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What difference does it make?) It is different in a number of things, including in the point that in December the Members could be entitled to purchase motorway stickers, for example, at the expense of their petrol card. For example, this point is not included. And there are a few other points that we could not agree with at the time, nor does it appear in this bill. I believe that this can be traced in a clear way. I therefore ask you to amend what you have said several times, and it is not factually true that we are talking about the same bill. At the same time, this bill makes very important things reasonable, logical. It is no coincidence, for example, that we would like to support the good amendment, the part of this law which states that it will be prohibited to rent a party. And either way, Congressman Gergely Bárándy didn't tell you about this, but it really hurts you. Let's talk about this a little bit awkward for you. In recent months, it has been you who have tried to take serious steps to try to finance your heavily indebted party in such a way that, from the framework of its representatives, it is against the burden of hiring offices in your own country. Now this bill does forbid it. It forbids Members to rent offices in this way, and even the faction cannot hire non-partisans. So let's get this straight. And I would also like you to speak openly about this, that you are in pain with this amendment, that is the clarification of the law, because it has not been clear so far. Now this proposal makes it clear and thus eliminates a form of illicit party financing. There are several logical rationalisations in this bill. I do not think that, for example, it would be against anyone that the 35- and 50-square-square-square-square-meter rent limit is abolished. The framework does not change, this is a very important aspect. In many cases, we have bumped into the problem of finding real estate within such a tight framework, and this option even allows us to rent rent rents at a cheaper rate than before in an outer district, thanks to the abolition of these square meters. Some of these logical, reasonable points could be said, because the amendment proposal, which does not increase the framework - and this is a very important part of the matter - is something that I think you agree with, but you cannot say this for political reasons. Overall, I must stress once again that we are in favour of extending the rules and opportunities for nationalities, and we are also in favour of rationalising some frameworks, with no increase in the framework. We are particularly pleased that the possibility of prohibited party financing will be banned from now on, and this is clarified by the law. I would also like to emphasise once again that we would like to ask for an exception to the conflict of interest in the position of the Council for regional development, and we would also like to call for the support of the law. But since there is an amending proposal on this point, I trust that it will be adopted, and in this way we can support this proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-06-10-154	I'm asking if there's gonna be a comment from the LMP. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't think so. This is the end of the speaker's speech. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Répássy Robert.
u2015-06-10-155	Mr President, first of all, I would like to announce that I do not wish to comment as Secretary of State, because the Government has not taken a position on the matter of the law, but that I have applied for contributions from its representatives.
u2015-06-10-156	Then the two-minute guys will come first. I therefore give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey.
u2015-06-10-157	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I must reject what our colleague Gergely Bárándy said. In particular, Fidesz-KDNP would have blackmailed the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary or any of its members in any way. That obviously didn't happen. It is also important to note that the bill submitted by the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary does not touch on the fees of Members of Parliament. The amount available to Members shall not change in any way. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-06-10-158	Thank you. Congressman Robert Répássy now has the floor.
u2015-06-10-159	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Once again, I would like to confirm that the Government has not discussed the proposal on the subject. In general, the government does not take a position on the rules governing the functioning of Parliament. Therefore, as a Member, I would like to say to you that anyone who came from the Moon or who was not a Member of Parliament before 2010 must have shed tears from the eyes of Gergely Bárándy and the sentences that compared child hunger with the allowances of his representatives; perhaps they assume that when they were here in the majority of Parliament, the allocation of Members of Parliament must have been different. Well, House, perhaps it is just the two of us in this room who have taken part in the debate on the last law governing the status of Members, before the parliamentary law in the period 2006-2010. At the time, a certain István Göndör, who was a representative of the Hungarian Socialist Party's Parliamentary Assembly, presented the rules on the status and fees of Members of Parliament in a motion of his own, with an unaccounted reimbursement of accommodation costs, and an income of more than HUF 1 million. [[15.50]] These were evidence of the social sensitivity of the Hungarian Socialist Party at that time. So what I can tell you is that the hypocritical statement that Gergely Bárándy made here is outrageous, so that you can calmly assess the attitude of the MSZP to this law. So when they could, when they were on the government, they didn't look like this, but about 20-30 percent more unaccounted for income from the Members of Parliament. This has been changed by the parliamentary law, and this has been changed by the fact that the Members of Parliament no longer have any unaccounted income, but only has a taxed income, and there are benefits in kind for Members of Parliament. They receive a petrol card as a natural benefit, and in the case of their accommodation, only the Office of Parliament enters into the lease agreement for their apartment. So at the time when the MSZP was sitting here in the majority of the Parliament, there were very different rules for Members of Parliament, so it was very right in 2012 that the Parliament changed these rules. So I also ask the national minority committee to accept Gergely Bárándy's criticism of MSZP as a moderate reality criticism, and, of course, those who have been here in Parliament before, we know exactly what our previous benefits were. Members of Parliament, by the way, perceive the difference between current benefits. Their working conditions have improved significantly for Members of Parliament, so their working conditions have improved significantly, but their income has not improved at all, but rather has decreased compared to the previous period. Of course, the working conditions that have been given to the Members of Parliament so far will only be given to the minority advocates in the future by giving them the same infrastructure allowance. So, fellow Members, do not take the opinion of the MSZP seriously in this matter for a minute. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-10-160	I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy.
u2015-06-10-161	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry to say this, but there's been a lot of untruths going on here in the Parliament for the last few minutes. First of all, Mr. Secretary, I don't know what you're talking about when you're talking about payments over a million forints. Such a law was never in force before the Hungarian Parliament, and believe me that it would not please him that I was indeed a member of that committee - there were many such committees, but some of which I was a member - which was intended to prepare remunerations for the Members of Parliament, would not be pleased if I gathered up the proposals from Fidesz and KDNP representatives at that time on the remuneration of their representatives. What is certain, however, is that you have succeeded in achieving that the Parliament of 200 today costs taxpayers significantly more than the Parliament of 400 people. Today, the functioning of the 200-member parliament is significantly more money-spent in the budget than the functioning of the nearly 400-member parliament. Now, that's what you've managed to achieve in terms of cost savings. Congratulations, Mr. Secretary. So I think you should stick to it when you make comments like that. The way in which you give benefits to Members, by the way, is a trick. I think it is one thing that shows how much expenditure this country has on the functioning of Parliament and the remuneration of its Members, if they look at the Parliamentary budget, which, I repeat, is more than it was in our period, with a size of substantially, half the number of Members. What I am saying to my better fellow Member: you know, I believe that this is a good attempt by you to hurt us. You know, it's never been different before. It wasn't any different. [[Gergely Farkas: But you want to.]] We didn't hire one uncooperative. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: But you wanted it.]] The Office of Parliament has not seen the possibility of renting a single party on the basis of the current legislation. So tell me, what kind of change does it hurt us? ! [[Gergely Farkas intervenes.]] What? Tell me, please, my fellow Member. I've never had one before, and I won't have one again. That's the thing. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] In other words, nothing will change for us, and you will try to explain this to us in vain, and you will try not to support this proposal. These are facts that should be denied, anyone who wants to see these data can ask the Parliament's Office. The other, Congressman, will you help me to know that besides the fact that you can't buy a freeway sticker with a petrol card, what other changes are there compared to December? Its main points are, by the way, [[Gergely Farkas: You just said it was the same thing.]] It is very interesting, I was quoting the speech of my fellow Member, Mr President Novák, and it is interesting that he was talking about the provisions that are in it today. The fact that a gas card is not a freeway sticker today, but, say, a BKV pass may be a change. But in addition, making regional membership of the Council compatible was included in this, too. The fact that the possibility of renting a flat should develop, to say the least, that a larger apartment could be rented, was included in this, too. The fact that the fraction frames can be regrouped; that the residual value could be transferred to the next cycle was included in this, too. Where's the big difference, Congressman, that you're talking about? [[Gergely Farkas: You said it was the same thing.]] Oh, it's the same - he's complaining that it's not 100 percent, it's only 90 percent the same. I admit, Congressman, I am amending my previous speech, not 100% the same, only 90 percent the same. And obviously, according to my fellow Member Vejkey, it is also an absolute realistic opportunity that when the minority advocates and the committee of nationalities submitted their own proposal, they decided to do so on their own merits: oh, I withdraw and even put in what was not accepted in December. Congressman, let's not take each other for granted. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Vas Imre: Wasn't there a big round of applause?]]
u2015-06-10-162	I now give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi in a two-minute time frame.
u2015-06-10-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. For me, I really didn't want to comment, but it is outrageous how I listen to Gergely Bárándy's full-blown speeches. Yes, Congressman, you're talking about blackmail. The reason you don't want to support this bill is because you wanted to force him out of blackmail to fund your party headquarters with public money. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: It hasn't happened before, it won't happen again.]] Yes, it is important for us, where appropriate, to keep in touch with the voters, so that if we rent an office, that office should not be paid nominally, but those offices should be in places where voters can easily find us and easily come into this office. To just tell you my own example, the 17th. in the district there is such an area, the Pesti Road, which on Pest road only has business premises almost. So it was not possible to rent an office there so that the voters could go there calmly when they went home, come in and keep in touch with, say, the representatives of Jobbik Hungary Movement, because these premises were not registered as offices on the property pages, but as business premises. And yes, it really doesn't matter what's on the deed, it's gonna be a very good change, it's what we use it for. And we're gonna use this for office purposes. I'm going to use it for office purposes so that I can keep in touch with the electorate if necessary. It's important to us. You would have gone to the headquarters of the MSZP, I do not know what kind of relationship you would have had with the electorate there, because I do not think that, where appropriate, Article XVII. Anyone from the district would have come to you at the MSZP headquarters. So I suggest to you, too, that if you do not wish to continue that journey, although you can continue from me, where you are at the moment and would like to talk to your constituents, then you will also take advantage of the opportunity to say that, in accordance with Article XVII of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, They can open an office in the district, and they don't just want to take the money you could use to rent the office. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause in the ranks of Jobbik and the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-10-164	I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[For signal:]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to János Fuzik, the Slovak ethnic advocate, who wishes to respond to what has been said.
u2015-06-10-165	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I thank the honourable Parliament, the honourable Members, who, in their opinion, have honoured our bill. Obviously, the opinions must be divided into two groups, and I would like to reply in particular to Mr Gergely Bárándy, a socialist Member. [[16.00]] You are a law-abiding man, I am not, but I do not understand the suggestion that we would have tabled this bill illegally in some way, since Article 6 (1) of the Fundamental Law, to which we refer in the submission, determines that law can be initiated by the President of the Republic, the Government, the Parliamentary Committee and the Members of Parliament. The Committee of Hungarian Nationalities is the Committee of Parliament, so I believe that you have questioned one of our constitutional rights, as we said before. The other is a more difficult thing, so I was shocked that we would have been exposed to some kind of blackmail, and I would have referred to it in my speech. I didn't refer to it, I couldn't refer to it, because that wouldn't have been true, of course, something like that didn't happen. I said that when the situation changed so that we could expand our original proposal, the short version, then our committee considered the consequences, what it meant for our chances. We saw this unanimously then, we considered it to increase our chances, and we were even convinced, as I said specifically, that we would also serve the Parliament, the Members and the political groups, if we continued the legislative process that we started in this direction. However, with great respect to the Judicial Committee, as Mr Vas Imre mentioned in the general debate in December, the Judicial Committee unanimously supported the motion that was tabled. That motion has changed somewhat since then, since Article 1 §a was not included at the time. This is about extending Chapter 38 or the regulation for independent Members to include minority advocates, which was an important request. Of course, I have also studied the material of the general debate in the Parliamentary Diary, I have indeed met with the speech of Mr President Novák, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, and not even a better-looking Member, István Szávay, but not a single socialist Member. I was convinced that, in fact, the Socialist Group was fully in agreement with and in agreement with this motion. During our recent conciliation meeting, someone told us that the representatives of nationalities could be pleased that they did not have the right to vote, because they were not at the forefront of party and political battles. We are not happy that we do not have the right to vote, but we do not seem to be able to avoid fighting, but I think we are here to truly represent the interests of our nationalities. How can we do that if we can't even represent ourselves? It was also raised whether this could be a nationality item at all, since it is a question of the remuneration of ethnic advocates and not of the whole of nationalities. I believe that if the nationalities of Hungary have achieved that they have representation in the House of the country, in the National Assembly, then it does not matter what conditions these ethnic advocates are working under, whether they are discriminated against. If they do not know this either in some form - and it is not always easy - to fight and achieve it, then it is more difficult to achieve other goals, including the full-fledged parliamentary representation for the members of the national parliament, which, of course, we have set ourselves before us and for which we will obviously work. So let us tread our own path, it is obvious that this path is not always easy, but I believe that we have done it correctly and fairly, and indeed in the hope and belief that we have also supported the work of the Parliament. Thank you to the parties and factions that support our motion; we hope that it will indeed be a legislative amendment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-10-166	I now give the floor to the Armenian ethnic advocate Tamás Turgyán, who also wants to respond to what has been said.
u2015-06-10-167	Thank you very much, Mr President, and allow me to thank you for your opinion. Of course, I would also like to quote Mr Gergely Bárándy, from whom I would like to quote a sentence, which will be emblematic to me, and let us not look at each other as idiots, fellow Members. Let's start from this and get back to this. Whether this proposal was made by us or not was house-ruled is roughly the dilemma of a half-full glass and a half-empty glass. It partly applies to us, partly not, it can be debated on this, but this cannot really affect our resolution. I would like to point out to the honourable Members of this Parliament that in the Committee on the Nationalities of the Hungarian Parliament, the 13 spokespersons represent practically 15 percent of the country's population in some way. This is by no means a negligible part of the country's population, and horizontal and vertical sections of our lives, of the country's life, could be made. I trust that this also nuances Mr President's opinion on the competence of the spokespersons. And also, if you say, let me give you my own example, you shake the family tree a little, and you look around in the early part of the family, you will find quite interesting things, and you will find the idea that, indeed, there are ancestors and ancestors of the competence of 13 nationalities here. I trust that this is a bit of a nuance to your position on the competence of the advocates. Once again, I thank you all very much for your attitude, and I trust that everyone will make a decision on this matter according to their own conscience. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-06-10-168	Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 tomorrow. This brings us to the end of the discussion of our agendas. We now have the speeches after the agenda, of which there are two. First of all, Mr Sallai R. Benedek came forward after the agenda with the title 'Designation of People's Culture'. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-10-169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm completely touched, I don't think you've ever listened to so many of my post-op speeches in Parliament. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] And that's why I'm twice touched. I am signing my speech to my fellow Member, János Pócs, because I was touched by my awe and falsely blushing smiles the other day, and Mr.János Pócs asked my government questions about me and about my humble political diary. I was moved by this kind consideration, gesture, with which I was somewhat overestimated, that my diary entries were brought before the House, and I wanted to remember this. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Mostly because I like jasmine people very much, and I appreciate the Jasmine Fidesz that they sent their finest, smartest representative here (Delight in Jobbik's ranks). And as a result, I've seen one small mistake. Which is that, unfortunately, you've misunderstood a little bit what I've written, and I thought with fatherly kindness that I'd come here to help you, and I'd read two simple folklore definitions to see if you'd understand it better next time. I must be honest with you that sometimes I put some irony and a little sarcasm into my sense of humor, and you probably don't know these, Congressman, so I looked at the lexicon to see how I could define these literary styles as quickly as possible, so that I could find them and see if I could get a comment. So this irony used in my diary is a mode of communication in which the meaning contained in the report, i.e., if any, is overwritten by the meaning contained in the method of communication. Irony is used in an unusual context, verbal pronunciation, or other, or even non-verbal gestures, as I have applied. As described in the Internet knowledge library, Wikipedia: the word irony is of ancient Greek origin, meaning pretending, gardening, questioning ignorance; that is, an abstract noun created by the expression of the person asking ignorance, which, according to these words, was not well known to my fellow Member Pócs, even though he was a preferred rhetorical instrument of his renowned predecessor, Socrates. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] back in the day, and that's why I thought you might know him. [[16.10]] In fact, the ironic report does not necessarily give a self-evident, sometimes tragic, sometimes humorous report to the original communication. According to American philosopher Richard Rorty, the use of ironic thinking, however, helps to preserve our ability to freedom and renewal. The source of ridiculousness is irony, which was a means of making myself an agricultural oligarch, and it did not come down to that, unfortunately, to the Member. I would like to apologise to the representative of the Jasmine, of whom I myself am a great admirer for his excellent speeches. In my writing, however, there was judgment and condemnation behind the apparent praise, which was exposed by the context to the understanding reader, who, in this case, did not belong to my fellow Member. [[Deterioration in the benches of Jobbik.]] It was also associated with some sarcasm, which, not to deny, is the sarcastic, hostile style of literary instruments. As in the case at hand, it is often accompanied by irony. Irony, therefore, means that the literal meaning of the text and its actual, speaking meaning are contrary - so I called myself an agricultural oligarch with my 45 hectares. And the sarcasm, that the speaker's intention was to mock someone or something - that was the government communication of the Ministry of Agriculture. Without a sense of style - or for other intellectual or emotional reasons - both irony and sarcasm can be misunderstood, and therefore the use of emoticons in writing is fortunate, as I may have done. The Member does not know the punctuation very well either, so I would like to say that his typical example is the colon, the use of parentheses, which is used to indicate that we might use ironic styles. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] My dear fellow Jászságság, one of my favourite Fidesz Members, who symbolizes Fidesz well for me, I rushed out in this speech to help him interpret the sentences he quoted. The meaning of the sentences he quoted was irony, without sarcasm, so that he could understand:. Wake up, Hungarian! These bastards are stealing the country! By attacking me, they are trying to cover up that their land policy to help billionaires is a sham, while the Hungarian countryside is being depopulated!!"I trust that with this speech I have helped the Socrates of Jászság to understand the future text, and I am here to tell you that I would be honored to keep track of my work and political diary in the future, which I thank you for. All I would like to say in the minutes is that I have given some of my speech in ironic form. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2015-06-10-170	Mr Répássy Róbert wishes to respond to the agenda.
u2015-06-10-171	Honourable Congressman, Unfortunately, I've been listening to your comments, your comments after the agenda, so allow me to comment in a few words. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: A little irony!]] Honourable Congressman, You're in more trouble than making jokes here at the Parliament meeting. It is not a very straightforward character to address a speech to a Member of Parliament who is not present and to insult him several times. [[Morai and interventions from the opposition benches: There is a meeting! He's not at work!]] Honourable Congressman, I think that if you have something to say to the Member, you can obviously do that, because what you have said here obviously was not a public announcement on your part, but you have a personal dispute with the Member. Which, by the way, is okay with you having a personal debate in public, but it would be more appropriate for you to say so when the congressman is here. On the other hand, you could have used your speech after the agenda for what I referred to as, well, how shall I put it, that in the last few days you have had several reasons to explain, to explain certain matters. Perhaps here at the Parliament's meeting, as there have been some tough, serious criticisms about you, I think that you could have done so here after the agenda, to tell us about them, if we had listened to you. Thank you so much for listening. [[Sallai R. Benedek: Thank you for your valuable thoughts too!]]
u2015-06-10-172	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar for his speech after the agenda:. The smaller family pig farms live their final days? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-06-10-173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Despite the government's success communication, the domestic pig sector is experiencing a lot of difficulties. To make it clear to agricultural management that there are problems in this sector, all they have to do is listen to the people in it, the workers in it every day. But since they usually don't have the will to do so, I have come to their aid and I will try to do so by reading here, in this time frame, a complaint addressed to me by a small family pig farm. Mr. Congressman! I'm looking for you with something very serious, very important to us. Our family has been engaged in agriculture for two decades, we have some land - ploughing, forest - but the family's livelihood comes from pig farming. That's what makes up the lion's share of my work as an ancestor. Unfortunately, as an ancestor, we find that there is no basis for reality in the texts spoken by the government. We and smaller producers like us often cannot even decide whether to cry or laugh at these statements. If we want to deliver the animals locally, they will take it from us for 295 HUF/kilograms, this will be compensated, which will bring the take-over price to approximately 310 HUF. It is so deplorable that there is almost a loss of maintenance, no wonder that many people are forced to stop keeping pigs. Of course, I understand those who keep thousands of animals on a large scale and do not care about our fate, because they are profitable with all kinds of support and additional benefits. However, I believe that responsible decision-makers should also pay attention to smaller family farms. In our area we have the Pápa Meat Factory, which has been saved from total bankruptcy by taxpayers' forints, but still pays for 30 working days for the pig taken over. I ask which store - whether for feed or for its own food - the buyer can enter by buying the goods and then pay in 30 days. I guess there's no other purpose here than to use it, roll our money for 30 days. I just want to know how to do that at all. The papals, on the basis of a rating, set the price in several categories. At the top, the live weight starts at 330 HUF/kg, but here they pay in carcass weight. So since they qualify, the price here does not come out much more than if they were taken away at the above mentioned compensation price of 295 forints. Of course, you try to hold those few forints, even at the cost of not putting the money in your pocket, they don't transfer them until 30 days later. Life, however, complicates the situation: recently, the managing lady called from Pope, who indicated that the weight limit of 150 kilograms had been lowered to 130 kilograms. This decision is unacceptable and unethical a few days before the release of the animals. This change of 20 kilograms also knocked out the fuse because the animals were taken from us to Pope and measured there. Digital measurement doesn't include the seller, often doesn't even look at the ear number. If you are considered overweight by one kilo, you will only be paid by 225 forints per kilogram. So, the top of the brazen thing they're doing to us! All the paperwork, regulations, bureaucracy, the purpose of the debauchery can be nothing but to destroy and subtract small farmers. . All we ask is to work, to prevail, to survive. In spite of our complaints to the MVH, the NAK and the Fidesz Parliamentary Representative of the region, we have received no substantive reply. This is not just our case and our problem, because the purchase price itself is outrageous. Around the 2000s, the general price was 400 HUF/kilogram, which was 15 years ago. Of course, since then the price of food, feed, and all other prices has been constantly increasing, but the consumer price of meat does not decrease despite the fact that they offer us such an unspeakably low price for pork. Again, it is a joke that they are unable to protect the Hungarian market in any way. I know there is a Union and we have signed many wrong agreements, but I am sure that if other countries could do this, we should also find a way out for our own country's sake. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would ask the honourable Minister to take the necessary steps without delay to resolve the problem of the family mentioned above and the many of his fellows. The situation, as you may have heard, is untenable, and despite the success of communication, domestic pigs are indeed close to the end. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2015-06-10-174	Dear fellow Members, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. This House will resume its session at 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 4:18 p.m.]]
