u2015-11-23-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 23rd day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that László Földi and Ádám Mirkóczki will be taking part in this meeting. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Today we start our work with speeches before the agenda. The questions will then take place from noon to 2:30 p.m., and then about 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m., and then we will continue our work with a political debate from 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. on reducing the increasing level of corruption and the accountability of corrupted politicians. Finally, we will conclude the session of the Parliament with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-23-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, At this moment, bidding is taking place across the country for public land. Currently, while we are sitting here, in several rural cities, the Fidesz will privatize our common property, the Hungarian land. However, land is a common asset that needs to satisfy not only a few people's desire to make a profit, but also the whole of the national community and the survival of future generations. The government is burning this fortune in less than 60 days, and they're not even willing to tell us what they need the money for. Land grabbing, in other words, is not an isolated domestic phenomenon, but is part of a global problem. The preservation of land, drinking water and the maintenance of food production capacity as resources become scarce is now a matter of national security, becoming more and more strategic. While the government considers it necessary to have significant public ownership in the energy sector, it does not feel this way in the land, and without food Hungary is as safe as without energy. Land-privatisation is also very dangerous because, due to the missed area payment scheme, the land is the target of speculation investments everywhere. For this reason, the land auction across the country is supposed to be bought by Fidesz and foreign speculators to sell in 20 years, who knows how many times it will cost. Of course, the ground robbery under the government of Fidesz is not a new phenomenon, only its form has changed. With public land leases, Fidesz has helped farmers and keepers who are actually farming since 2011 but also its clientele. This is what we saw in Cajász, Bábormegyer, Babocsa and many other places. In the past, only artificial nails and gas mechanics who saw production land in film or while travelling received hundreds of hectares of land and pastures. The government didn't hesitate to redistribute land leases to destroy hundreds of people's companies and use the state land to fight the political gang war instead of the rural development goals. Land exploitation is also contrary to national interest because it further strengthens the depopulation of the countryside and the inability of local communities. By robbing the land, most rural farmers will have no chance of self-existence, either public works or invincible debt traps, if they want to keep the land they farm on. Not so slowly will the result be that the land barons will be standing in the countryside with huge lands, without workers, because everyone from small settlements will migrate to the capital or even more to London, Berlin. This process has already started in the last five years, and it will only accelerate. The average age of farmers is increasing, and with the concentration of land, the rural population is rapidly declining. As long as you are fighting gang wars, the population density of seven Hungarian regions is steadily decreasing. Political corruption and shortsightedness have been poisoning the sector for 25 years, causing further and further disasters for businesses, individuals and ultimately the whole country. And you may be taking the final blow to the countryside and to the Hungarian people. CHAPTER XXI It will be about food and drinking water, and these basic articles are already of strategic importance. And if that is the case, and there is evidence of this, states should directly maintain the possibility of intervention in food production in order to ensure the production of the food that is absolutely necessary for the population, as well as the highest possible employment in disadvantaged regions. The state could create conditions in its own lands to ensure this. You're short-sighted. Everything is subject to their short-term interests, the country has been torn apart to little rich and more and more poor, vulnerable people, and they are throwing the entire Hungarian countryside into a feudal fate. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-23-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State, Mr Bitay Márton Örs wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-23-3	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, allow me to welcome you to your nameday greeting. Happy birthday. The Congresswoman has said a number of things, which, I think, does not hold up at all, or at least it is good that we are talking about it for perhaps a long time. One of his claims, if I listened to what he said, was that the entire ground privatization was the will of the Fidesz. First of all, I would like to argue with you because this is not a privatisation, it is an auction, and I would not consider the auction to be a privatisation activity. There are conditions, there are legal conditions, not specific conditions. There are legal conditions, and there is an auction, where otherwise the person who meets the legal conditions and gives the best price wins, privatization has nothing to do with it. The other is whose will is it? We've been arguing about this a lot, and we're probably going to argue about it. However, I would like you to understand clearly that the Magos and the National Chamber of Agricultural Economy have joined together a rather obvious demand. If I tell you that we are now at almost 8,000 demands that farmers have put forward, not in a few months, since 1 January 2014, for different land purchase needs in smaller or larger areas, I would not call this a political need, but rather a bottom-up demand. Farmers want to buy land. They want to buy land more than anything. This is exactly what we see in the sales programs so far, and we can see exactly the land for farmers as well. He also made a few comments about the land for the farmers' programme. I would just like to remind you that in this program, the number of previous land users is said to be tenfold, but if I may say so, I'd be a little more specific than that. [[11.10]] There were 600 land users, and now there are almost 8,000 land users. What I would like to ask you to do is to be kind, to reflect on the fact that, after all, the few lands owned by the state have become significantly more users. And then I'd like to turn to what you're suggesting is that rural depopulation, or, in fact, who's good at this whole earth for the farmers programme. I would like to convince you that if a small number of people have used large land and now many use smaller land, this should, after all, be in the direction of supporting the number of jobs in rural areas or at all the means of living in rural areas. By providing land, the government granted land lease rights between 2010 and 14 to people who, by the way, had not been able to rent land before, at least there are many of them, I think that it is in any case in the direction of increasing rural preservation and increasing numbers of people finding their calculations in the countryside. If I point out - I would just like to highlight one number - that young farmers, almost 1,200 young farmers, have now won the land for the farmers' programme, and now we are at over 70,000 hectares, which have been won specifically by young farmers, I think that this is also an excellent proof that what you have said is not so right, because it strengthens the durability of the countryside by allowing young farmers to land. And by the way, I find it strange that you, the opposition, are in a very serious anti-host league. If we also look at the Constitutional Court's submission, which you have signed personally, it is actually about preventing farmers from buying land, the state from satisfying the demand from farmers, not giving farmers these fields, as I have already stressed, in a public auction. I would like to ask what the state should do with it, after, by the way, about 10 percent of the land, the land in Hungary, is the state. Part of this is the field, and we are talking specifically about the sale of fields. If we don't give it to farmers, who do we give it to? I think it is very right that we have tried to support farmers, family farms in the countryside, with rental opportunities between 2010 and 14 and, at their request, we would like to offer and provide the opportunity to purchase these lands in a legitimate, fair procedure. This increases the sustainability of both the countryside and strengthens Hungarian agricultural production and the family and economic model. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-23-4	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP Group, also spoke before the agenda. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-23-5	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Child poverty cannot be said enough because child hunger is one of the most important national issues we have in common. We would like to remind the government that there is no longer a month before the winter break starts, and once again the government will not solve the winter break meal for children in need. If at least the 140,000 children who participated in social meals in the summer, if at least they were given the meal during the next 16-day winter break, it would cost only HUF 985 million 600 thousand. For half a million children entitled to child protection benefits during the winter break, the government could solve a hot meal once a day, it would cost HUF 3.5 billion. Compared to this, János Lázár's recent advisory proposal costs the taxpayers HUF 5 billion. I ask very much Mr Secretary of State not to come for the last eight years, not to mention again how much money has been spent on children's meals, which I no longer care about. The problem has to be solved by the government, because hunger determines many things: the attention, concentration capacity of children, and it also affects the organisation of their everyday activities. A small town mayor told me that after breaks on Mondays, the lunches are running out of brunch, and that more people are taking seconds from lunch. Why? - we can ask the question. Let me quote the Vice-President of the Hungarian Maltese Charity Service, Miklós Vecsei, who said to a newspaper: "The hunger of children is like an epidemic, and we should respond to it. He said that free meals are good for symptomatic treatment, but it does not solve the problem. I also agree that the situation of starving children can only be substantially helped if parents are out of poverty. Many people argue about whose responsibility it is to provide adequate care for children. For example, how can a parent be blamed for the child's malnutrition? Can the parent alone be blamed when the benefits of the poorest have not been increased for eight years next year? How can you buy more food if you still can't afford enough heat for enough food? Can all parents who live in unemployment be blamed, even if there is no one near or far away but the 51,000 forints of temporary community service? According to one expert, the situation of people living in extreme poverty is often hopeless because of the debt spiral. They don't have a long-term goal, there's nothing to save. According to a recent survey, 76 percent and three-quarters of households are unable to finance an unexpected expenditure. If Hungary is doing better, why is the family allowance not rising next year? Why doesn't the two-year allowance for children in need increase to HUF 5800? If Hungary is doing better, why do parents earn hundreds of thousands of forints every month receive tax benefits of tens of thousands of forints? They will kindly announce that they can give up the family allowance. How cynical is that? This also recognises the distorted aid scheme for the 16% tax. Over the past few weeks, it has been shown that government parties, if necessary, also betray responsibility for children. It's been proven that the government doesn't want to deal with child hunger, because they think it's a left-wing campaign issue, and the only place where the children are hungry is where the parents are irresponsible. Compared to that, today, the European Union Parliament is putting child poverty on the agenda in plenary. They believe that this is one of the most serious problems in Europe. Although the rates are very different, children live in difficult circumstances in all Member States. In Hungary, this ratio is 41.4 percent. This makes the country the third among the EU Member States, only in Romania and Bulgaria the situation is worse. This means that almost every second child is somehow affected by poverty in Hungary today. Today, MEPs are debating a report calling on Member States to take concrete steps to reduce child poverty, with 26 million children in Europe, or one in four, at risk of poverty. According to experts, a reassuring solution to the problem of hunger for children is not only a question of money, but also of changing the approach of decision-makers. This is what unfortunately has not been successful in Hungary in the sixth year, despite the fact that there is quite a broad consensus on this. We call on the government to stop the past eight years after six years of government. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Solve the meals of children in need during the next winter break. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-23-6	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-23-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, She said a very interesting half sentence at the beginning of her speech when she said that you were not interested in what the socialist governments had done or what they had failed to do on this issue. [[Márta Demeter: What a lie the government has lied about! Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: I don't care about the past eight years!]] He doesn't even care what the Fidesz-KDNP has done on this issue. [[Moore from the ranks of the MSZP.]] An interesting way to have a political attitude or the past period. You do not care about the words, sentences, promises, or actions that justify commitments, how unemployment and poverty have increased during the MSZP period, when you have increased the number of unemployed by a quarter of a million, while Fidesz-KDNP has only increased the number of people who have a job by 134 thousand in the last 12 months. This 134 thousand people are further away from being exposed to poverty or social exclusion. When unemployment was 11 per cent at your time, and now 6.7 per cent, this means that the number of families in which the risk of poverty is due to unemployment has fallen by nearly half, and this is due to the fact that the Hungarian reforms are in operation in Hungary. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And more and more people have jobs. Or, if you look at how the gross average salary turned out, it is now at a value of 243 400 forints. You know very well that those who have children have to provide meals for children, there is not only a family tax reduction, but there is also a family benefit from January 1st of last year. [[11.20]] So in many cases this is not only their gross but also their net income, which is why they can provide for their children. And that is perhaps one of the most important things to say that parents should earn enough to do so. But this is also our objective, honourable Member, which the Hungarian Socialist Party has never supported here in Parliament, in order to give the textbook to families with children free of charge in the case of school children, which is no longer a social benefit, as in your time, but a part of family support, precisely to compensate for the financial disadvantage that someone is in because of the child's commitment. Why was this not supported when we presented this proposal to Parliament? I would argue clearly with what you said that we would be in a bad position in the Central European context. The numbers are much better than what you said, honourable Member. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Or the duration of the child has been increased from two years to three years. It was three years, but in the socialist period it decreased to two years. This has increased the amount of the child that a family can receive by a factor of one and a half. This 50 percent increase, since it runs for three years and not two years, can serve precisely the children's meals that you have in your family. Why didn't you do this before, why didn't you leave the child for three years? I think that neither the OECD nor the Council of Europe nor the European Union will find an example of whether there is another country in which, in the case of small children who go to daycare and kindergarten, 90% of them - 90 percent! - who are given free meals several times a day. [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Name another country in Europe... [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you, Mr. President. Name another country in Europe, Congresswoman, where it is granted 90% in the case of small children. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Finland!]] From 1 September this year, this means 318 thousand children. Which country did you say, Congresswoman? [[Márta Demeter: Children don't eat well with statistical data.]] I see you like to yell at me, so answer me which country you're in. [[Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Finland. Lajos Korózs: But there are not as many poor children as there are in Hungary.]] They do not know very much, honourable Members and Members of the Council, to say such a country.
u2015-11-23-8	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry, but I'm forced to interrupt. My fellow Members, there is no dialogue. Secretary of State has listened to you, please hear him out. Thank you. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2015-11-23-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If it were still a socialist government, only 92 thousand small children would still get to eat free of charge, Fidesz-KDNP created the possibility of giving 225 thousand more children free of charge. You have not solved this problem either. For the first time this year in the Fidesz-KDNP period, in the case of a holiday meal, every local government, every Hungarian government, which requested support for the summer meal, received it. This was possible because the sum of HUF 3 billion for the summer social meal was higher than ever before. As higher, the overall amount of social catering this year was twice as high as in 2010 during the Socialist Government, instead of HUF 29 billion, 58 billion. And you know it very well, because you voted against it here in Parliament, that next year 71 billion forints will be due to these children. Obviously, this will also increase the number of children to whom this will reach. Or, if you look at the fact that after 50 hours of absence, the family allowance, the amount of schooling allowance can be deducted, this has attracted 20,000 children back to school, and with this 20,000 fewer children are at risk of hunger. And I could tell you for a long time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-10	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Speaking also before the agenda, Ms Rózsa Hoffmann, KDNP Group, spoke with the title "In order to increase Hungarians." I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-23-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I cannot stand to devote a sentence to the fact that, after my long past, I am still stunned by the opposition's lack of understanding and respect for the same topics that have been answered twenty-five times. I would not continue this battle, but I would like to talk about a topic that fits into the series of events of the previous weeks, which was all about how our Hungarians are developing, growing, strengthening, and therefore what needs to be done. Such a series of events was the day of the Hungarian sporadic and the celebration of the Hungarian language, and what I would like to say now is the scholarship programme organised by the Rákóczi Association for schoolchildren. For years, the Rákóczi Association has been organizing a lion's share of the enrollment program of Hungarian schoolchildren from abroad. Children or their parents who enroll their children in Hungarian kindergartens or schools will receive a symbolic scholarship at the beginning of the academic year. In addition to many other successful measures, this act recognises their loyalty to the nation. This year, some 5,800 young students could receive or receive the scholarship in the torn areas, as the program continues. Civil society and many public people are at the forefront of funding. In addition to hundreds of Hungarian governments and others, the members of the Christian Democratic People's Party of Parliament voluntarily help us with financial donations, setting an example of the simple truth that we are brothers, i.e. we are of the same blood, and that we have a moral obligation to help our brothers with a more difficult fate. As a representative of KDNP, I was present at three such occasions: in Albert Szenczi Molnár's hometown, Szencen, in the school of Ányos Jedlik and Gergely Czuczor, who regarded him as his own, and in Párkány, the poetry class of the stone that had been dropped up and down. Anita Herczeg, the wife of our President of the Republic, was also present at the latter location, who greeted the people present in a nice inspirational speech. The scholarship transfers, accompanied by a celebration everywhere, became a real celebration and a witness to our Hungarians, thanks to the teachers, the parents' community of the schools concerned and, not least, the Rákóczi Association, which has done excellent organizing work. The young freshmen made the audience rejoice with Hungarian poems, Hungarian folk dances and funny scenes. School principals and teachers, including many of the teachers, have done a remarkable pedagogical work, since children who have been attending school for just over two months have performed without any faults, with a smile on each of us's lips. And I have to tell you about the parents, because they decided to send their child to Hungarian school despite any counterpropaganda. And it is obvious that their decision was not focused on the symbolic scholarship, but on their Hungarian consciousness, their national vocation and the fact that they increasingly see that it is worth remaining Hungarian, because our language is a treasure that grinds the brain, and because Hungary is growing in all respects, to which it will bring great benefits to their child. We were able to witness touching moments during the handshakes following the scholarship award, and we thanked each other, we, the donors, because they made the right decision to guard their Hungarians, and they, who took over the scholarship, in order that the Hungarian government would provide them with so much help and that we were there, we attended the ceremony. Dear fellow Members, With all my heart, I suggest that everyone support the Rákóczi Alliance with a voluntary contribution. The forints go to the right place, there is a great need in the Highlands, in Transcarpathia especially, in Vojvodina, Transylvania and sporadics. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-12	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-23-13	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, if we are thinking about the Carpathian Basin region in the field of education - and we are thinking about both public education and higher education - then it is important that we help Hungarians in Hungarian education and education across the border in the same way as we do at home. In many cases, especially in the last decades, there have been periods where it was a very brave stand, not a kind of advantage, but often a disadvantage when someone dared to send their child to a Hungarian school. When the government did not pay attention to this, because it was so colourful in Hungary, it maintained this programme of the Rákóczi Association, which is exemplary and exemplary in my view, because it is not based on state aid, but on donations from Hungarian people, individuals and companies, and ten thousand forints from which they can help Hungarians in their education across the border. [[11.30]] Obviously, this is not why they will enroll in Hungarian school, as you said, but we can help them buy the books or other equipment needed for the school. This creates a completely unrevealed relationship between Hungarian and Upper-Hungarian families, but everyone can know that, once a year, 10 thousand forints is given to help a Hungarian family in the Highlands. The government has also gone through a systematic process of linking and supporting education across borders and borders over the last five years, as this kind of program began with the year of Hungarian kindergartens abroad, a coordinated programme of government, followed by schoolchildren, schoolchildren, and the year of vocational training came in 2015, when we paid particular attention to vocational training abroad. Among other things, this is reflected in the planning of the Unlimited Scholarship, when you can spend more money. It is a very important link either with the Highlands, Transylvania and the rest of the broken nation parts of the Unlimited Programme, as it is now best for professional students to cooperate. Perhaps not everyone knows that the Unlimited Programme also has two types of segments. One is the area of classic, more well-known seventh grade trips when these classes visit each other. The other is that when they are even older, so 14-15-16-17-year-olds set a common goal, share a joint training, share their experiences with each other, which we may not yet call professional, but in any case they can already discuss with each other the most important issues at the time, at ten or a few years of age. It is important that the government went through the cross-border education system systematically every year. She also mentioned the day of the diaspora, which was confirmed both here in Parliament and in the public media by a thematic day and by a previous parliamentary decision. The role of the diaspora and the need to care for them separately and to care for them in other ways is very important. After all, in the period after 2010 it became possible for the Hungarian Permanent Conference, which was re-convened after many years, in addition to Maért, and before that, in December of this year, the meeting of the Diaspora Council will be held, and the representatives of the diaspora will meet separately. After all, they do not expect any other kind of support from the Hungarian government, they expect a different kind of coordination from the Hungarian government. Therefore, it is important that the representatives of the diaspora meet first, then the entire Hungarian Permanent Conference. The Diaspora Council was thus established in the spirit of this variety of Hungarian standing and community work, and I believe that the last few years justify its existence, because every year there are an increasing number of representatives of the Diaspora Council and the foreign Hungarians and the sporadics. We're confident that this will help their stand. It is important, as I said, to think both in education and in higher education in the Carpathian Basin region. On the one hand, this enrollment program also helps, but in addition, every year in the budget we accept the lines that provide hundreds of millions of HUF professional support to Hungarian teachers' organisations across the border. Let us hope that this will help them. In the last week, representatives of higher education have visited Budapest together, where we have tried to review the higher education of the Carpathian Basin in a more coordinated way, precisely in order to ensure that the training supply is diverse, not to be 3 or 20 kilometers apart from the Hungarian language training beyond the border, after even missing through parts of the country, even though Hungarians would live there. It is also important to help Hungarians across the border wisely and specifically to reach as many young people as possible, from the Hungarian kindergarten to the school and secondary school, to the Hungarian university education, Hungarian language and Hungarian knowledge. That is why it is important that Budapest always devotes great attention and high amounts to this. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-23-14	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Volner, Member of the Jobbik Group, also applied for a speech before the agenda: the Quaestor Act failed before the Constitutional Court. What led to this and to what? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-23-15	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Behind us is a great scandal of the decade, the broker scandal, which ended with damages exceeding 300 billion forints. In November 2010, I tabled 24 amendments to the Financial Supervision Act, in which I initiated important changes in order to prevent the next banking and broker scandal, the series of financial corruption crimes. I suggested higher fines, tougher accountability, stricter professional rules. These were then voted out by the representatives of Fidesz and the Socialists here in Parliament, together with the members of the Fidesz Parliament who defended the socialists the fraudulent brokers and the crooked bankers because they did not contribute to this proposal being adopted here within the House. It is interesting that when László Windisch, Vice-President of the Hungarian National Bank for Financial Supervision, came into the Economic Committee, himself, after the broker scandal, began to make the same proposals that I myself had made years earlier, four years earlier, which would have prevented Hungary from suffering more than HUF 300 billion damage. What happened here? Quaestor, who has a good relationship with the leading politicians of Fidesz, had a fictitious bond issue in HUF 150 billion. In addition, this was done without any sense from the financial supervision. For 15 years, Antal Rogán said that a series of financial corruption crimes took place at Quaestor, and that the financial supervision sensed nothing at all. How did this story continue? For his outstanding work on 15 March this year at the head of financial supervision, Fidesz awarded his own cadre, Károly Szász, who has been the former president of financial supervision for years. That's how happy they were with his professional performance. The other question is that there was a gigantic scandal that no one noticed at all. It is also important to note that while there are 24 independent brokerage companies in Hungary, 1300 employees of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank have been unable to check the operation of 24 independent brokerage companies on one occasion for years. The same was true of PSZEF, which had previously played the role of financial supervision in Hungary. What did the Constitutional Court say in its resolution of 17 November? Ladies and gentlemen. Just what I said, that Fidesz provided for the law, the Quaestor Act, to determine in a discriminatory manner the range of victims and those entitled to compensation because only one company was affected by the compensation granted by the government. How interesting, exactly the Quaestor, where pro-government politicians regularly turned around, is the businessman with whom we can explore good government relations. And it's interesting that while the government is talking about the banking sector and the brokerage companies having to pay for their own damages, what is actually happening? The government is lying again, fooling people again. It is quite clear that banks can deduct their payments under the Quaestor Act from corporate tax, bank tax and transaction tax. In Hungarian, the state renounces tax forints received so far in order to enable banks to comply with their payment obligation. That is, after all, the banks will receive tax relief, and Hungarian citizens will be the ultimate burden of this measure. We, the better Members, have called on all Members of Parliament, like Jobbik's representatives, to declare on their criminal responsibility that they have not escaped money from Quaestor at the last moments, based on inside information, because there have been such news. But the government hid the identity of the culprits by hiding information about it behind bank secrets. Interestingly, other Members of the Parliament followed the example of the better Members, made a statement, and only the representatives of Fidesz refused to do so until today to live with the words of Viktor Orbán. I would like to ask you when the Fidesz Members will make a statement. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and why taxpayers have to pay for the damage to guilty bankers and brokers. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[11.40]]
u2015-11-23-16	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Pál Völner wishes to respond to what has been said. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-23-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Quaestor Act was adopted by the Parliament on 14 April 2015. At the time of the submission of the bill, the abuses committed by other brokerage firms engaged in illegal activities were not yet fully known, so it would be interesting if the law did apply to them. With regard to the Quaestor-harmed, the legislator pointed out the fact that Quaestor Financial Hrurira Kft. bonds issued by the company group were placed on the market only for the benefit of the group and for the purpose of its financing. Another member of the group, Quaestor Sales and Investment Ltd. and it was a regulated operator who abused the broker's character. A significant part of these bonds turned out to be fictitious, i.e. they did not actually issue securities. Therefore, these abuses had to be dealt with separately because the previous legislation did not provide an opportunity to do so. Under the Quaestor Act, investors may choose not to try to enforce their claims in winding-up proceedings and other claims proceedings, but, under the law, to transfer the claim to the victim's compensation fund on the basis of their application. The basic task is to enforce claims on claims transferred to it using all available assets. In the context of the compensation, the Board of Directors of the Investor Protection Fund is set out in Annex 15/2015. Quaestor Investment Ltd. In relation to its illegal activities, it has decided that there is a fictitious non-existent bond, i.e. a claim for money under the Capital Markets Act 213. The insured person's claim, as defined in paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, is covered by the obligation to indemnify Beva. The Constitutional Court has received a number of constitutional complaints, in which the petitioners asked the Constitutional Court to annul the whole of the law and some of its provisions. The Constitutional Court started the proceedings on 20 October 2015 and took its decision on 17 November. The Constitutional Court did not destroy the Quaestor Act, but drew attention to the need for re-regulation in respect of certain sections of the Act. The scope of claims settlement holders has also been amended as it is necessary to clarify the scope of the right holders in the wake of the decision. It is not possible to specify which company's holders of bonds issued or sold are entitled to settle claims, but, in the context of the determination of the scope of the law, it must be stated that the State is carrying out debt purchase activities in the case of bond holders where the bonds have been placed on the market only within a group of companies. It is therefore appropriate to define the scope of the law in such a way that entitlement covers cases where such intra-group damages have been caused by the use of investment and service activities by the bonds issued by the company belonging to the group of companies. To ensure the functioning of the Fund, the law ensures primarily by borrowing, issuing bonds and applying for a loan advance to be paid by the members of the Beva. In order to enable the claims fund to obtain funds as soon as possible, it is necessary to fix the State guarantee for the fund in the form of a loan and in the form of a bond. The Constitutional Court also laid down provisions for the determination of the amount of claims involved in the settlement of claims, according to which the prohibition of compensation should be enforced and therefore the amounts of compensation should be reduced by different returns. The Government is determined to implement the amendment of the law on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision and the preparation of the bill is ongoing. The Member raised the MNB's responsibility, but he did not study that the MNB had only recently been in a position to carry out financial supervision. Compared to this, it has been very effective in revealing abusive companies operating on the market. And what I can tell you about Members is that our fellow Members' declarations of property are public. They're studying statements from earlier years, if you're really interested in this issue, in case you get any knowledge. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-18	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Kovács, Fidesz Group, also spoke before the agenda, with the title of Csillebérc, the socialist cadet cemetery. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-23-19	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Fifteen years were required until the final judgment, which states that the pioneer camp in Csillebérc is the property of the Hungarian state. With this decision, only a small piece of property stolen at the time of the change of regime was returned to public property in terms of both turnover and symbolic value. The Hungarian government established the Camp of Csillebérc in 1948, which was initially called the pioneer-public and then the pioneering camp of Csillebérc. In the 4.6 hectares area, 1200-1500 children could be accommodated at the same time. During the change of system, he came to the pioneer covenant under suspicious circumstances. The Antall-Boross government, which was in office between 1990-94, tried to establish a clear settlement system, and parliamentary decisions were also made, but it seems that the ruling politicians did not make sufficient efforts to be accountable. They left loopholes for those involved in the relief, so their attempt to clear the matter proved to be inadequate. Between 1994 and 1998, the left had no interest in accountability at all, as its members were beneficiaries of the relief cases. The pioneer association also took advantage of every loophole, the history of the past 15 years is full of cactiphant legal solutions, procrastinations, judicial exchange, the launch of parallel lawsuits, misrepresentation of property rights, mortgages, and foiled sales attempts, as well as property notes registered with suspicious haste, which were then examined by the courts for years to see if it could be cancelled. It is likely that further judgments are required to allow the State to enter within the Csillebérc estate, although the court already stated in 2004 that the gift contract with which the property became the property of the pioneers is invalid. The former trustee, the Communist Youth Association, disbanded at its convention on 22 April 1989, and only two months after its termination, on 27 June 1989, gave the camp of Csillebérc to the pioneer association. Ference Gyurcsány is among the representatives of the giving party, since in 1989 the former Prime Minister was the head of the University and College Council of the KISZ KB and then Vice-President of Demis. The once pioneering camp has had no children's recreation in its magnificent Buda property of 4.6 hectares. They offer the service for money to organize corporate parties, conferences, bachelor parties and bachelor parties. The site is owned by the Association of Hungarian Pioneers. It's called the Csillebérci Recreation and Youth Centre. The operator of Csillebérc Szabadútó Kft., managing director of Nóra Nagy, the former MSZP representative, became famous when it turned out that she and her ex-husband, István Nyakó, who also represented her, had two expenses of HUF 36 million in four years. The current president of MÚSZ, Péter Rácz was also a Member of Parliament in MSZP colours. In 1999 he sold to Bau-bérc Kft. for HUF 14.2 million to the 200 sq m hunting house in the camp area. In 2000, he sold the whole area to an American offshore company registered in Liechtenstein. Following the sale of the hunting house in 1999, the State claimed in the 2000 lawsuit that two months had passed between the termination of the KISZ and the birth of the gift contract. In other words, when the gift contract was signed, the KIS no longer existed. Thus, it was not possible to provide for the transfer of the property of Szillebérc. The reference was successful, the Metropolitan Court ruled final in September 2004 and the Supreme Court confirmed that the gift contract was invalid. [[11.50]] However, as regards the actual settlement of ownership, he instructed the Court of First Instance to pursue the proceedings again. However, only ten years after that decision, in 2010, the Metropolitan Court held that the Csillebérc property, more precisely, its share of the property owned by the Hungarian State, should be returned free of charge to the name of the Hungarian State. At that time, the Court of First Instance reserved the ownership of the Bau Wraith for the hunting house. This has been appealed by the state, according to the final judgment that has just been delivered, with success. The court of second instance has justified this decision by the fact that no one can pass on any rights it does not have. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] However, the final judgment given after 15 years proves that more decisive action and more determined effort can be taken to save the state's property that has been kidnapped and transferred into private pockets. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-20	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári wishes to respond. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-23-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Csillebérc case is once again a case in which the truth was revealed very, very slowly, in 25 years, and after 25 years, the normal state of affairs, the clean state of the law, can be restored. At the same time, there have been 25 years, a very long post-system change period, in which there are countless socialist politicians, MPs, party directors, different positions, and today either in the benches of the MSZP, or in the member list of the MSZP, or among the independent politicians in the line of the Democratic Coalition, who were also the drivers and partly beneficiaries of this period. This is once again a suspicious case in which the State benefits, but the people involved in it have been condemned, both in civil matters and, as the Member referred to, in a criminal case. This has certainly been condemned over the past few years. The Communist Youth Alliance itself wanted this asset to be played out in some way. This is about the fact that there was a public fortune, the Camp of Csillebérc, which was supposed to serve as a holiday for all Hungarian children. We have now heard a great deal from the socialist Members who were not in the benches a few speeches ago that everything must be given to children, but this was somehow not necessary here, at the time of the change of regime and after that. The first Orbán government initiated the procedure in this regard, since we debated that the Communist Youth Association - the Secretary-General of which I believe Ferenc Gyurcsány was the secretary of the Central Commission - was the secretary of the XII. At his convention, he would have legally transferred this property to the Association of Hungarian Pioneers, although his ownership was registered at the Land Office on 30 June. At the same time, the Hungarian State contested during the first Orbán government that these contracts under which the land office registered ownership would have been valid. A very long legal process has begun on this. What you could see was that when it was a right - side government, these cases accelerated when there were left - color governments, these cases were blocked not only on the defendant's side, so on the pioneer side, but also on the government side. Clearly, in the first period, in the 1990s, the left-wing government played for the statute of limitations. He did not act because he believed that these conditions could remain this way and that the different needs on which action could be taken should be put to good use. Then, after 2002, lawsuit tricks were used, for example, to adjust the course of the trial to external facts and to suspend it until other issues other than those on the merits of the case were considered, and the case was requested to be suspended until the land office of the wind ticket. These were tricks that could drag the decision for years, and for five to six years they could explain the stopping of the lawsuit with these external reasons. It took 15 September 2010 to be able to reopen this procedure and to prove the ownership of the Hungarian State in court again. It was a very long legal affair, a very long legal procedure, while a criminal proceedings were conducted against Péter Rácz, but, I must say, the Hungarian state, for the Hungarian children, for the young Hungarians, was completely successful. It was worth starting the case that had been set aside for 10 years ago, because this is how we managed to get this very valuable children's camp back, and we trust that it will indeed serve the interests of Hungarian young people later on. I have to add that, of course, this is not the end of the case, because for 25 years, the Hungarian Pioneer Association has used this property, the Kft. that it created, had annual revenues of 170-200 million HUF, which would have been for the young Hungarians, not the officers of the pioneer association. We also see that, as a member of the board, as you have mentioned, Member, various socialist politicians appear in this matter. On the one hand, Nóra Nagy, former member of the board of the MSZP, who also appeared around Csillebérc, also appeared István Nyakó, her husband at the time, but other names can be said. Congressman László Varju would certainly have information about either the hunting house, the hunting house owner, or the delivery agent of one of the Chinese owners. But Péter Kiss or Imre Karl were there in the spring of 1991 when the most important decisions were made about the division of demise assets. Also important... [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I believe that we will continue to do so, honourable Members. [[Defiance.]] I would just like to say one thing: the pioneering association also provided that, in the event of its termination, its entire assets would be transferred to the Theatre Foundation, the chairman of which was the former party director of the MSZP. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Countdown! A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-22	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Today, an independent representative of László Varju came forward after the agenda; Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz; László György Lukács, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Ikotity, István LMP; Zoltán Kész, independent. Dear Parliament, Now, at 11:56 p.m., we will begin the discussion of questions and immediate questions. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office:, Is it important to create jobs in the Baranya Ormanship within the 25-Mrd Ős-Drava programme? It's an address. On behalf of the Prime Minister, Mr Miklós Seszták, Minister for National Development, who is competent and competent on behalf of the Prime Minister, answers the question. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-23-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, In 2012, the Ős-Drava programme was launched, which is a complex concept of territorial development involving both the natural, social and economic spheres, which wanted to create conditions for long-term sustainable development in one of the most disadvantaged areas of Hungary, in the southern part of Baranya County. In April 2013, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that the success of the programme is the test of both the government and the country. Mr. Secretary, I must say that the government failed this test, not very successful. The government decisions in espionage have been revoked, and the program seems to have been parked. The development programme of an area whose break-off may be completed tomorrow. In recent times, neither the social nor the economic sphere has been addressed. The people here are disappointed, from a 25 billion-dollar programme that has been implemented so far, they feel no impact on it, there is no evidence of economic cooperation or any significant tourist impact, without which the population there is feeling only deluded. However, I have to say, Mr State Secretary, that we too welcome this programme, because its draft has largely taken into account the geographical location of the region and the economic realities, but no job creation has been created, so we have to be disappointed that the production of food materials, preparation and finished products has not been created, and it could put hundreds of families directly and indirectly in the labour market, but this has not happened. For years there have been ready plans on the table of the mayor of Sávod and Kisszentmárton, which would facilitate the return of the low-skilled to the primary labour market with practical solutions. They didn't even address them! Cross-border cooperation has not been established, and Croatia-Baranya is ready to jump. There was no tourist development, and beyond the Villány-Siklós-Harkány threesome, the beauty of the Ormany could be presented. I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether there will be job creation within the 25 billion-dollar Ancient Drava programme. Thank you for your attention. [[12.00]]
u2015-11-23-24	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-23-25	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Member, The government has given priority to improving the situation of people living in the Ormany, and that is why we have adopted the government decision on the Ancient Drava programme, which you have mentioned, which is still in force today. As with all rural development programmes, the main objective of the Ancient-Drava programme is to create jobs. The complex plans for the rise of the Ormania - and I would stress the complexity here -, the change of landscapes and water management, the training of human resources, the combination of agricultural cultures based on family farming, the development of rural and ecotourism are without exception designed to increase local employment. The weight and purpose of the programmes will not allow us to implement our ideas by rushing, skipping or skipping basic processes. Just recently, we handed over one of the first elements of the water steering system, which provides water supply to the Cún-Saporca deadland. The government-approved water management programme with a budget of more than HUF 10 billion, covering some 40,000 hectares, started with this. The investment will provide an opportunity for people living here to conduct exemplary irrigation and intensive farming. The former socialist governments have removed one of the elements of public transport in the region, the railway, your party has abandoned this difficult country by solving its own problems. The current government, on the other hand, has taken up the Ancient-Drava programme, does not let go of the people who live here and, with serious investments, improves their quality of life and life opportunities. I ask you, Congressman, to support this programme. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-26	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, György Szilágyi, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Attorney General: "The taste of the prosecution is more important than the law? It's an address. I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi.
u2015-11-23-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, A month ago, the Attorney General here in Parliament acknowledged that the violation of the national symbol in the judgment of a criminal offence had been misinterpreted by the Public Prosecutor's Office in the case of the Holy Crown and had not properly applied the law. I quote his sentences at the time: "Yes, not only the Holy Crown in Parliament is protected, so this is now a clear practice, but there was a principled uncertainty. But the question of principle is quite clear that the Holy Crown is also protected in general. '"'," said Peter Polt. At the time, the D.A. refused to press charges against the Jobbik Playersroom chain, which sold a T-shirt that insulted and insulted the Holy Crown. We have therefore prepared another petition in which we have also asked the prosecution to review its decision at that time and to order the investigation. Since then, the D.A.'s response to our submission has arrived. This shows that, contrary to the words of the Attorney General, the prosecution's position has not changed, since it is described that although the law has been misinterpreted, the prosecution considers that the representation of the Holy Crown is not excessive or grossly abusive and therefore the investigation is not ordered. In other words, the Saint Crown is represented as a panther-painted, slammed baseball cap, according to the D.A.'s office, non-violent, non-exaggerating national image abuse. I don't even understand that if we protect our national symbols, what is excessive or harsh? If someone violates the national symbol, is he offended - or is it now the taste of the D.A.'s office that decides on such matters and not the letter of the law? Another outrageous part of the explanatory statement says: "It does not provide a sufficient basis for carrying out an investigation, that the representation indicated in the complaint violates the sensitivity of certain groups of society. I'm sorry? ! So, according to the DA's office, the violation of our national symbol under legal protection only violates the sensitivity of certain groups of society, i.e. the Hungarians? So you think that in Hungarian society, Hungarians are only present as a group, or minority? Is that what you think, Deputy Attorney General? Would they choose to do so even if it were the symbols of our country's minorities? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-28	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Attorney General Ervin Belovich. You have the floor.
u2015-11-23-29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In relation to your question, I would first like to inform you that the concept of taste is completely indifferent to the activities of the prosecution, and that only the legal provisions have relevance to the prosecution. According to the legal facts protecting national symbols, this crime is committed by a person who uses, in public, Hungary's anthem, flag, coat of arms or the term "St. Crown" or otherwise desecrates them. Indeed, after the entry into force of the new Criminal Code, there has been a principled uncertainty, but the prosecution has already consistently taken the view that not only the Holy Crown, but also its visual representation, could be the subject of the crime in question. In view of the fact that there was no verbal offence in the case declared by the Member, the prosecution had therefore to examine whether the specific conduct could be considered as abuse. This is the case for any abusive activity which seriously violates national symbols. In the specific nature of the conduct, it cannot be ignored that the violation of the national symbol has been committed by the law in the context of crimes against civil rest, from which it is clear that activities which are capable of disrupting public rest can be regarded as criminal behaviour. I think that the representation of the Holy Crown in the specific case is extremely tasteless, but it cannot be regarded as an activity capable of disrupting public peace. [[György Szilágyi: Why?]] Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi: Shame! Spectacular applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-23-30	I would like to thank the Deputy Attorney General for his reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. What is behind the further elimination of higher education courses in logic? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2015-11-23-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, The Ministry of Human Resources has issued a statement recently entitled "Professionals and Graduation Exams" and additional points in the course of the 2017 higher education recruitment procedures. This document shows, among other things, which higher education courses will be discontinued by the government. Almost all areas of training are affected by loss, since from Andragogy to economic and financial mathematics, to the basic public service sector, many kinds of training are the victims of the changes. The greatest loss may be agricultural science training, where a number of important courses are abolished. In 2017, it will be the last time to apply to animal breeding engineers, IT and administrative engineers, environmental management agricultural engineers or plant-producing engineers. Or perhaps in a country where, after a few weeks of goldfish training, you can get into government land grabbing, there is no need for real and quality agricultural education? But social science training also suffers a serious cut, as social studies are terminated, despite the fact that they have previously stood up for the training of university leaders, teachers, students and professionals. What is the logic behind the elimination of majors? The problem of LMP is not, in itself, the elimination of a specific course, if there is something that will replace it, but what is mentioned behind the whole change. What we see is that the pillars of the knowledge society are constantly being kicked out, and creative and innovative training is being dismantled. This is a transformation driven by ideology and lobbyism, where the community-based world is growing. Dear Secretary of State, What principles does the government follow when it eliminates important and successful training? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-11-23-32	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-23-33	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This whole process, which you are talking about, Congressman, you know that it was almost over at the beginning of the year, because it was at that time; it was now published, and that is why you are taking the question out. But you can also remember the social debate that happened in this regard many months ago. The fact that this social debate will take place has also been known for a year and a half, or at least a year, since our strategy "Training in Higher Education" clearly identified the principles and selections that will take place here. This has two goals. On the one hand, we should not deceive students, we should not offer them trainings, we should offer them courses that may sound good, and they can spend five years at the university, but then, when they get out of college, they will not be able to use this knowledge. [[12.10]] The second is that we prefer training and training structures that are better suited to the needs of the economy. These two are obviously connected. What is the criteria for this selection: firstly, we have had Bologna-based training for ten years, so there is already enough data in the graduate track tracking system to see who was able to find out and what income he has acquired with the skills he has acquired, whether he has been in the sector or elsewhere, whether his income is substantial or not. Application and recruitment rates in recent years have been the second factor. The third is the degree of overlap; one course and the other course may have covered 80% of each other; it is enough to teach the same training in the same course, not to have two courses with the same training content. The justification for the levels of training was the fourth aspect, since there is one that is enough to be taught in OKJ training or at a lower level, without a five-year or 3+2-year university education. In addition, we have taken into account the data and requests of the Hungarian Rectors' Conference, the professional chambers, trade unions and student interest representatives, precisely to ensure that the knowledge that students can use is maintained. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-34	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, László Salacz, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office a question: It's an address. Mr László Salacz has the floor.
u2015-11-23-35	Dear Secretary of State, This year, too, it was possible for civil society associations to submit applications for aid for the development of basic services for the rural economy and the population. In the county of Bács-Kiskun, which included my constituency, nearly 100 associations submitted applications, of which 38 received grants, worth some HUF 240 million. The aid was launched with the aim of encouraging the development and expansion of the range of basic services in non-service settlements. From the available funding framework, it was possible to acquire new vehicles and related additional equipment, with full support, which could have been taken over in Kecskemét in recent weeks. Thanks to the investment, a quarter of the 2001 Civil Guard already has new cars, while previously they supplied 15-20-year-old cars. On the basis of the needs received, the transfer of motor vehicles was carried out smoothly by 6 November 2015. It can be achieved with the support of the common services of the Civil Guard and the police to further reduce the number of crimes, increasing and strengthening public security. In the framework of the tender, we would like to express our thanks to the vigilantes and civil society organisations for their daily sacrifice and voluntary work, which significantly improves Hungary's safety. With all due respect, I ask the Honourable Secretary of State: how does the purchase of patrol cars help to create public security for the population in the countryside? How does the government plan to use the amount available under the rural development programme? I look forward to the Secretary of State's honour's reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-36	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-23-37	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, With its question, it gives us the opportunity to talk about another aspect of rural development, which we have been talking about in the last few weeks in front of the National Assembly, a very important segment of rural development aid, a very important part of the investments that can improve the public safety and security of people living in rural areas.After 2010, the government found disastrous conditions not only in the economy, but also in the area of public security. In very short, we could say that the pre-2010 government turned its back on the country's Hungary. At the time, we promised to deploy 3,500 new police officers by 2014. Here I respectfully report that 4300 people have been able to increase the number of people working for rural public security in order to regain the confidence of the population. With regard to the Civil Guard, we can say that there are currently 52,000 vigilantes in service in Hungary. They had a very serious problem with having to work with a supply of tools that, in many cases, was faulty, or there were traces of time and weariness. In many cases, they used cars that the police had already scrapped and subsequently received them for use by the Civil Guard. Thanks to the government's proposal, which allowed the purchase and transfer of 570 new vehicles worth HUF 2+2 billion, this programme phase is essentially closed, but of course it is only the past; it will also be possible to purchase additional vehicles in the 2014-2020 EU development cycle, with a current position of HUF 8.3 billion in 2016. What, I think, is equally significant, is that the civil guards in this programme can calculate an aid intensity of between 75 and 95 per cent, so a relatively lower amount of self-financing must be added in order for their work to be supported by the government through these procurements. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-38	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. Chaos when paying advance payments? It's an address. It is for Congressman Zoltán Haughty to take the floor.
u2015-11-23-39	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. On October 18th, the leading news was, I quote, the payment of the new area payment to farmers started on Friday. The payments were solemnly launched by Minister of Agriculture Sándor Fazekas in a sample farm in Förtel, during a press conference, and payment of the advance payment of the national milk premium was also launched. The Minister pointed out that Hungary is one of the few EU Member States that make use of up to 70% advance payments, with a maximum rate of 50% so far. The wallet manager stressed that, thanks to the improvements made in the Agriculture and Rural Development Office, the advance payment comes to farmers in a predictable and reliable manner. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Secretary of State, that is not what farmers are experiencing. There's a mass complaint, there's a payment. This is particularly the case for milk producers, since no one has received a penny in that category of farming. All worrying opinions, including during the ministerial hearing, have been discharged by the fact that unprecedented subsidies are coming to producers these days. The news seems to be true, because almost no one has seen support yet. Milk producers are certainly not, as they are in the fined size category, where no one has yet had access to their rightful payment. This is also a big problem because it is the first advance payment to be made under the new rules. The profession is talking about a system malfunction, the MVH is not giving information to anyone. For the record, it only shines on itself, and this is what the last presidential interview shows; otherwise, we will obviously be discussing this on the day of the corruption debate. My questions are: how much do you expect to pay? How much of this has been accomplished in a month? Is it true that no payment has been made over 1200 hectares, where milk producers have a major part? Who is responsible for this, Mr. Secretary? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-11-23-40	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State György Czerván. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-23-41	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform the Member that, from 16 October, the MVH has started to refer advances to farmers on a number of grounds and without discrimination. Of the Member States in the EU that are paying an advance at all, we pay most of the advances on eight items in total. In the first step, the MVH started prepayment of SAPS, greening and national milk aid, followed by advance payments to sheep and dairy cattle. I would also like to draw the Member's attention to the absolute priority of the dairy farms mentioned by you, which is confirmed by the fact that 2235 customers - 77 per cent of all applicants - have already received an aid of HUF 11,3 billion, regardless of how many hectares of agricultural land they use. The amount of advance payments will continue to increase until the end of November, with a total payment of approximately HUF 130 billion. However, it should also be noted that the advance payment is only possible where its legal conditions have been met. Failure to do so could lead to serious EU sanctions. [[12.20]] Honourable Congressman, The wallet pays particular attention to the support of dairy farms. As a result, instead of HUF 28.9 billion in 2014, milk producers will receive some HUF 50 billion in 2015, which is the highest value in the whole of Europe per kilogram of milk, and under your governance they could only have dreamed of doing so. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]]
u2015-11-23-42	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mrs Loránt Hegedűs, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister for National Development: will there be a comprehensive inquiry into some EU applications? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-11-23-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I've recently contacted you about a series of irregularities involving channel investments from KEOP resources. These developments are of the order of billions each, so their financial implementation is particularly responsible, as is the technical implementation of investments. I have received signals from a number of municipalities about the maladministration of these applications. Lack of necessary public information, uncontrollable funding and spectacular overinvoicing, as well as sloppy execution - these are the most typical complaints. It seems that abuse is taking place on the basis of a well-educated scenario, which harms the small people working hard in significant amounts, and that they are also putting Hungary's reputation at risk. That is why I asked for a comprehensive examination of the KEOP applications, but you rejected this. Since then, I have had the opportunity, among other things, to find out directly about such a channel investment in Simontornya. On the basis of the consultation with the public and the examination of the relevant documents, I had to experience serious shortcomings. Although the construction was completed here, it was found that many residents were unable to connect to the network. The completed infrastructure is useless in several places. After the construction works, the restoration of public areas is still waiting for itself, as is the settlement of the public's self-employment payments. At the same time, it is surprising and thoughtful that there is no record of any shortcomings already known in the minutes when the investment was taken over by technical transfer. In this way, the locals may well ask whether they will be responsible for the mistakes of the execution and who will bear its costs? So I ask you, Mr Secretary of State: will there be a comprehensive investigation into KEOP investments, especially on the basis of the case outlined above? Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-44	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State János Fónagy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-23-45	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Parliament, In the 2007-2013s, we spent 473 billion HUF on waste water treatment and cleaning investments, with 520 municipalities all over the country. No request or complaint was received by the public regarding the project "Simontornya city drainage and sewage treatment" to the Deputy State Secretary of the Ministry of National Development for Environmental and Energy Efficiency Operational Programmes and the Managing Authority of the Environment and Energy Operational Programmes. The technical transfer-acquisition documentation issued as the closure of the works essentially determines the suitability for operation of the public utility created. The technical content included in the project support contract and the corresponding business contract was achieved and the technical transfer took place on 29 July 2015. The guarantee period shall be 24 months from the day on which the transfer takes place, i.e. two years, until the expiry of this period, the contractor shall correct any errors that may arise. On this basis, and in view of this, a comprehensive investigation into investments in the construction of waste water under the environmental and energy operational programme is not planned. The operation of the system is considered to comply with the legislation. As last time, I would like to ask and urge the Member to report the matter to the investigating authority as a representative if she sees any deficiencies or probable suspicions of a crime. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-46	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of National Economy:. Who will receive the casino in Sopron? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2015-11-23-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, One who is allowed into the casino business in Hungary has a huge profit. Last year, more than 800,000 visitors visited the arcades and left nearly 130 billion forints. Casino traffic is constantly increasing, profits are increasing. In addition, operators' conscience depends on their income. The accounting documents are compared with ridiculous camera footage. That's why the LMP says that as long as the casinos are not connected directly to the NAV, they need to be locked up, and no one can profit from gambling. Not all casinos are operated by Andy Vajna film producer and Gábor Sima football club president. There is one exception, Casino Sopron, which belongs in the quarter to the State Gambling Company and in the third quarter to an Austrian company. However, the casino in Sopron can only operate in its present form until the end of 2015, after which the concession law must be issued. I wonder who the Sopron casino goes to. Will Andy Vajna get the sixth or Gábor Sima's third casino? Or perhaps, as the birds chirp, they will give a new, reliable fidesz acquaintance to a business offering a rich profit? If it isn't the Prime Minister's close friend, will István Garancsi, who is also a huge winner of the water world, be the new casino cemetery? Dear Secretary of State, We're about to have a decision on how to operate, and they're obviously thinking about who to reward with another luxury casino. Will the casino in Sopron come close to you? Why do they even give out concessions, why is it not a state monopoly on casino operations, besides, of course, the need to fatten the hinterland? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2015-11-23-48	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, answers the question. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-23-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think that your question has once again given us the opportunity for the opposition to say that, in essence, the person operating a casino in Hungary is nothing more than a tax fraud. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties. Interview in the lines of the MSZP: Yes!]] I think that's what you claim to be accusations and slander. Such claims should be proven, not by sayings, but by facts. Obviously, you don't know the terms of casino operations, but the fact that you weren't there is certain. [[Erzsébet Schmuck intervenes.]] In Hungary there are 8 casinos, there are at least 96 cameras in those casinos, and most of the cameras are 179, which operate in a casino. These cameras take all the details of what happens in the casino, without exception everything: who enters, how to justify himself, every money movement that happens at the tables during the live game, every chip change, money counting, everything is recorded by the camera [[István Ikotity: And delete.]] and it will be stored. This one's being checked by Gambling Control. Up to this year, 420 on-the-spot checks have been carried out in the 8 casinos, 57 documentary checks have been carried out, and 65 inspections have also been carried out to ensure compliance with the State's obligation. There is absolutely no way a single forint from the casino can be put in your pocket free of tax without cheating or falsifying camera footage or falsifying documents. It's a dirty lie, and I think if that's what you're saying, then please prove it. As regards the right to issue the casino in Sopron, it will be in full compliance with Hungarian laws and regulations. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-50	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, József Kovács, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. Will waiting lists continue to decline? It's an address. Mr József Kovács has the floor.
u2015-11-23-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, It is pleased for all of us that a number of positive and positive measures have recently been introduced in the field of public health. [[12.30]] We can mention here the tightening of the Non-Smoker Protection Act, the introduction of the Catering Regulation or the extension of the various filter programmes. It is known to all of us that waiting lists are a serious problem in health care in most countries of the world, including Hungary. Factors such as an increase in the number of patients with chronic diseases, an ageing population or an increase in patients' demand for health care due to technological changes contribute to increasing demand for health services. The health government, after 2010, rightly recognised that the first step in proper management of waiting lists was to have accurate data and to have a proper record. Accordingly, a new online waiting list system was established in 2012. This new system operates nationally according to the same principles, transparently. A law has also been adopted requiring public-funded CT-MRI diagnostic service providers to carry out diagnostic tests within 14 days in case of suspicion of cancer clinical disease. In addition to this, the priority of reducing waiting lists is the fact that at the end of last year, the government was able to spend 1 billion HUF and this year another HUF 5 billion in additional resources to reduce waiting lists. The programme has reduced the number of people waiting from 70,000 in 2012 to 44 thousand in April 2015 and has been reported to continue since then. I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, how is the waiting list reduction programme now? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Will the government help reduce waiting lists? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-52	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Bence Rétvári will answer the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-23-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I think it's most difficult for everyone to bear the fact that if a relative, an acquaintance of his, was waiting for surgery, he would have to wait weeks or months at the same time. That's why it was important for the government, because it's not just annoying, it's also reducing the possibility of recovery. ! To make these waiting lists as short as possible. We did not want to deal with hospital safes, and we did not privatise healthcare for HospInvest, but we said that we would create first, as you said, a national single institutional waiting list, so that it would be transparent, so that orderliness can be respected, that capacity, needs, can be well planned in space and time. It was created, and then, after that, we were able to launch the various waiting list reduction programs. In 2012, when this national transparent system was established, it included 70,000 patients, or 70,000 patients. In 2013, we immediately provided a HUF 800 million grant to hospitals, of which 1,300 were able to advance and advance from the waiting list. You're gonna have to call the patients here, and you're gonna have to reschedule. Another HUF 1 billion came in 2014, which helped again 1300 surgeries. This year, the budget included HUF 1 plus HUF 5 billion, of which we can perform 12,000 extra surgeries. So the number of 70,000 was reduced to 44,000, and by the beginning of autumn this year the number of people waiting on the waiting list decreased to 35,000. On the website of the Hospital Association, you can find that if you cannot provide it in your own hospital, which hospitals still have spare capacity. The state provides all of its funding, the operating capacity is the only limit. Most surgeries included cataract surgery, hip replacement surgery, knee replacement surgery, open heart surgery, orthopaedic major surgery and spinal stabilization surgery. Our goal is to do small surgeries. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] a maximum of two to three months and a maximum of six months for the larger ones. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-54	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, László Kiss, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development:.How long do they have to endure the traffic chaos of the III. District people? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-23-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, My question became necessary because of the anomalies raised in connection with the non-constructing of the Pomazi road overpass, since the planned amendments, some of which have been implemented, have not been implemented in other parts, let us say that they do not affect the broadest public agreement. The district municipality and the residents of the district consider that they do not provide an appropriate alternative to those who would be heading towards the city; and the decision to close the Vienna Railway Passage before the completion of Aranyvölgy utca and III. the entry into force of agreements previously concluded by the district municipality, let's say we find it of concern. The Pomazi Highway overpass was supposed to be built on the III. In the district, while you're making traffic changes. This didn't happen, the road renovations are going to be a mess. According to preliminary plans, Route 10, Golden Valley Street and the Pomazi Road overpass would have been completed at the same time. That didn't happen. Despite the fact that the municipality had already made an early contribution to the preparation of the plans and to the start of railway development. According to our information, you would have wanted to do this at the same time, but it is somewhat contrary to the fact that the renovation and construction of the overpass started only in the summer. I travel by every day, I witnessed what was going on there, and it didn't happen during the summer. I would like to draw your attention, Mr Secretary of State, to the very interesting practice that the employees of the construction company are doing in the area of renovation, creating life-threatening situations, constantly violating the KRESZ, as they sometimes push the vehicles back onto the road without paying any attention, and then implement the works without having any impact on the road users. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That is why I ask the Minister: how could the improvements not be coordinated? When do we expect the Pomazi Highway overpass to be completed, and when will this traffic chaos be over? Thank you for listening.
u2015-11-23-56	Thank you, Congressman. The question will be answered by Secretary of State János Fónagy. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-23-57	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, True, we wanted to hand over the entire facility at the same time. What came up: first of all, what you know exactly, you may have mentioned that the expropriation procedures have been delayed, because when those involved have learned that modernisation works are being carried out, it is obvious that they all wanted to benefit as much as possible. By the way, excavation finds have been found which have further disrupted the deadlines in a welcome, but hindering all executions. And last but not least, there was a heavy rain and a Danube flood. At the same time, the bypass section between the roundabout ofüröm and the Vienna road was put into service on 6 November 2015. However, the planned completion of Aranyvölgy utca and Pomázi road facilities at the end of October is indeed delayed, and the reconstruction of Aranyvölgy utca is expected to be completed by December; the construction of the Pomazi road overpass can take place no later than next May. After the transfer of the section of the new route 10 between the roundabout of space and the Vienna road, for reasons of road safety, the old railway passage of Vienna had to be closed, because the connection between the old and the new road 10 is too close to the passageway, and in the event of traffic congestion, traffic organisers expect that the third-fourth row cars are needed, and the closing barrier is obviously causing you trouble. At the same time, I ask for the patience and support of the local residents and those affected in this truly unpleasant situation to be one of the most important, many [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The modernization that makes life easier for hundreds of thousands of people should not be seen as trouble, but as joy and result. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-58	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Human Resources: When will there be a wage increase in the cultural sector? It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2015-11-23-59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, In January 2015, those working in the cultural sector drew attention to their unsustainable, stable wages for years. The Cultural Sectoral Stakeholders Council also warned in March 2015 that there would be huge damage if substantial progress had not been made. But it didn't happen, and it's been another year. I'm sure the Secretary of State can't wait to read it: thanks to the government, in recent years, how many billion forints more to support culture. However, before you do that, I would like to draw attention to a very important fact: the distribution of budget resources for the cultural sector has never shown such a distorted picture as in recent years. This distortion will only increase if the current situation does not change. I find the government's perception that its commitment to culture should be shown through the most representative prestige investments to be flawed. [[12.40]] Even if, because of the expected success, one of these will be handed over three times just in case. I think that it would be much more appropriate for the government to take greater account of the signs of the profession and, first, to hurry to care for those who fill these institutions with knowledge, professionalism and knowledge and operate them at a high level. The government is currently trying to build by ignoring those who inhabit the buildings of culture. The increase in wages in the sector would affect some 12-13 thousand people in total and could be felt from approximately 5 billion forints. Only in relation to the design of the Liget project, a similar amount of money has so far gone to the extent that it has developed around it. So I ask the Secretary of State: when will the people in the cultural sector finally get a raise? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-60	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-23-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You said you didn't have a good structure for the cultural sector budget. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We are telling you that its internal structure has changed, not because anything has decreased, but, indeed, the investments that have established otherwise national pride can take place in Hungary to such a great extent that the amount of developments is increasing year after year, and I think we can all be proud of that. I don't think that if you think back, that there must have been a lot of debate and, let's say, whether the Heroes' Square should be created or whether the Kunsthalle should be built... - obviously in the capital and in the Council of Public Works and in Parliament there was a debate about this, but how important it is now, and how proud we are of the establishment of these institutions! I remember that the Jobbik, which considers itself to be a national party, such developments, which are really meant to present national culture and represent its colorfulness and size... - these should be opposed to you, because then there wouldn't have been a National Theatre, the Museum of Fine Arts wouldn't have been renovated, the Castle Garden Bazaar would never have been built or renewed; or the renovation of the Erkel Theatre would have been cancelled, and the Liszt Academy would have, just to highlight a few of those that started in recent years, have been completed, and are very significant, I think, in terms of the country's cultural life. However, it is important, of course, but I would not oppose the development of wages, but I would say that both are essential to the country and would not take it away - unlike Jobbik - from the development. So, in terms of wages, the Council of Cultural Sectoral Interests - as you pointed out - met in March this year, and specifically on 24 March, where Secretary Peter Hoppál, of course, took part and consulted the people there. It was decided that they wanted to develop a career model, which is professionally mature, but at the same time it is difficult because of the heterogeneity of the sector. He was prepared, and he stood up - I mean, this data request was prepared and stood up - a working group that met on 11 June and could not bring this career model to finalization, precisely because in the fields of public education, public collections, arts and heritage conservation in a wide variety of places [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] workers in the cultural sector. It is therefore more difficult to bring this together. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-23-62	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél and István Ikotity, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources: Hungary is performing better, while we are the hosts of Hungarian nurses' salaries. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2015-11-23-63	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, At the beginning of November, the publication of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD's "Health Panorama 2015" was published. The study presents and compares key health statistics in OECD countries. This also tells us that Hungarian health workers are among the worst earners compared to the national average wage. The salary of hospital nurses is the lowest among OECD countries on a purchasing power basis. The fact that we have become hosts is due, on the one hand, to the missed wage increases and, on the other hand, to the decline in the proportion of highly qualified nurses in Hungary. A lot of people decide whether to leave or to go to a market provider or to leave the field. It takes months to fill a graduate's place. As long as the place is not filled, it will be resolved either by restructuring, so that the existing ones will be burdened with even greater burden, or with lower qualifications, which will impair the quality of care. The government has no response to the unsustainable pay situation. There were promises from the former State Secretary of Health, Gábor Zombor, regarding the increase in the laborers' wages, but they were forgotten as the Secretary of State left. Instead of raising wages, it was arranged as a wage supplement by releasing mobile wages. The wage supplement only affects on-call workers on multiple shifts or standbys, as opposed to the promised basic rentals for all health workers. That way, nearly half the professionals get nothing, but those who get it don't get much either. When will the general 50 percent basic wage increase be made that trade unions demand? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-11-23-64	Thank you, Congressman. The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-23-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You quoted the OECD statement, and I think it would have been fair not only to bring this number pair, but also to show the extent to which there was a withdrawal in health care in the period before 2010, which turned around afterwards, not only to a reduced rate, but also to an excess of resources in health care. Why did you not quote this part of the OECD survey, which now represents additional source insurance instead of the previous withdrawal? That is precisely what it means, Mr President, that while the difference you referred to has increased in the previous period, the difference between the wages of Hungarian health workers and the wages of health workers in the better-favoured states of the OECD has been reduced. This has happened in several steps, and I see that it was not entirely accurate what you referred to these steps, so allow me to clarify them. After 2010, after a lump sum allowance each of the 95 thousand health professionals had a wage increase in 2013, on average 27 percent. This meant between 27,000 and 41,000 forints. This was the general wage increase that has reached everyone, and I would add that in addition to this, it has provided HUF 10-10 billion to GPs this year and next year, which represents HUF 130,000 in extra revenue per practice and month, totaling HUF 260 thousand. If I look at several years, it also provided additional funding for the wages of possible nurses working there. The previous one was, therefore, the one that was available to everyone, and this year the government really decided on another benefit. This year it will be HUF 5.3 billion, next year it will be HUF 12.8 billion. This meant the release of on-call fees, standby fees, overtime, shift allowances, which were previously frozen at the general wage increase, which meant that they also increased to such an extent. So those who work near the sickbed and who are there at night received a surplus, but there was also a general wage increase, which provided a 27 - percent surplus for the workers here. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Of course, we would like to continue this, because it is very necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-23-66	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Zsolt Legény, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture: "Is there a Chaos in the MVH?" It's an address. Congressman Zsolt Legányi should take the floor.
u2015-11-23-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Every day we receive a flood of complaints about the operation of the Agriculture and Rural Development Office. Real Hungarian farmers are dissatisfied with the operation of the MVH, mainly because bad operation has a negative impact on their activities and their everyday safety. Farmers find that the system of advance payments is in place. A lot of people didn't get a penny, especially milk producers. Mr. Secretary. They're not cashmen who've become fake farmers by training them. They are real small and family farmers, so every forint counts for them. Farmers find that the MVH's IT system is wrong. Therefore, for example, they are unable to apply properly for AKG and organic farming aid, which has now been published. They cannot exactly upload the required area to the system. The electronic interface of the MVH ignores the EU standard and does not allow any margin of error. Thus, genuine farmers do not take any risks because they cannot take the fine and pay back the aid. Finally, farmers appear to be excluded from AKG and organic farming subsidies. While they have done nothing in this area for years, they have now given real farmers less than 30 days to solve and apply for all documentation. This is almost impossible at the moment, especially when the MVH's electronic system is crawling with errors. [[12.50]] So I ask, for the sake of Hungarian farmers, for the sake of real small and family farmers, when will the chaos at MVH finally be brought to an end. Finally, an important question, Mr Secretary: who is responsible for the situation? Thank you in advance for your answers.
u2015-11-23-68	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State György Czerván.
u2015-11-23-69	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I find it very misleading what you have said about the operation of the MVH. Contrary to its claims, the MVH has started to pay advance payments for SAPS, greening and national milk aid and also to make reference to advances to the sheep and cattle farmers. A total of 70 202 applications have been paid in advance, with a total value of HUF 40.5 billion. As part of the dairy cow support, 77 percent of all applicants received HUF 11,3 billion in support, both small and large. We plan to give the right holders a total of HUF 130 billion in advance by 30 November. I would like to inform you that the process of final payments will be started from 1 December thereafter, including the lump sum payments of nearly 50,000 small producers. In total, the paying agency acts for more than 170 thousand producers, carrying out compulsory checks and payments in a pre-scheduled manner, with close deadlines, on the basis of relevant EU and domestic legislation, without discrimination. Mr President, with regard to the tendering of a kg, you have ignored the fact that it is not the competence of the FM. Nevertheless, I inform you that the Prime Minister's Office responsible for the case has decided to extend the deadline for the submission of applications until 31 December 2015, in view of the high number of interests and changes in the specifications of the calls for proposals, in agreement with the professional organisations. The MVH provides farmers with all the assistance they need to submit applications successfully. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-70	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, would like to ask the Minister of Agriculture:, Is the Chinese industrial import market deliberately covered by the government, or is the beekeeper's organisations more effective in controlling than the authorities themselves? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-23-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Two weeks ago, I asked Mr Secretary of State what they wanted to do about Chinese import honey, which is becoming increasingly present in Hungary, and what steps have been taken to filter this out. On the questions raised at the time, Minister of State responded that the government was doing everything it could to eliminate false honey, and even said that a hundred samples had been tested in foreign laboratories, specifically looking for products from companies supplying Chinese honey, and that they did not find them. You guys have screwed up again, Secretary of State, because after the beekeepers heard the tragic comedy you wanted to answer, they did the state's job themselves, and they had 19 honeys tested themselves. And do you know the result, Mr. Secretary? All 19 of the honeys tested contained Chinese additives, and 80 percent of them are industrial honey. That's what the Bremen lab found. The investigation was initiated by the Association of Beekeepers of Kaposvár and its Surroundings, and the samples were selected at random from the shelves of three chain stores. According to the Kaposvár association, there are about 150 trucks of poor quality honey coming to the Union each week, and the Hungarian beekeepers are also forced out. According to the organisation, these products are otherwise illegally on the shelves and are therefore also being prepared for a national demonstration on 12 December, which we support. After all this, the news that has recently been published is not so cheerful that Hungarian honey consumption is increasing and raises questions. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State to give a meaningful answer, not because of me, but because of the health of the 18 thousand beekeepers and the 10 million Hungarian citizens. Are they deliberately covering the Chinese import market, or are the civilians themselves more effective than you? Who lies, Mr. Secretary, and what interests are behind it? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-72	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, will answer the question. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-23-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Your question reveals that you have more misinformation on this matter, and that your question is full of mistakes and is not free from slippages. Unfortunately, the two minutes that I have at my disposal are not enough to clarify all your mistakes, so please allow me to answer only your most important questions. For years, the National Food Chain Safety Office has been particularly concerned with the control of honey and honey products. The National Association of Hungarian Beekeepers made available to Nébih the notaries that contained the data of the honey products tested by the interbranch organisation at the same time as last week's demonstration. On the basis of this information, pending the completion of the studies, the national chief veterinarian immediately ordered that the items concerned be withdrawn from the market. This is an example of how important the indications of interbranch organisations are, and it is also important for the organisations concerned to get the signals to the authority as quickly as possible, and, as the example shows, the authority will take action immediately after the signal. In view of the situation that has arisen, Nebih will closely monitor shipments of honey coming from outside the European Union, to which the Authority has also requested the contribution of the NAV. The Nébih has already discussed the honey forgery several times with the bee-keeping association last year. The determination of honey counterfeiting is a very complex process, a parameter cannot be assessed on its own, and this requires a complex examination of the results of sensory, analytical and microscopic tests, and this complex test process has also been introduced taking into account the proposals of the interbranch organisation. Dear Parliament, The government and the authority will continue to do everything in their power to preserve the reputation of the well-known Hungarian honey market, but it is also important that professional organisations turn to the authority as soon as possible in case of suspicion. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-74	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. It's up to Congressman.
u2015-11-23-75	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, By the end of the previous academic year, countless cases have shown that the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center is experiencing very serious payment difficulties. The LMP looked into the issue and found out that the school-supporting mammoth institution was practically bankrupt by the summer, as it ran into more than 10 billion dollars of debt. The human sector is the most indebted area anyway, the Ministry of Human Resources, according to the Hungarian Treasury, is currently sitting on a debt tip of more than 50 billion. At the beginning of this year's academic year, EMMI finally showed willingness to address the problem and announced that they would start reducing the debt of KLIK. A few days ago, the Ministry replied to LMP's question that the debt was now $8 billion. It would be good if this debt were finally eliminated, as promised, because even though it has decreased slightly, we still know of serious problems. Teachers don't get their rightful benefits, or they don't have money to buy school supplies, copy, mail. We've also intercepted a school district letter, where the school district asks schools not to be disturbed because of the delays in benefits, as soon as they receive the money from above, to be transferred. That is, let the teachers be silent, and do not even complain that they did not receive it in time, which is due to them according to the law, and which is indicated on the payout cards by referring to it. Dear Secretary of State, The problem remains, so LMP will ask the following questions again. What will the government do to resolve the serious financing crisis? How much resources do you use to help the KLIK? When will the debt be paid off? How do they compensate teachers who are late in receiving their benefits? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-11-23-76	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-23-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You asked these questions in writing about the same way, and you received the answers to them last week, but allow me to say them orally now. In recent years, KLIK has indeed taken a number of measures to reduce its external debt, which has decreased by 46 percent in two months, and the new organisational and operational regulations are precisely designed to reduce the internal organisational costs as much as possible. At the same time, it is important to say what you left in the dark, that the monthly wage payments of all teachers were in no doubt in any place, that everyone received their monthly salary, salary and wages from the teachers. [[13.00]] The problem you're saying is about paying for the various overwork. There is another procedure here, since this is not paid as regular wages, but these performances must be verified. A certificate of performance shall be completed. At the end of the month, you can only sum up exactly what time it was that individual workers or, more specifically, civil servants did. And if you sum that up, it's obviously a later reference. This delay of about a month gives many people the feeling that the KLIK is late with references. There may be other types, but most of the complaints received by KLIK are like this. The reason I can tell you this is because, after various news reports, obviously, the Ministry of Human Resources has also requested information from the Klebelsberg Institutional Support Center, and we have received information that most of the complaints are generally related to this. At the same time, I would add that since the legislation here has not changed, this kind of mechanism and, obviously, this kind of problem or, where appropriate, misunderstanding has occurred even during the municipal maintenance period. In the same way, after certificates of performance, these benefits could only be paid, not on a monthly basis, but once or several times a year. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-23-78	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Tukacs, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister's Office:. When can the Andrássy Castle in Tiszadob be visited? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-23-79	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, You must know the beautiful place in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County called Tiszadob and the monument that is the beautiful Andrássy Castle. This place, which has often hosted various artistic events, has matured over time to be renovated. The Andrássy Castle has also been renewed from around 1.7 billion European Union funds, and, as can be seen on the castle's website, the renovation works have been completed in mid-2014. Of course, people in this county should be happy. You should be glad that there is a beautiful castle, and you should be happy to have a home again for all the events we are very proud of. However, there is another information on this particular website that says that the castle cannot be visited until certain permits are obtained. This means, therefore, that between the summer of 2014 and almost full of 2015, certain permits could not be obtained for visitors to see, and the organizers could organize events to show this beautiful place. Dear Minister, My question is, what kind of permits can't be obtained in a year and a half in our country. And, of course, to see how the accelerations in the administration that you often talk about appear in reality, if that still fails in the case of Andrássy Castle. So, very briefly, my question is when this place can be visited, and after the local people's language considers that you have had an unpleasant experience in visiting this castle, if only the people's language knows it, then excuse me, if it is true, then you could personally feel the problem for us. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-11-23-80	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question is answered by Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. I give you the floor, Minister.
u2015-11-23-81	Honourable Parliament! Ladies and gentlemen, The local folk language always knows everything better than they were meant to. I really tried to get into the building, which I assumed was that if the Hungarian state and the Hungarian taxpayers put together with the European taxpayers to spend almost 2 billion forints on it, we are doing so that it can be visited. However, I hit the gates, which prevent others from looking at the building, not just me. On 30 June 2014, the investment was closed without the social and child protection DG having any money or concept of what to do with the completed renovation. This is a very warning sign for the future as regards the protection of monuments and the renovation of buildings. I've initiated that we take over the building, operate the Forster Memorial Center, and open it immediately. In government language, that may mean this year at once. The investment ended financially with 15 September, and will open its doors later this year. The National Director General of Monument Protection will be forced to place his neck on this, in the sense that I consider it a matter of competence, so that the Hungarian State can immediately take possession of this for residents and interested parties. Do this because the two minutes are short, but it is one of Hungary's most exciting monuments, not only because of the designer, Artúr Meinig, but also because of the builder's older and younger Andrássy. In this House, as Members of Parliament, we can also mention the names of our predecessors, as prime ministers. But that is not why I bring it up, but rather because Gyula Andrássy Jr., as one of the largest organizers of Hungarian art before the First World War, created one of the most exciting, valuable and prestigious Hungarian art collections, the Hungarian branch of which was placed in this building. Stakeholders know how Rippl-Rónai or Munkácsy connects to the family, so this building deserves more than it is in its condition. I can guarantee you that you will get this. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-23-82	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. When will the government make a substantial contribution to overcoming the unprecedented price explosion in the rental market? It's an address. Mr András Tállai, Minister of State, representing Minister of National Economy Mihály Varga, who is responsible for the subject, will answer the question on behalf of Prime Minister. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-23-83	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In the last year, rent prices have increased by 40-60 percent in the downtown of Budapest, but also by 25 percent in the country. In view of the fact that the rent of the apartments has increased on average by 1-2 percent per year since 2011, this increase is extremely high. This situation is particularly worrying for young people and students in higher education, as this situation is even more characteristic in Budapest and rural cities, which are major university centres. Under these circumstances, students who have not been admitted to college face serious trials. Their spending on housing alone consumes or exceeds their monthly financial envelope. And then we didn't even talk about the amount of study costs and daily self-preservation expenses. One of the key causes of emigration figures reaching record levels is, among other things, housing uncertainty, which is due, for example, to an increase in rent prices. Today, a large proportion of young people have no opportunity to rent apartments at a price that would allow them to start their own lives, to start a family. It is therefore clear that this problem is important not only for further education but also for employment and childbearing. Although there have been attempts on your part with regard to the benefits of home creation, it is clear that they have not achieved the desired results. Jobbik has initiated it many times and has developed its rental-building programme in a concrete package, which would serve to stop the emigration wave and increase child-bearing willingness at the same time. In this situation, it should also not be said that there are huge amounts of vacant flats that could be a good opportunity for young people in terms of reduced housing. In addition, many international examples can be presented from Barcelona to the United States on how to remedy the housing crisis and the extraordinarily high rent prices. In the light of all of this, I ask when the government will finally make a substantial contribution to overcoming the unprecedented price explosion in the rent market. Why hasn't Jobbik launched a tenant-building programme so far been supported? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-84	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will answer the question. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-23-85	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First, I would like to talk about the steps the government has taken to make housing easier for families, and of course it affects those who live in apartments, so they rent the apartment they live in. The first serious step was the creation of a reduction in rent, which leaves HUF 300-340 billion a year in the pocket of Hungarian families. It is important to highlight these and to separate those involved in higher education from their support. After all, there are some 14 800 seats in the budget of higher education for college and university students, and the government spends a total of HUF 9.2 billion on three types of support. These are for dormitory, housing support and support for student housing. But it is true that the problem you have raised is true. [[13.10]] Indeed, an assessment of the situation shows that rents have increased significantly. Of course, this moves in conjunction with housing and real estate prices, as after the crisis the real estate appreciation started, and thus higher housing prices follow higher rent rates. It is true that there is a need for a thorough analysis of the situation in which the reasons for this need to be examined at national level. As you said, the capital stands out, and especially in the capital, rents for the tourist zone. This year, the government will discuss ways of facilitating housing construction, discussing the possibility of reducing the VAT on housing and other forms of support. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] This will also affect the situation of rented apartments. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-11-23-86	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture:. What is the balance of state auctions so far? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2015-11-23-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Last week, despite the protests of LMP and other opposition parties, an auction of more than three hectares of state land was launched. It is worth looking at how they went down, as the stakes are not small, forints 400 billion, public land ownership will be thrown out by mid-December. With this step, the Fidesz government will radically reduce the presence of the Hungarian state on the land market, thereby depriveing the following governments of the opportunity to directly influence rural employment through state land. Fidesz simply throws the reins into the horses. It has the spirit of the government, but there are questions about public land privatisation based on the experience of the first week's auctions, to which we are waiting for an answer. It was quite a mixed success, because the land licenses were carried out all over the country. On the second day, for example, he was no longer interested in lands rented by a company belonging to Lajos Simicska's interest in Győr-Moson-Sopron County. The most valuable of the auction fields was a 46-hectare area, for which the bid would have started from nearly 112 million forints, because you believe that all Hungarian farmers have that kind of money. Is there a survey in the Ministry of Agriculture about whether farmers had a chance against moneymen? Will there be any employment, rural development interest in the auctions? How many of the three hectares of land were sold? How many places were there a substantial bid? How many were sold at the starting price? What will be the fate of unsold lands? I also ask: are the press announcements that some auction notices contain false data that contradict the real situation of the land? Thank you in advance for your reply.
u2015-11-23-88	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Márton Bitay will answer the question of his representatives. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-23-89	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You asked me a lot of questions in two minutes, I'll try to answer. One of them is that I think that the land sale program, the land for farmers, is very successful. About 60 to 70 percent of the land is sold. There are areas where 4-5-6 people bid on an area, there are areas where they do not bid, as it was found out in the previous issue, and there are areas where only 1-2 people bid. However, I would like to mention a few more things, some facts to you, and then I would like to highlight some important things. A total of 237 properties have been sold for more than HUF 6 billion, and 6300 calls for applications and sales have been published for less than 3 hectares. We have sold almost 7,000 of these since the beginning of the year, so we are talking about a successful programme. That there are areas where they do not apply, the reason why there is a small sham on the part of the LMP is because when it should have been voted to pay a market rent for the land that you are renting, you did not vote for it. As a result, it is really possible that there will be land that would otherwise have been applied for or wanted to be applied for, but they will no longer be able to use this option in connection with the opposition anti-farming league. That the land is too expensive or too cheap: in Hungary, all agricultural land is expensive in my opinion, but it has to be managed responsibly with the state's wealth, so we have to get the best price out of it if we want to sell it, and therefore it is very important to have a loan programme where each customer can borrow up to HUF 300 million. I ask that you support this programme and support the government's efforts to enable as many family farms as possible to buy agricultural land in Hungary. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-23-90	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Justice:. Why do you make it difficult for civil society organisations to operate with a multitude of new administrative obstacles and a series of misconducts? It's an address. Congressman István Szávay has the floor.
u2015-11-23-91	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Today, tens of thousands of NGOs are registered in Hungary, the vast majority of which contribute to strengthening local communities in Hungary through their voluntary work. These organisations perform predominantly tasks for which the state or the municipalities often lose their strength, time or way. Unfortunately, however, the Hungarian State keeps these organisations under constant administrative pressure, often expressing obligations that are costing a great deal of money in the absence of competence, while, by the way, the control infrastructure is operating quite slowly by the State and, as a result, these organisations are often put in an impossible position. If I were to mention just one example, I would like to highlight the procedure for classification as a public benefit, which did not, in one case, last 10-12 months, Mr Secretary of State, and after which hundreds of associations and foundations lost this rating with retroactive effect, and the NAV held back the 1 percent offerings for many months. Jobbik pointed out this once before, then the government changed the rules for offering 1 percent by fire, but unfortunately it did not help many. Therefore, we still do not see a concept in the thought of regulation, nor in the development of the resources of supervisory bodies, courts or NAV. On the basis of the above, I ask the Secretary of State: when will we get to the point where a change in the officials of a foundation or an association will not take more than 15 days? When does the search engine for birosag.hu's civil society organisations really work as a public source? Why do we still have to wait weeks to get the content of the final orders? When will the application for registration be completed in 60, 90 or even 120 days instead of 30 days? Does the government provide additional resources for organisations with a low budget, which have spent 10-20 percent of their budget on Ptk? and amend their basic documents in accordance with the provisions of civil law? Finally, please reassure the people concerned that the rumors that it is all over again, or with a new framework law, are not true. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] they want to adapt the legislative context for civil society organisations. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-92	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Pál Völner will answer the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-23-93	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Member is talking about administrative pressure, and it makes it feel as if the government or the legal environment has unduly hindered it, making civil society organisations more difficult. To do that, it's just the new Ptk. in connection with its entry into force, the instruments of incorporation and the functioning of all legal persons must be adapted to the law. They received a year for this, two years in the case of civil society organisations, which will expire on 15 March next year. So it's a fairer deadline. In 2015 the National Cooperation Fund allocated nearly HUF 2.5 billion to operational purposes among more than 3 thousand civil society organisations, which was HUF 800 million more than the previous year. In relation to public credibility: the register of non-civil society and other non-companies, the national register is public-credited, this is stated by the Civil Recording Act, and anyone can access the data via the Internet. The Minister, the Ministry, has no authority as regards questions concerning other case-law issues, but the main objective of the Ministry of Justice's work is to strengthen public confidence in the judiciary. This can mainly be influenced by legislation. Good justice begins with good lawmaking, so I can reassure Mr President that if we identify a problem that can be solved by means of law, we are ready to solve it at all times with good legislation. This could primarily aim to modernise the legislative environment, to re-shape concepts that do not live together properly, to re-shape legal institutions and to simplify the legal environment for the exercise of fundamental rights to the merger. [[13.20]] So, overall, we can say that the government is doing everything in its power to continue to assist civil society organisations. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-94	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, would you like to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question: It's an address. Mr László György Lukács has the floor.
u2015-11-23-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Ensuring the replacement of doctors on the backbone of the health system and minimizing the reduction of their number is a vital and perhaps all-social interest, and it must therefore be of particular importance to society and the government. That's why it's a luxury, perhaps, the way the government has been dealing with residents and residents' demands for the past few weeks. But let's see what the demands of the residents are, and what are the problems around which their problems can be grouped! Work done without specialist supervision is the first. In this case, a lot of reports have been made about the fact that, without the supervision of a specialist, residents themselves carry out on-call work either in emergency or in other serious places, which may raise not only labour law concerns, but also, where appropriate, concerns about criminal but civil liability, and is very exploitative to do such work, as they should learn or learn the profession for the time being, and not to carry out a task that would be the task of the specialist. As a second such problem, it is possible to mention that many people did not receive their fee for entry, so they were not paid the residency allowance which they would otherwise be entitled to in the event of their participation in Hungarian residency training, and which would otherwise prevent them from leaving the country. The third problem was the case of unlawful contracts, which consisted in the fact that by the end of August, early September, the contracts that would have served their employment had not yet been concluded. Thus, almost a month or, in many cases, more than a month was completed without otherwise a backup contract for which they could otherwise have taken up their wages. At present, the negotiations have been announced that they are negotiating with the Ministry of Health, and that residents are willing to go to the office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, but they are also preparing to strike to open up their claims. In view of all this, I ask the Secretary of State: how long will you allow the conditions to deteriorate with regard to the residents, and the strike is really the only element that can put pressure on you? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-96	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-23-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I will try to answer everything you said, the most important thing is that, of course, discussions with the Hungarian Residents Association are ongoing in the Ministry on all issues, including those raised by you. What is meant by the participation of residents in on-call, is stipulated by law that when they can do what they can do here, they are not allowed to pay attention in the first six months, then they can be supervised personally until the end of the second year, and from the third year they can take care of themselves that a specialist must be permanently available on the telephone; on the one hand, in order to be able to speak clearly, to consult, and on the other hand, to be able to be invited by the specialist. There is this gradual process of developing all the competences needed in the residents to carry out independent activities, which is why there are three phases in this. As regards the residency aid scheme, honourable Member, you know that this government launched the residency scheme in 2011. This can amount to HUF 100,000 net for residents, and we have launched a new program for young specialists as a follow-up. What had changed in relation to the wages of residents was precisely to eliminate a problem, because in many cases, residents were not admitted to hospitals because they had no money or others feared for their status. Several residents cost the hospital more money with the state adding an extra 100,000 HUF net salary. That is why we told them not to be hired by hospitals, but to be employed by a central medical background institution, and that is how they get the benefit that could be net HUF 275,000 without over-work fees, on-call fees and standby fees. Well, this institution hires it, and from now on, the hospital has no interest in hiring as many residents as possible, because it doesn't charge residents from his budget, so the residency fee so far stays there, but the state takes over their application completely. Since this measure was very popular for the government, almost all health service providers stormed our background institution at the same time, which is why there was a disruption at the start, but now, as you referred to it, the order has been established, the contracts have been concluded, and now you get your increased allowance from the hospital, not the hospital, but directly from the medical background. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-98	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister:. Why is the Prime Minister Commissioner responsible for the national consultation on the Internet refusing to consult Jobbik on the possibilities of introducing free internet? It's an address. On behalf of Prime Minister Csaba Dömötör, Minister of State, acting on behalf of the Minister of the Cabinet Office of Prime Minister Antal Rogán, who is competent and competent on the subject, will answer the question. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-23-99	Dear Secretary of State, Because of Tamás Deutsch's insubordination and lack of office, the consultation on the free internet has failed. Jobbik initiated a consultation on freeing the basic internet with Tamás Deutsch as prime minister responsible for the consultation on the Internet in July, because he, even though he had set the date of the meeting in response to 5 August, cancelled the meeting on the basis of his last-minute job accumulation. After that, he referred to his long freedom, or to his refusal to consult Jobbik, only the Economic Committee of Parliament, which he referred to two months ago, to which nothing was essentially happening. Jobbik considers it incorrect that, despite its earlier promise, the prime minister responsible for the consultation will not consult in the system of widely mentioned national cooperation. He added that he is now proposing a debauched version of Jobbik's proposals, with no prior consultation, just as in the case of the Internet tax, prior social debate. Moreover, the government's dilapidation is not only uncredited but also unprofessional, but there is no time to address this issue now. Since contracts were concluded for the consultation on the Internet with a record VAT envelope of HUF 113 million, a consultation with an interested parliamentary party should have been carried out, which collected 200,000 signatures for the free use of the basic internet. In the Communication of the Governmental Information Centre, this was the untruth: the President of Novak claims to be untrue when, according to his information, today, at 14 o'clock on 13 November 2015, Prime Minister Tamás Deutsch accepted his invitation to a personal consultation on the introduction of the free internet. Well, Honourable Parliament, I did not actually claim that the politician of Fidesz would be present at that press event, and our press department only accepted the invitation of President Novak, Vice-President of Jobbik, for a personal consultation on the introduction of the free internet. Tamás Deutsch's message of proof was therefore published on my Facebook page, and due to unfounded accusations, I take legal redress. I look forward to Mr. Secretary of State's correct and meaningful reaction. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-100	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-23-101	Honourable Congressman, I am not competent in difficult time-setting matters, but allow me to report on developments with InternetCon in response to your question. It is an important achievement that tens of thousands have participated in the Internet consultation, which has become one of Europe's unique initiatives. Thank you for all those who have proposed a question, answered the online questionnaire or gave their views in any other form. I hope you've done the same. He could have expressed his opinion at the dozens of public conferences where professional organisations participated, and anyone could have said their opinion and made suggestions. As far as the rest is concerned, the Minister for Consultation will indeed inform the parliamentary parties at a next meeting of the Economic Committee. All we can say above all is that the results are clear: Hungarian people want a cheaper, super-fast internet that helps them in everyday life and is accessible wherever possible. Based on the results of the consultation, on the basis of these results, the Prime Minister's Commissioner proposes a number of measures for the government. Among these are the reduction of the VAT on the Internet and the development of wifi in the Hungarian settlements. It will also propose the development of the online public administration, so the renewal of the hungary.hu website will not be delayed either. We also consider it important to give more emphasis to protecting children, and there is a need for a new comprehensive digital public education strategy. The simplest way to sum this up is that creating digital well-being is one of the most important tasks of the coming years, and we could say that without digital well-being, civil settlement cannot be complete. [[13.30]] These are goals that, in addition to the many times in life, you and the representatives of your party can support with a calm heart. Thank you for your attention. [[First of Novak: Now let's hear the answer. A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-102	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, It's 1:29 p.m. to discuss immediate questions. Dear Parliament, László Kiss, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. When does the EMMI do its job? It's an address. Mr László Kiss has the floor.
u2015-11-23-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, For a long time, the MSZP has had an argument with the government about whether the waterhead that you have created for the management of public education makes sense. We see that there is none, and the facts prove it. KLIK's debt has increased enormously, and although some part of it has actually been reduced in the summer, it can be said that the functioning of public education is still threatened by the KLIK's billion-dollar debt. Whatever you're saying here, it's a fact that you constantly owe hundreds, thousands of teachers textbooks, graduation allowances, reimbursement of expenses and payment of jubilee bonuses. These debts are not only in our country, Obuda, but in the whole country. There are still significant problems with the now debuting pedagogical self-evaluation system, against which much of the schools protest. There are still problems with textbooks of fluctuating quality, prepared on the basis of the new curriculum, quickly prepared curricula, some of which have been approved in separate procedures, and then, because of the specific procedures, let's say, they have not been replaced by new, better, more modern textbooks after the preparation of textbooks of a non-comprehensive quality. There's a list of problems. It could also be said that the situation of permanent textbooks remains unsolved. It remains unsolved for students to learn from e-books. The role of workbooks in the authorisation procedure for long-term textbooks remains unsolvable. Answer me, please, Minister, what kind of solutions you have.
u2015-11-23-104	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Zoltán Balog to answer. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-11-23-105	Congressman! Mr. President. Dear House, We never claimed that the most effective system in the world was created when we had to put in place the fragmented public education system that we inherited in 2010. Without putting the blame on anyone, perhaps we can agree that what was then was not good. There has been a serious professional debate, also in support of your circles, that that kind of fragmentation is not appropriate for the operation of public education, partly because the system is not uniform, partly because the funding anomalies were enormous at that time. There was a lack of uniform accountability, let us say: a system of school supervision, which we have just introduced. Indeed, if you begin to transform a system, especially one of these, the whole territory of the country, and in fact you could say that all the systems affecting Hungarian citizens, and in this you try to have some kind of centralization, then this may have problems and shortcomings. Nor have we ever concealed the need for internal correction. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Just from the beginning of the last month, the new organizational and operational regulations have been in place which will deal with the partly legitimate objections you have made. Although in this set, it's kind of hard to understand what you're saying. Because if we're talking about textbooks, so I can take a specific example of what you said, and you want a permanent textbook, then why are you waiting for us to rewrite the textbooks and rewrite them slower? I mean, when we have experimental textbooks, and we've undertaken to introduce these textbooks experimentally for three years, then obviously we're not going to print durable textbooks, because then they should be thrown out. It'll be a permanent textbook when the books are final. Indeed, after the experimental phase, correction of errors, it makes sense to do a durable textbook. So these two things contradicted each other in the excuses. Don't forget that every teacher gets paid at the right time, and he's been paid a raise since we've been in government. This was not the case in your time. The allowances you are talking about are prolonged and will be paid when the settlement is completed. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-106	Thank you, Minister Balog. I salute my fellow Members. I'll give you a return answer. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-107	Thank you, Mr. President. It is true that most people may get paid [[Zoltán Balog: Everyone gets it!]] I would like to note, however, that the state does not exercise favor by paying teachers in time, who have been teaching for 30 years, after the jubilee degree, or even the graduation allowance, or even other allowances, that is the same thing for teachers. It could be described as a veterinary horse in the same way as almost all the measures you have introduced. This is the everyday exercise you prescribe, but there is a lack of gymnasiums and gym teachers; the CLIK, which ensures state chaos in the system, but today the extremes between two schools are the same as before, and you have tried to eliminate it. What we see is that they actually started building a system several years ago, but in this system, it's chaos that keeps growing. I want you to eliminate this chaos and finally focus on education.
u2015-11-23-108	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder also applies to Minister Balog.
u2015-11-23-109	I would like to point out that all teachers will receive their salary on time, and that was 40 percent more than in August 2013. I think it's a result. If you observe it, now in the context of wage increases in higher education, university workers object to the fact that high school teachers now make more money than some university teachers do. So we're gonna move on with the payroll. Of course, the stipends are not a favor, and I wouldn't have thought of that, but after we've settled the performance certificates, we'll be able to give it to the teachers. Perhaps you have received the news that by the end of the year, Klebelsberg Institutional Support Center received HUF 26.7 billion to settle matters that are not yet settled. When vocational training is taken over, we can establish a budget, a long-term and otherwise effective, well-functioning budget that will take account of the diversity of vocational training and public education. Then the KLIK budget will also cover the numbers needed for public education in one year. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-110	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Why does Viktor Orbán's friends always take the greasy public and municipal shops, because of what coincidence? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-11-23-111	Mr President, I would like to wait for the Prime Minister because of the importance of this question. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-23-112	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. The Minister has appointed Mr Bitay Márton as Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the sign of Hungarian Zoltán:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman Zoltán Magyar.
u2015-11-23-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, For a week, the auctions on which the government plays the last of its national assets, namely the state-owned land. We expected many things from the opposition, since we knew that this auction was not aimless. By the way, we have demonstrated in a debate day and in several speeches that there may be intentions here that government interests, or your oligarchs, will have access to large pieces of state land. But to tell you the truth, even I didn't expect you to go beyond that and try to do the auctions on the basis of documents that contain false data. Last week, the news exploded that there were more land that was shown to applicants at the time of publication than was otherwise included in the land office data. We would very much like to know what intentions are behind it and whether the government has taken the necessary steps in the past few days. [[13.40]] In short, we demand that all such applications be thoroughly reviewed and compared with the data on the ownership sheet. It is amazing, however, that they offer properties worth up to HUF 100-150 million to be sold while the sign contains lies. Who could be interested, Mr Secretary, in showing leases that expired 20 years later, offering these areas for sale, while, clearly, close interest groups of governments are being placed on these public areas that were literally being excluded from their previous communication and were trying to ensure the livelihood of locally-owned family farmers? Compared to this, what we see today is that, technically, they've derailed government land sales to the level of a gang war. Of course, Jobbik will continue to be interested in local family farmers farming these areas, and we will refuse to try to trick them with all kinds of data counterfeiting and then get the territories to their own friends. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-114	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs.
u2015-11-23-115	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'm pretty confused about the question you're asking, because you're showing a level of lack of information that's already hurtful, especially after you've been making your statement on land affairs for years. If you were prepared, you would know precisely that the land use register can contain data that is currently in force. If the National Land Fund Manager offers a property for sale, for the moment someone is the user, but there is someone who has already won it, there is someone who will take possession of the contents of his contract in 2016, in 2017, please tell me where to make it appear. I can only put it in the notice. What I can do is that he's a nice customer, if you'd like to buy, then pay attention, because there's a landowner here, and this landowner's gonna pay that much. After the new buyer buys or has to use the land under the terms of the new land lease contract, if he does not want it, the relevant data is obviously relevant to him, which is in fact in life. The land use register records the current state of play, but does not apply to the conditions under which a person has obtained the right to use these land in 16 or 17 years. So, my dear Member, this is not unique at all, that in the land use register - and I would like to put it this way not to hurt you - data that is not yet in force, which does not lead to it, data that only applies to it. But there are areas where the buyer is not interested in the current data, but in the future. Otherwise, in any case, in the National Land Fund Management County Office, all contracts can be viewed, in all areas covered by notices, any information that may have been omitted from the notice or felt important by the buyer can be contacted personally. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-116	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-11-23-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. More than that, there is little evidence of the government's intention, because if it were real farmers who, I stress, are now talking about larger areas, it would obviously be of no interest to them at all if they knew, they would know that, otherwise, there are still 20-30-year-old season tickets on these land. Clearly, when they claim that the land will finally be owned by the man who is cultivating it, they will lie, for these lands will now be in the hands of people who will certainly not be able to use these areas. So all that's left is to say the same thing again, so that until the circumstances are cleared, at least stop the ground privatisation. You promised that it would not fall into the hands of foreigners - they later amended the regulation themselves, that it would certainly be possible for foreigners to buy land. We're talking about 100-150-180 million forints of land when they're sold - which local family farmer currently has that kind of money? Answer these questions, Mr. Secretary, and stop this robbery immediately. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-118	Thank you. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2015-11-23-119	Dear Congressman, And I'd like to ask you what Jobbik's purpose is. They tried to prevent foreigners from buying by their Constitutional Court pleadings. and should be included in the auction notice. We did it. Congratulations to you. They didn't vote for the rent increase, which would have been a good thing for more people to apply to the fields you're criticizing right now. Congratulations on that. And now they're finding bureaucratic rules that only you don't recognize, by the way, because anyone who is a real farmer knows exactly what's in the land use register and what's not. And then you stand up and tell me you can rent land for a hundred million dollars? Dear Congressman, Nobody. That's why there's a 300 million forint loan that everyone who's taking part in the auction can take. They're talking nonsense, representing capitalists we can't identify with. We want to give priority to family farms [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Which families?]] And for them we have written out these lands, we hope that they will buy them. As in the previous week, 237 parts of the land worth HUF 6 billion have already been found. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-120	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Benedek Sallai and Erzsébet Schmuck, representatives of the LMP, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Under the government of Fidesz, will Hungarian land be taken into foreign hands? It's an address. The Prime Minister has appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, to respond to his urgent public task. I ask the congresswoman if she accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-11-23-121	We'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-23-122	Thank you. The Prime Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Mrs Bernadett Szél, Member of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Why does the government spend hundreds of billions on a questionable nuclear power plant investment? It's an address. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind has the floor.
u2015-11-23-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, In 2014, they said that you and Brussels had all the arrangements, and that everything was all right. Today, we see that everything is not, and in fact, as the days pass, we see more of it. The fuel supply contract had to be broken down and rewritten, you completely backed down and accepted everything the European Union asked for, such as the fact that spent fuel can no longer be returned to Russia, but the question is what will happen to them unless you want to turn Hungary into a nuclear cemetery. Since then, two infringement proceedings have been opened, one of which was published last week that by circumventing the procurement rules, you can expect to explain yourself and then who knows what the fate of this project will be. Today, it has become public that the European Union has also launched infringement proceedings for illegal state aid. In my opinion, they will even have problems encrypting environmental information. Look, there's actually nothing unexpected going on, and from the beginning, the May Other Politics has opposed the Paks expansion, every penny of taxpayers' money spent on it, we consider it harmful and bad. And now we can see, it's possible that the end result will be to briefly put it back to the whole, the project cannot be implemented. And that also means that it will cost you billions of forints, which are already being spent, because I would remind you that 28 billion are already in the budget, 113 billion were added next year, starting with the expansion of the OAH capacity, there are a lot of additional costs that taxpayers are already paying for this project. My question is whether the credit has been touched or not, what we see is in the budget. The reason I am asking you this, Minister, is because as many government actors as there are so many vague answers to this question, so I would like to know from you that the credit that is available is only the music of the future to touch it or to have something drawn from it, or to say that it is happening right now, to say that the credit is coming towards Hungary. Please give me an exact answer on this.
u2015-11-23-124	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-11-23-125	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Mr. President, Thank you again for the opportunity to account for the stage in which the Paks capacity expansion is now and which stage the debate is at. I am bringing this here because, over the next year and a half, Parliament may be preparing to hear about debates on a regular basis; while we agree on one issue, there are further situations to be clarified on two or three issues. I'd like to reassure the Parliament, Paks goes first. In this spirit, the European Commission adopted our proposal on fuel procurement and technical nodification, and on 14 January 2014, President Barroso signed an agreement on nuclear energy cooperation between Hungary and Russia with the Russians. Another issue is that the spending of EUR 12 billion was close, very close and visible. Therefore, the European Commission, as a representative of the European market, seeks to ensure a level playing field for all large European companies. [[13.50]] In this context, the European Commission calls for compliance with European competition rules, in order to ensure that there is no prohibited state aid on the programme, in Hungarian: companies investing here do not receive extra support from the Hungarian State, and everyone has the same market conditions for access, and that the programme itself stands on its own feet, no extra state aid is needed. I would like to reassure you that so far the European Commission has found nothing to document that it is a prohibited state aid. I would also like to inform the Parliament that it is in the interests of the Hungarian Government, the Hungarian legislature and Hungary to have competition. We have agreed in the agreement with the Russians that at least 60% of procurements are open public procurement and open competition. This tender is in progress. It is no wonder that the European Commission has started to inquire, and I think that as a housemaker for European companies, it is not the first time, and not the first case. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-126	Thank you, Minister. You have the opportunity to rejoin the congresswoman.
u2015-11-23-127	Dear Minister, I hope that you will answer my question now, because the fact that the credit was drawn at a reasonable distance still cannot clearly tell me that you were called off or not called off or already billed, the account is coming, what about the credit at the time at all. You'll have a minute, please, to clarify that, because otherwise, I'll think that there's something you guys are making a fuss about. I have one thing to say about the European Commission: this nuclear power plant must be able to operate in an EU space, and it is important from now on that the European Commission approves all the essential points, so as many of you have approached or tried to consult the European Commission, so many times you have received a red card, it is that simple. I envy your hurrah-optimism, although I would be so optimistic about what Hungary's future would be if this huge loan had to be given to Hungarian tax-paying citizens. And the other is that I still don't know exactly what will happen to all the fuel we're going to use in this nuclear power plant, where they're going to put it. And my third question is, when and with whom exactly this 60% has been discussed, because we've heard about 40 percent, not 60 percent yet.
u2015-11-23-128	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Minister shall also have a rejoinder.
u2015-11-23-129	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I see for now the support of the LMP that the great responsibility for repaying the loan has not yet threatened you. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett, we're taxpayers.]] So you don't have to think about how you're going to arrange to repay the loan. From the project, of course. The loan has not been drawn, a single forint has not been drawn, I would like to tell you. So far, Hungary has had two substantive debates with the European Commission: one issue is technical notification and the other is the transport of fuel. We have both reached a compromise, and we have both had joint success - we have done this because Hungary is also a reliable partner, an open partner in this matter, and we agree on all issues, as is the case with the investigation of illegal state aid and the examination of procurement rules. We are at the European Commission's disposal, and I am quite sure that a good solution will be found, which will also affect large European companies and the economy - beneficially. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-130	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, Dénes Galambos, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. What does the Hungarian Government do to make Hungary the leading country of Central Europe in the development and deployment of electric transport? It's an address. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the Secretary of State, Mr András Tállai, appointed by the Minister for his reply. [[For signal:]] He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Dénes Pigeon.
u2015-11-23-131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ányos Jedlik, an inventor born 215 years ago, natural scientist, educator of the 19th century. It was an outstanding figure of the century, who not only kept pace with the progress of European science, but also prevented it in many cases, for example in the field of electronics. The Hungarian Government is also doing a similar experiment by adopting the Jedlik Ányos plan and related to it in 1487/2015. a government decision inviting the Minister of National Economy, the Minister for National Development and the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office to prepare further developments and legislative changes concerning electric motoring in the context of the legislative tasks covered by the plan. This decision is a unique success in Central Europe, as Hungary has managed to produce a comprehensive and coherent strategic document among the first. The aim is to create conditions for e-mobility and electric driving in Hungary. First of all, we wish to join the countries that promote electromobility, whether it be the production of vehicles or the development of service infrastructure. These areas are also a priority for us in the Danube region; we have taken the initial steps. We can already be there among the 150 lightning filling locations to be set up in the first round with our filling station, inaugurated by Minister Mihály Varga in the framework of the week of science organised by the Dunaújváros College on 11 November 2015. It can therefore be said that the world of rural Hungary, Dunaújváros and its area are now accessible to electric cars. I ask the Secretary of State what additional measures are being taken to support e-mobility. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-132	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-11-23-133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, As you said, the Ministry of National Economy developed the Jedlik Ányos Plan, which was adopted by the government in a government decision on 21 July this year, and, as you mentioned, Hungary is the first country in the Central European region to adopt such a comprehensive concept. We believe that this can be seen as a significant international success. In the meantime, the implementation of the Action Plan has also begun. 25 percent of the revenue from the sale of the CO2 quota will serve these purposes, i.e. the development and development of the electromobility infrastructure. This year, around HUF 7 billion is available in the budget, of which we plan to build some 150 lightning filling equipment, mainly along motorways and in county-righted cities, so that the whole country can easily get around with such cars. At the same time, legislation is also being developed to encourage the use of environmentally sound vehicles, such as legislation already allows for a much cheaper and faster charging point to be established under the simplified authorisation procedure compared to the rules in force. The government has also declared the administrative procedures for chargers installed under the Jedlik Ányos Plan a priority issue. We are also trying to encourage the uptake of such cars through taxation, since there is no need to pay a car purchase levy or a car tax on these vehicles, but other advantages also encourage the roll-out of vehicles. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-134	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Pigeon has the right to a rejoinder.
u2015-11-23-135	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply, and thank you for the commitment of the Government and the Ministry to the expansion and expansion of electric motoring in Hungary. Allow me to congratulate you on last Friday's conference on electromobility in the European Union, organised by the Ministry, at which our President of the Republic gave a speech, and the Eastern Central European countries represented themselves at the highest possible level of government and diplomaticism, as well as the producers involved in electric motoring, who, without exception, delegated their top managers. I would also like to point out that it is not only due to environmental considerations that electric transport should be encouraged in Hungary, but also because it is in our country's economic interest that as many Hungarian research workshops and small and medium-sized enterprises participate in the development of electric vehicles; the Dunaújváros College is also behind this action. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-136	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State shall also have a rejoinder.
u2015-11-23-137	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to continue with the incentives that the government has already introduced and plans to introduce. Since September 2015, green registration numbers have been available for environmentally sound vehicles. The government is looking at the possibility that these cars can use the bus lane and travel during a possible smogri tax, so they don't have to keep them in the garage. On 20 November 2015, there was indeed a large international conference in Hungary, where the neighbouring countries acknowledged Hungary's achievements so far and promised to join and follow Hungary's path. [[14.00]] In addition, a family day helped to get to know and spread electric cars. I believe that Hungarian reforms also work in the introduction of electric cars. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Can the papals count on you, Prime Minister?" It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I ask Congressman Haughty if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-11-23-139	I'd like to wait for the Prime Minister.
u2015-11-23-140	He'll wait. Thank you very much. The Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Gőgös, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:, Mintazdaság Mezőhegyes, but how? It's an address. It is for Congressman Zoltán Haughty to take the floor.
u2015-11-23-141	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I shouldn't have told you this question if you'd come to the demonstration yesterday, which I specifically invited you to do, to talk to people there, to see what the future of this settlement would be; not the company, but the settlement. Therefore, I think that, if we know, we should discuss here, about how they see the model economy that will be the riding company. It's created on its foundations. Is this where measures are planned that can save the current agricultural culture there? The problem is that the scattered area that has remained there, so what is left of the larger unit that they have been working on for a very long time, is not suitable for this, so it is not suitable for seed production - because it requires very serious isolation distances - we believe it is not suitable for the maintenance of livestock, which is the real employment of these two sectors in Mezőhegyes, whether active or temporary. I had a little feeling when I saw that this field-heaven story started, as if the Basilica were to be torn apart, Minister, so that someone could get access to the titled Esterházy brick. So I think this company was as good as it was. It is possible to argue whether or not it had to be privatized, it could be renationalised; we could also be partners in this, and I understand the management of the company as well. But the one thing they can't do is destroy something by leaving this city, the only meaningful employer or the investor who's gonna be the other. So what I'm really curious about is that the kind of model economy where, by the way, there is not only such a model economy, but also a large food producer that actually produces from the field to the table, and there's no problem with it being a model economy, but there could be a lot of them, but they're not working in this direction, but they're working in a direction where the state lands, instead of being used for this purpose, are being controlled by the state from the fields to the table, are now being sold. How there will be a model economy, Minister, let us in on this because the locals are very curious about how and how 400 jobs can be maintained in such a social form.
u2015-11-23-142	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-11-23-143	I thank the Member very much for his modest speech, which he has shown here in Parliament today, contrary to yesterday's provocation; I say that it is provocation, because people are being led, deceived or blackmailed by their jobs and their living conditions. First of all, Congressman, it is a sentence that you have said - a socialist politician rarely hears such a thing - that he was fine as he was. Then why did you privatize him, Congressman? If you believe that you were as well as you were from 1785 to 2005, then why did you sell it? Why couldn't this have remained a state model economy, like Fidesz is now trying to organize a new state model economy after you privatized the whole thing? Yesterday, Congressman, you organized a protest in favour of a privately-owned major estate, abusing the blackmail, threats and situation of the people who work there. That's very irresponsible, Congressman. We can offer these people a new model economy - yes, from the remaining areas, even through landscaping - and we will guarantee their jobs. But, Congressman, it's a hypocritical thing to privatize a company, and now you're organizing a protest next to a privatized company. Why did you privatize that company, Congressman? Then why did you support privatisation if everything was as it used to be? Now, why are you organizing a protest against the state model economy for a private economy? As a left-wing politician, do you think that Peaceful County and the South Great Plain need an 8,000-acre mega-economy privately? [[Intruder in the ranks of Fidesz, shout now!]] You think that county's needed an 8,000-acre large estate for hundreds of years? All left-wing politicians in Europe vote alongside small estates. Yesterday you teamed up, campaigned alongside the entire Hungarian left, and a large estate of 8,000 hectares because you represent the interests of the large owners, and it is in their interest to become servants in this country. And it's in our interest to have an independent existence in this country. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-144	Thank you very much. The honourable Member has the right to a rejoinder.
u2015-11-23-145	Mr. Secretary. I asked you a fair question, and you gave me a nasty, dirty answer. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Disgusting, garbage, bum choice. [[Uproar, interrogation in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You know why? Do you know why, Minister? [[Gyula Budai: We have to get out of the room!]] We didn't piss anyone off in Mezőhegyes, and we didn't stand up for management yesterday, we made it clear, but for the four hundred unfortunate people you're turning into land runners, and not just there, but in many other places in the country, only elsewhere, this doesn't cause social disaster, because there are other employers. Not in the field, Minister. Don't ever tell me I sold anything again, because you have to answer for it. I've never sold anything, and I never will! [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] The fact that there has just been a privatisation, as it was in your time, is one thing, but it has not ruined one job, Minister, that makes the same economy work the same way! What's gonna work there in a blasted area? Explain that to me. You're the last bastards! [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms in the ranks of Fidesz: The applause has been missed from its own faction! The MSZP didn't support this either!]]
u2015-11-23-146	The rejoinder is also due to the Minister.
u2015-11-23-147	Mr President, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I accept the President's rights to the house because it is not what one says, but who says it, which is why I do not think it is necessary to give my fellow Member Haughty any reproof, because we are used to this style from you and your party, so there is no novum in this. If you were to govern, this would be the country you represent in person and in style. May the wisdom of the Lord and of the electorate save us from this. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And as for the content, Congressman, don't yell at me and don't be rude to me. You are a member of the political party that created this situation [[Zoltán Grimlock: It is not true that we sell the land! We're selling it? You sell it. Intercom in the ranks of Fidesz: Water please!]] By privatizing this business after 2002, he gave the Mezőhegyesi Ménes estate into private hands, and now he's fighting for these private interests, hurting people whose personal existence depends on it. That's not fair! We're setting up a 2200-acre company here. [[Zoltán Gőgös: 2,200 hectares?]] In which we will employ these 400 people, calmly and calmly, Congressman, not with the style of your performance here. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: Who will care? Nobody! They're caressing the Butcher's horses? Or what? Interviews in the ranks of Fidesz: Don't shout! You're not in the MSP tavern!]]
u2015-11-23-148	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Z. Carpathian Daniel... [[Zoltán Grimlock: You are the last villains!]] I would like to ask you with respect to discipline your anger a little. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "When does the government act with sufficient force against alien resettlement? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Mr János Lázár, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, as a response to the urgent public task. I would like to ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I accept.]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2015-11-23-149	Mr President, Dear House, Jobbik, as it indicated earlier, also supports what can be seen as a painkiller for Fidesz's signature-gathering campaign on migration, because although it does not really oblige anyone in international space, its legitimacy power is much more limited than that of Jobbik's proposals, but we must say that it is a step in the right direction, where we must rise above absolute party political interests. At the same time, we have recommended a more powerful method to the attention of the government, namely a national referendum under which, not only - let us say, in a national consultation, absolutely with a party, but also with all voters - a legitimacy force could be introduced into the Hungarian political force, which, if appropriate, not only obliges this, but also the Hungarian government at the time, to be on the path of the Hungarian electorate, to remain in the bed surrounded by the clear will of the Hungarian electorate, as I believe that the proportion of those who would refuse to relocate the masses of those from any foreign country to Hungary, whether by quota or by repatriations. [[14.10]] In order to initiate such a national referendum, certain legal concerns had to be addressed. The only way to do this is through an amendment of the basic law. It can also be seen that Jobbik presented this basic law-modifying initiative long before the Paris events. At the same time, we were shocked that the government and the Justice Committee had not included this on their agenda. Finally, this happened today. Today, however, this committee did not allow room for Jobbik's initiative, so this majority of the Commission did not want to ask the Hungarian people directly, in a national referendum, about the social and long-term question affecting the sociocultural deep tissues of society, which affects the conditions of our living together in the long term. So the question is: why? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] is the government not willing to ask the Hungarian voters for a direct opinion on this matter? [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-23-150	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-11-23-151	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The doctor should prescribe the right medicine for each problem and the patient should take it. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: That's what we're asking for!]] In the first step, I agree with those who say that in Hungary the possibility of recourse to the European Court of Justice is followed by the government, which relates to the compulsory European resettlement quota. As we know, it was born, in my view, in an unlawful legal form, a decision by the European Commission which would force thousands of people into Hungary without having met a Hungarian person who would say that this is what the country would need. [[Z. Carpathian intervention by Daniel.]] The Fidesz and KDNP collected 750,000 signatures. I have to settle your doubts: I find that those who did not vote for us in 2014 and do not intend to sign it in 2018. I have met a number of voters who have never been and will not be fidesz, yet they support us in this matter, because the government needs not only the law that you have adopted as legislator, but also the support of society. However, I do not rule out the possibility of having a referendum on this issue in Hungary in parallel with or depending on the outcome of the dispute, given that Hungary has no interest in resettlement. Let us be clear: we in Europe want to stop immigration, not organise it. We believe that there is no need for a piece of immigrant in Hungary. The country is bordering on itself. If we need someone, then the maximum is those who live as Hungarians on the other side of the border. Consequently, we will not accept any immigrants, and as a Member of Parliament or executive authority, I consider the Commission's decision to install thousands of immigrants on Hungary to be unenforceable. There is no local government that provides housing and social assistance to these people in Hungary. I believe that, in order to avoid a serious social crisis, we must take every step to prevent the entry into force of the compulsory resettlement quota. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-152	Thank you very much, Minister. I'll give you the floor in return.
u2015-11-23-153	Minister, you will be surprised: I agree with you. We have to do everything we can to prevent them, whether by quota or by deportation, from deploying people from aliens in a mass. I'm just saying, when do they confront themselves with their own performance? Hundreds of people were deported to Hungary again this year. Right now, hundreds of people are in Hungary as prisoners or deportees. Go to Marton Fair, look around other institutions. These people are here, and we need to grab every means to keep these people out of the long run. That is why it is incomprehensible that, while you seem to leave the gate open before a national referendum, and I hope that this is where the government moves, your own fellow Member at the committee meeting this morning said that this is lengthy, that there is no possibility for this and that there is a European court initiative that can be two years old, which does not have suspensive effect until then. So we call on you to use all means to ensure that no aliens can be deported to Hungary on the basis of quotas or deportations. And we need a referendum so that it doesn't just bind you, not just a possible future Jobbik government. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] • • • • • • • • • • [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] set the way for the Hungarian government at all times. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-23-154	Thank you, Congressman. It's up to the Minister.
u2015-11-23-155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As regards deportation, Hungary has informed its partners, in particular Germany and Austria, that those who entered the countries concerned are physically unable to enter the territory of the European Union in Hungary. They must be pushed back to Greece or to other countries of origin, but not to Hungary. We therefore represent everywhere, in the negotiations with Germany, in the negotiations with Austria, that this system has failed, this system is inapplicable; let us find another solution, but we do not accept the deportation of these people. Today, there are 700 people in Hungary who are illegal immigrants. half of them are in open camps, and the other half are in guarded camps, in closed camps, and are constantly leaving the country, since we are deported to Serbia on a daily basis. So that's not a threat to the country. In the case of immigration, I can tell you that I personally, along with a number of my fellow Members, will never participate in any resettlement action. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-156	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, István Hollik, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question entitled "Family Friendly Country." The Minister has appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to answer. [[István Hollik nods.]] The congressman indicates that he accepts the person who is responding. You have the floor, Congressman Hollik.
u2015-11-23-157	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Since 2010, the government has done everything in its power to ensure that those who are planning a child feel that it is worth starting a family in this country and that they do not have to deal with its financial burden alone. At the same time, we all know that having a child is a lifelong financial commitment to its wonderful side, so parents have not only emotional but also material aspects in their decision. In 2010, the government set the goal of creating a family-friendly country and reducing the financial burden on children. With the benefits of the Gyed extra package, the introduction of the first couple's discount and the family's home-building discount, the extension of the family tax allowance to contributions, and the gradual increase in the number of families with two children from next year, a significant family-friendly turn has now been achieved. As a result, children's desire to have children has increased dynamically. The fertility rate increased from 1.26 in 2010 to 1.44. For women and mothers, the potential for reconciliation between family life and employment has an emotional and material impact on the decision to have children. Dear Secretary of State, Are measures taken to reconcile family and work properly to help mothers with young children to reintegrate into the labour market? What results can Hungary produce in this area? What efforts have the government made and are planning to make in the future so that Hungary can truly become a family-friendly country? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-158	Thank you, Congressman Hollik. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-11-23-159	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, He gave his address to his address as a family-friendly country, and then allow me to congratulate you on this, since he brought his second son home to his home a week ago. I would also like to congratulate you on the expansion of your family, and wish you good health to your children and your wife; and then I would like to turn to the official part of my speech. So, the family-friendly country is an objective, as the Prime Minister said at the demographic forum in Budapest, which we want to achieve, and for which we have done a lot in the last five years, but we still have a lot to do to achieve our goal. As you pointed out at the end of your question, it is important for many to be able to reconcile family life and work. We have sought to create a tax environment, a legal environment and a support system in which both mothers and fathers can and can achieve children's education, employment and careers are equally important goals. Successes in the workplace and the success of raising children are both important to us. The job protection action plan makes it much easier for family mothers to return to work, since employers do not have to pay the full amount of contributions for two years and then only half in the third year. In addition, mothers do not have to choose under the ged extra measure, this year from the first year, next year from the sixth month, whether to take the child or work. In addition to the child, the opportunity to work is also open to them. And if mothers take up work, then, of course, the children should be placed: between 2010 and 2014, we increased by about 10 thousand for nursery and family day care facilities. Our target for 2018 is 60,000 seats. This is why Parliament also has a legislative amendment opening up a more flexible crèche with several kindergarten types. This makes the day-to-day care of young children more flexible, especially in small towns, and thus makes it easier for mothers to return to work. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[14.20]]
u2015-11-23-160	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to rejoin Congressman Hollik.
u2015-11-23-161	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you for your personal best wishes, I'll pass it along. The measures listed are clearly forward-looking, but at the same time it is also an important question of how Hungary stands in the international context, since international proactive action and the experience gained during it are essential to define further directions for Hungarian measures. What are the most important impressions and conclusions in this area, based on what has been said at the recently held demographic forum in Budapest with a wide range of international experts? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-162	The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2015-11-23-163	Thank you very much. There were representatives from 18 countries here at the demographic forum in Budapest, Minister of the Government of David Cameron, many State Secretarys, Deputy State Secretary, Minister from Turkey to the United States, alongside many European participants, of course. One of the most important conclusions is what the President of the Republic of Poland emphasised in his greeting statement, and many others have also spoken about this: there are countless European forums dealing with economic issues, free movement of goods, patent issues, entrepreneurship issues, but very few in the European Union that deal with demographic issues. As Prime Minister pointed out, it is probably because the whole vocabulary and system of thought on demography and family policy is not in the politically correct way of speaking for European politicians. We therefore have the task - including the 18 countries that were at this meeting, in this demographic forum - to raise the issue of demography to the right level in the European Union, because our response to modern-day migration is hidden in demographics, not in the allocation of illegal immigrants by quota. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-164	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question, who is responsible for conning the brokers? It's an address. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck has the floor.
u2015-11-23-165	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, The LMP was right again. [[Deficit on the pro-government side]] But we can't be happy about that at all. The Constitutional Court annulled the law governing the aid to victims of the brokerage scandal. After the adoption of the law, we have repeatedly said that the law is not only wrong, it is not only a half-solution, it is even against the law. The principle of the law was wrong, as he highlighted the Quaestor-harmed among the victims, while the others - Baumag, Buda-Cash, Hungária Zrt. His victims - he did not care, he abandoned them, even though these frauds affect tens of thousands of victims. The government's aim, as has been proven, was not to help the victims, but to reduce its own political responsibility and avoid scandal. The government didn't care for the tens of thousands of families who lost their savings for a minute. It was just trying to save itself, but it was clumsy. Of course, that's understandable, because in Quaestor's bankruptcy, the government was heavily involved, it's enough to think of Csaba Tarsoly in the good graces of the Prime Minister even in the last minutes. Now we are saying that the victims did not receive or only part of their lost money, and Csaba Tarsoly is resting at home under house arrest. Following the judgment of the Constitutional Court, we must also highlight the personal political responsibility of the new Minister, Antal Rogán, as he led the group that submitted the bill that has now failed in the spring. And we must not forget the responsibility of the MNB, which for months has not noticed the serious irregularities at Quaestor until the dominoes have fallen. While the losers of the broker scandal are desperate for their money, the MNB has spent over HUF 300 billion irresponsiblely on non-core cases over the past year and a half. So here we are, the Baumag, Hungaria, Buda-Cash-damaged people have seen nothing of their money, and the government has also deceived the Quaestor-damaged. I'm asking you, when does the government finally realize that the entire damages have failed, and when does it begin to make real compensation without discrimination? Thank you for your attention.
u2015-11-23-166	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister János Lázár.
u2015-11-23-167	Thank you very much, Congresswoman, for your question. After the Armageddon-style question, I would like to inform the House of Hungary that 86 billion 288 million HUF has been paid to 31 147 customers. Undoubtedly, there may be a problem, but HUF 86 billion has already been returned to customers who, when they gave their money to Quaestor, claimed Quaestor, took a risk, and now the opportunity for taxpayers to benefit from this risk. The Constitutional Court has made an interesting decision. In part, I understand you have rejected the possibility of general compensation and compensation and, on the other hand, prohibited the possibility of compensation. This means that the settlement must also take into account the interest previously credited for up to 10 years that was realised earlier than the Quaestor victims. I am not saying that the situation has become simpler, so the Banking Association is also consulted by the government, and, of course, after the LMP is always right, we are also waiting for the LMP's proposal that now that we have paid HUF 86 billion to 31,000 customers, what else we should do with taxpayers' money in order to benefit from the risk that Quaestor's victims have left their money to Quaestor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-168	Thank you very much. I'll give the woman representing the floor a rebuttal answer.
u2015-11-23-169	Thank you very much, Minister. You promised, you promised not 6 million forints, but 30 million forints, but you couldn't keep that promise. If I remember correctly, this law was introduced quickly and quickly to the National Assembly, without consulting the banks and the Banking Association. If such consultation had taken place, at least half of the decision of the Constitutional Court might not have been taken. If, on the other hand, the other proposal of the LMP had been followed, i.e. to set up the committee of inquiry, which would have investigated what political mergers there were, where the supervision failed, the MNB, perhaps the other half would not have been destroyed by the Constitutional Court. By the way, LMP has also repeatedly said that the responsibility of the Hungarian National Bank cannot be avoided, the Hungarian National Bank has gained enormous profits in recent years from exchange rate gains and from the fact that they are forinted at the market rate, so it could take responsibility and contribute in some way to compensation.
u2015-11-23-170	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2015-11-23-171	Although the central bank is independent, in the spirit of fair and fair procedure and response, it is important to stress that the responsibility of the Hungarian National Bank cannot arise in this case, since it acted in its entirety correctly. The investigations of the Hungarian National Bank highlighted how Quaestor deceived customers. If you are a member of the National Bank of Hungary, then you cannot count what has happened, because the supervisory rights to the National Bank of Hungary have enabled the National Bank to act. Let's ask him why the former custody, when outside the central bank, didn't do something or what he knew and why he didn't do it. But that the central bank is not responsible for this matter, I'm sure of it. And as far as bearing the risk is concerned, yes, Quaestor cheated its clients, so someone has to take the risk. It would be nice if the Quaestor itself or the Quaestor fortune could cover this. But I would also like to point out that those who take greater risks than average in the hope of greater than average benefits must bear more than average consequences. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-172	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, There's time and opportunity for one more immediate question. János Pócs, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question: the land auction has started. What are the first experiences of the land sale program? It's an address. Minister Márton Bitay has appointed the Secretary of State to answer. I will ask the Member if he will accept the person who is responding.
u2015-11-23-173	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2015-11-23-174	Yeah. I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs.
u2015-11-23-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As is well known, the first auctions of the Hungarian farmers' land-ownership programmes started last week. About 380,000 hectares of public land were announced for the auctions, and more than 15 thousand parcels of about 51,000 estates have already been published. Details of the program can be found at www.nfa.hu. [[14.30]] The main criteria of the programme continue to support the land grabbing of small and family farms and local farmers. As we know, the price of the land is also guaranteed, and 300 hectares per person can be applied for. Only local farmers are allowed to apply, and they require an amount of more than 10 per cent to bid. Bidding starts at a market price of around 10 percent in public auctions. In the spirit of all this, it is clear that opposition representatives do not even have the opportunity to catch it. [[Dr. László Kács: Yes, John!]] As we can see, the spontaneous control body announced by opposition representatives did not find any error or abuse. Dear Secretary of State, On all these matters, I respectfully ask whether it is true that there are attempts at abuse. Is it true that, for example, Mrs.Sándor Ács, the leader of Kishantos, tries to land with the help of foreigners? Furthermore, I respectfully ask how many land has been found, how large these areas are, and how much revenue has been made for these areas. What is the experience of the auction? Should the rules of conduct be refined? Secretary of State, the press reports moderate interest. Can the wallet confirm that? Is it expected that the interest of farmers will increase at a further stage of the auctions? I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-23-176	Thank you, Congressman János Pócs. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs.
u2015-11-23-177	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I was shocked to hear the end of his speech, saying that he asked whether it was true at Kishantosi Nonprofit Kft. that they wanted to buy land with foreign money in areas that they had previously rented. I very much hope that this news is not true, and I very much hope that Kishantosi Kft. does not try to buy these lands - perhaps some Danish connection - with the help of foreigners. But I would like to reassure you that the situation on this issue will not be so simple, because the Land Traffic Act, which, unfortunately, was not supported by the opposition at the time, does not allow foreigners to buy land easily in Hungary. In the order of pre-purchase, the first 7 or 8 places are either state or local farmers and local farmers are included. So you can't run into this so easily. So I hope it's Kishantosi Kft. does not plan to buy agricultural land in Hungary with the help of foreigners. After asking about the bids, more than 237 estates were sold at the auction. At present, the area is about 55 percent interested. There are areas where there are only customers, there are areas where there are four or five, but there are areas where ten have been bid. There were areas where all the people in the room raised their reels 200 times before the final purchase price was established. I think we can talk about a successful program. On the first day, more than HUF 1 billion of revenue was generated, although the state is not revenue oriented on this issue. So we are talking about a successful program, and I hope that many people will be able to buy land. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-23-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll give you the floor in return.
u2015-11-23-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I respectfully accept Mr Secretary of State's reply. At the same time, the question arises as to who the Jobbik is concerned about and whose interests he is concerned about. For whose sake did Jobbik not vote for the increase in land lease fees? And, Mr State Secretary, the question arises as to where the moral standards of the MSZP were when István Lajtos of Nagyimany came to land for a third of the market price. I wonder where the moral standards of the MSZP were and the moral standards of the then Secretary of State Gőgös when the Italian majority-owned Mariano Kft. did you receive state aid of HUF 800 million per hectare or, to a large extent, free of charge from the State? Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-23-180	Thank you, Congressman Puddle. The possibility of rejoinder is given.
u2015-11-23-181	Thank you very much for the floor. Here, opposition representatives are coming to a good conclusion behind me. I am not so cheerful at all, because if I go through what the anti-host coalition tried to prevent the sale of the land, then it is outrageous; they have managed to work together to prevent taxatically including in the legislation that only Hungarian citizens can buy. It was also managed to ensure that the rent could not be increased for large plants that had previously paid lower rents. And now they're trying to make the various auction days impossible, trying to hold performances that deter farmers from buying. This is, to put it mildly, a hypocritical attitude, especially if I take the example mentioned by the Member, that during socialist governments, socialist friends were given land at a price of one third, and to this day still receive a daily payment of HUF 1 million per day from the person you mentioned. I hope that by the end of the programme it will be clear to everyone that Hungarian farmers are buying on this programme. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-23-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before we move on to the next agenda, I have an announcement to make. On the initiative of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party, the House Committee will hold an extraordinary meeting at 6:30 p.m., so at 6:30 p.m. in Room 37-38 of the main floor. Dear Parliament, A political debate on the fight against increasing corruption and the accountability of corrupted politicians, initiated by Gábor Vona and his fellow Members. Opinion on the initiative of the political debate V/7011. has been received by my fellow Members. The information material of the State Audit Office has been received today by the faction leaders, and my fellow Members will be able to read it on the website or receive it at the Office of the Court of Auditors. Dear Parliament, I would ask Mr László Földi to explain the course of the political debate.
u2015-11-23-183	Dear Parliament, Allow me to explain the course of the debate. First, a statement by representatives of the Government will take place for a total period of 40 minutes. The speakers of each political group will then speak in 15-15 minutes, and the first independent Member will be able to speak. The remaining time frame will then be open to further speeches by its representatives. Finally, the representative of the Government will respond in 20 minutes to what has been said in the debate.
u2015-11-23-184	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Allow me to remind you of the main rules of the time-frame debate. The speaking time of the member of the Government who spoke during the debate is expected to be in the time of the pro-government factions. In the meantime, two-minute speeches, with the exception of responding to personal concerns, should be included in the timeframe. Point of order speeches are not included in the time frame. On the meeting room information board, interested parties can monitor the use of time frames. Before we begin the debate, I would like to ask Mr Ádám Mirkóczki to explain the time frame.
u2015-11-23-185	Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that the Fidesz, MSZP, Jobbik and LMP groups have initiated a two-fold increase in the timeframe, so the distribution of the timeframe is as follows: 164 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 92 minutes for the MSZP Group, 38 minutes for the KDNP Group, 82 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 48 minutes for the LMP Group and 9 minutes for the independent Members. The time limits provided for the factions include the 15-15 minutes lead speakers.
u2015-11-23-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, First, the government's debate will take place in a 40-minute time frame, which will be shared by three speakers. First, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior. [[14.40]]
u2015-11-23-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The 8-year governance of the socialists, especially the Gyurcsány government, has seriously shaken public confidence against the state, the institutions of the state and public figures. Government corruption has given particular weight to everything that has never been seen before. The second Orbán government, which was established in May 2010, immediately announced zero tolerance against corruption. Our objective is to keep Hungary among the least corrupted countries in the world. We are not only talking about the opposition, but we are also doing something about corruption. Since its establishment, the Fidesz-KDNP government has implemented the series of most intensive anti-corruption measures in the last 20 years. As a result, Parliament established the necessary legal bases when it adopted the Fundamental Law, which entered into force on 1 January 2012, which states that transparent budgetary and management practices must be implemented; Act C of 2012 on the amendment of the Criminal Code; Act II of 2012 on infringements, infringement proceedings and the system for the registration of infringements. Act No CXLVII of 2010 on the amendment of certain law enforcement and related laws a law that has implemented law enforcement reform. In this context, we have established the National Defence Service, the body responsible for internal crime prevention and detection. This organisation is specifically designed to clean up public offices and prevent corruption. The MSZP, Jobbik, LMP, DK, Együtt, PM, so no opposition party has voted in favour of any of the above-mentioned legislative proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government decree on the tasks and responsibilities of the members of the government referred to the role of the Minister of the Interior as to the coordination of government tasks related to anti-corruption activities. The Minister of the Interior shall carry out this task by means of the National Defence Service. Our starting point is that Hungary is a rule of law, nobody is above the law. Every man who broke the law must bear the consequences of his actions. The government is committed to increasing confidence in the state and, under the Fundamental Law, it guarantees the responsible management of national wealth and public money by all means available, and effective action against corruption. The legitimate expectation of people is to reduce crime and to act quickly, efficiently, proportionately and legally against criminals. What did the government do, what did the Home Office do to stop corruption? Our country's first strategic document, defining anti-corruption activities at the general government level, was born in 2001 in the first cycle of Fidesz governance. That was 1023/2001. Government Decision No 1. In 2010, following its formation, one of the main public policy objectives of the Fidesz-KDNP government was to establish order in Hungary. This is the goal set out in point 2 of the programme of national cooperation:, It is time for order to be restored in the country. This is part of the intention to restore public confidence in the State and its institutions, to fully reduce public service corruption, including police and administrative corruption. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Zoltán Magyary's public administration development programme, published in 2011, set the goal of establishing accountability and eliminating corruption altogether. The government's corruption prevention programme, which laid down government measures for the period 2002-2014, was prepared and adopted along the lines defined by the Magyary programme. The comprehensive package of measures, which also focussed on prevention, highlighted the new approach, along with criminal law measures to reduce corruption risks, strengthen organisational integrity and support ethical functioning. The government is on 50/2013. With Government Decree No. 13, it introduced the integrity management system among public administrations. This means that public administrations should draw up an annual corruption prevention action plan, the results of which should be summarised in a public report at the end of the year. Rules of procedure should also be established for the receipt and investigation of reports on corruption risks. An integrity consultant has been appointed to address corruption risks. The Government of 1336/2015. It adopted the National Anti-Corruption Programme, which sets out the current direction of anti-corruption policy. The programme and the related measures include a comprehensive package of measures for both the public and the private sector, adopted by the Government for the years 2015-18, which provides for individual, institutional and systemic preventive measures. The programme is a major step forward in the fact that its scope has not been defined exclusively by the government in the public administration, i.e. the anti-corruption objectives and measures go beyond the public administration's system of organisation. It also sets out measures and suggestions, for example, to strengthen the cleanliness of business life. Dear Parliament, For the fifth time, the integrity assessment conducted by the State Audit Office in 2015 provides important information on the corruption risks of public bodies, allowing the legislator to have up-to-date knowledge and thus to act as effectively as possible against corruption. As part of the government anti-corruption programme, Hungary joined the Open Government Partnership international initiative in 2012. In 2011, 8 countries signed the declaration of open governance, and 55 other countries have joined it since then. The aim of cooperation is to strengthen the commitment of the countries Parties to establishing open and transparent governance and strengthening social participation, and to provide an effective inter-state framework for the exchange of international good practices and knowledge. As part of the accession, Hungary is the 1080/2013. In its Action Plan adopted by the Government Decision No 21, it has made a commitment, inter alia, to strengthen the publicity of budgetary data and public finance contracts, to improve the searchability of public procurement data and to increase the efficiency of the integrity management system in the public administration. Evaluation of the implementation of the Action Plan is ongoing. As the first step of the evaluation, the self-assessment carried out by the Ministry of Interior showed that 12 of the 16 commitments were implemented in whole or in part. Our aim is to create a transparent and open, accountable government and public administration, responsible for managing national wealth and public funds. I must point out that education in the field of corruption prevention is also essential. Following the introduction of the integrity management system, the National University of Public Service conducted extensive training in the public service. The training series has implemented one of the largest public service training courses in recent decades, the novelty of which, and its innovation, has also been highlighted by the European Commission in the anti-corruption report published in 2014. With regard to corruption prevention, it should be pointed out that, following the municipal elections, the new leaders of the municipalities will be prepared to defend themselves against the various forms of corruption. Dear Parliament, With effect from 1 January 2011, the National Defence Service has opened up new perspectives to combat corruption through the establishment of the Defence Service of the Ministry of the Interior. While the jurisdiction of the predecessor body was limited to the police and to a limited extent to the Customs and Finance Guard, the protected population of the MVSZ has been significantly expanded and its new tasks allow for a more effective procedure.In 2011, the main objective was to carry out protective tasks affecting professional staff within law enforcement bodies, in order to launch a purification process. The number of protected stocks then exceeded 93,000. The activities carried out by them covered, inter alia, police measures, prison functions, asylum procedures, tax and customs procedures, measures to be taken in the event of disaster control. In the years following the establishment of a new body, the protected stock grew for the first time, both in composition and numerically. Law enforcement bodies, and from 2013 onwards, the staff of public administrations, with a specific task, are now more than 130 thousand. Dear Parliament, Hungary is among those countries where corruption in national administrative institutions shows the greatest decline. [[14.50]] The European Commission has said that Hungary has made the greatest progress in the fight against corruption within the European Union. Obviously, we cannot sit back and be satisfied with this statement alone. Although we have significantly improved our position, we can only boast of results if we can move forward on the path we started, and, in accordance with the original objective, we have the least corruptible country, the least corruptible public administration. That is why we are determined, and therefore the government will take all necessary measures and will continue to do so in the future. Finally, allow me to update Péter Medgyessy's quote in August 2004, according to which the SZDSZ is full of corruption issues, so that today's opposition is full of corruption issues. To mention some of the current issues: there is still a procedure under way against Socialist MEP Dezső, who, in a grotesque manner, was one of the initiators of this debate; Béla Kovács, MEP Jobbik of the European Parliament, who, in Europe's biggest political corruption scandal, was suspected of an unprecedented crime. We trust, Honourable Parliament, that justice will find out the truth. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-23-188	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice.
u2015-11-23-189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, Within the framework of the judicial reform of recent years, the government has placed a strong emphasis on increasing the purity of public life and on more effective repression of corruption. In view of the recommendations made by the Group of States Against Corruption, GRECO in its country evaluation of Hungary, the Parliament decided, as a first step, on 14 November 2011, on the possibility of detecting bribery acts against those who have been working with the authorities in substance, to alleviate the penalty without limit, with which it sought to reduce visibility. This was a tightening up compared to the previous regulation, which provided for automatic, compulsory and full immunity from punishment. Under the new rules, the unlimited relief of the sentence does not constitute an automatic relief, the extent of its application depends on the court, and this gives the court the appropriate leeway to consider the specific circumstances. By amending the laws on criminal matters, the Parliament also decided on 14 November 2011 that by subtitled "buying influence" in the Criminal Code, it would create a clear criminality of dealing with active influence in both domestic and international relations. Normally, a person who committed such a crime could be punished by imprisonment of up to three years. A further change was the fact that, in the light of GRECO's recommendations, the amendment, like the active economic bribery in international relations, also imposed a fine on passive economic bribery in international relations. In addition, on the basis of international recommendations, the legislator has tightened the limitation period for crimes against the purity of public life and the purity of international public life, thus setting a minimum limitation period of five years instead of three years in general. Following several months of professional and social consultation, on 25 June 2012, the National Assembly adopted the new Criminal Code, which entered into force on 1 July 2013. The new Btk. it has used the results of previous years, but it has also introduced substantial innovations. The Code will structurally simplify the facts, such as, in a chapter, it regulates crimes against the purity of public life and against the purity of international public life as corruption crimes. The law also punishes active and passive perpetrators of acts that violate the purity of public life. It also differentiates between offences committed in economic life and acts related to official proceedings. The facts of the corruption crime have been developed in the new Btk. according to international standards, and the legislator has also taken full account of the findings of the third round evaluation of GRECO Hungary. Another loopholes have been closed to crimes that violate the purity of corruption and public life by creating a new set of specific facts following the international conventions and recommendations adopted by Hungary. These include bribery in judicial or administrative proceedings or the acceptance of bribery in judicial or administrative proceedings. These behaviors of the former Btk. He's been sanctioned, right, in a much smaller circle. An important change is the fact that active or passive bribery, previously regulated within one stage in the context of judicial or administrative proceedings, is regulated by law in two separate facts according to the new structural order. The new Btk. explicitly mentions the conduct of an arbitration proceeding and makes it a criminal offence, for example, in respect of the EU Court of Justice or International Criminal Courts established by international treaties, or in respect of international criminal courts set up by the United Nations Security Council. The new Btk. treats as a classified case if active economic bribery is committed in a criminal or commercial capacity. In order to prevent the registration of companies run by stromones, a person who is involved in the registration of an entity or individual in the register of companies whose place of residence is unknown or cannot be found at its place of business, or who is not the beneficial owner of the company, has become punishable. The most recent changes in corruption offences took place on 1 July 2015. Since the legislation had to make it absolutely clear to citizens that bribery and the acquisition of influence cannot in any case be the way to deal with official cases, the fact that the acquisition of influence was also punishable by the fact that the unlawful advantage was granted or promised to someone who had granted it to an official or, in view of it, to someone else was added from 1 July 2015. In order to increase the effectiveness of the detection of criminal offences, the new rule has been introduced in the law, which allows for an unlimited relief of the penalty both in the purchase of influence and in the trading of influence, if the perpetrator declares the offence to the authority and reveals the circumstances under which the offence was committed before it was brought to the attention of the authority. Finally, in order to ensure zero tolerance in the field of corruption, the 2015 amendment declared the failure to report bribery to be punishable for all corruption offences. The new Btk. on the basis of everyday experience, it has modernised the scope of economic crime, another chapter on crimes which are not strictly detrimental to the prudent functioning of economic life, such as cybercrime. Criminal offences that harm the budget have been discriminated against in a separate chapter. This includes, for example, criminal offences such as budgetary fraud in the course of the 2011 Btk. amendment. In particular, in the case of public companies, it has been a long-standing practice to fake wealth through fraudulent economic activity, such as fictitious study writing. This is an effective response to the new situation called economic fraud. Several times in previous years, the managers of the typically state-owned company have carried out activities that have caused the company billions of dollars in damage. [[15.00]] If there was no deception of a natural person, fraud could not be established - in this way the group of perpetrators escaped in many socialist cases - because the facts of fraudulent treatment could not handle these cases properly. It has therefore been justified to punish criminally the fraudulent conduct of fraudulent economic activity for the purposes of unlawful exploitation. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I have highlighted only the most important innovations on the subject, but I hope that this is enough to show that, in order to reduce corruption, the legislator is seeking to establish more perfect and effective criminal law regulation that is fully adequate to international expectations. I hope that this will also contribute to the cleanliness of public life in practice, to the strengthening of confidence in the proper, uninfluenced functioning of the state apparatus and of official persons. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, unfortunately, in Hungary today, the opposition is full of corruption cases. The Deputy President of the MSZP, Gábor Simon, held hundreds of millions of forints in foreign banks, and also saved a passport for the worse times in Guinea-Bissau. To this day, this practice has not ceased, as news of MSZP's black casket in Józsefváros and the suspicious double bookkeeping continues to appear. With the adoption of official bribery, Dezső Gyelgy of MSZP is being prosecuted, and Ferenc Juhász, former Minister of Defence, has just been sentenced to two years in prison for the crime of misappropriation. [[Zoltán Grimlock: First degree!]] I wonder where Zoltán Gőgös's ignominious role in the LEADER programme stands. We could discuss that today. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] However, corruption is not far from Jobbik, because to date the party has not cleared up the most serious corruption scandal of all time involving foreign ties, the Béla Kovács case. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] The Jobbik representative is charged with Russian espionage, and you may know that it's no use laughing at him. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You haven't even steered yet! Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: It's been online for an hour...]] Gábor Vona must answer the question of how Béla Kovács financed his party. [[Crying in the ranks of Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]] Of course, when they find out, they'll give it up, we'll hear it in the press; it might be a little late for a reaction. As well as why he has not examined his representative's case to this day, and what he means by: "About the case of KáGéBéla - in Lajos Simicska's paper he said - I have heard a lot of things between him, which are inconclusive things that I expect to be answered. Well, maybe you can get it as soon as possible, and we'll be waiting for your answer. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: You can give us...]] We also expect an answer to the question as to why Jobbik was on the side of large owners in the land programme, even though in his programme he urged the Hungarian family farmers to distribute land. Are the interests of Lajos Simicska and his co-owners more important to Jobbik than those of the farmers? Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: He wasn't our friend!]]
u2015-11-23-190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, Secretary of State, you have more than 16 and a half minutes. [[Noise.]]
u2015-11-23-191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Continuing with the government proposal, I would first of all like to talk about what the government has done to make the economy white, reduce VAT fraud, VAT denials, measures to shorten the budget and a series of activities. The European Commission published a study in spring 2015, which analysed and assessed the period 2009-2013, and the main point is that it examined the size of this particular tax on a country-by-country basis. This means the difference between the VAT that is theoretically available in the budget and the actual VAT revenue. Although this study is disputed by many and is not fully acknowledged as it contains a lot of uncertainty, as it carries out estimation procedures and draws conclusions on the basis of estimation procedures, I believe that the assessment of trends is certainly important for Hungary as well. On the basis of this statement, in 2013 Hungary estimated 24.4 percent, which means that we were still in the Central European countries: we were better than Poland, Slovakia and especially Romania, but in the Czech Republic, Bulgaria and Slovenia this ratio was better than in Hungary. It is very interesting to compare the figures and, let's say, analyse how VAT revenues have evolved in Hungary since 2010, following the change of government. In 2010, the actual VAT revenue was only HUF 2313 billion, and at the same time in the 2016 budget we planned to increase VAT revenue by approximately 50 percent in five years. In particular, in terms of post-crisis time, this is not justified by macro numbers, due to an increase in inflation, due to no other macroeconomic developments, and, more importantly, the reduction in premiums has been directed against VAT revenues, as this has reduced VAT revenue, low inflation or negative inflation, which does not increase the VAT revenue of public finances. But then, what happened in Hungary, that VAT revenue increased by more than a thousand billion forints in five years? By the way, according to analyses, some 500-750 billion VAT revenue falls out in Hungary, which could be 15-20 percent of the theoretical VAT base. If the European Commission were to continue its analysis and look at the evolution of VAT revenues in Hungary in 2014 and 2015, it is quite certain that we are already at the forefront of Central Europe, since we are not yet achieving the revenue from developed countries in a positive sense, but at the same time it is probably one of the most outstanding and best in Central Europe. But why? The reason why the government has faced the fact that the budget has reserves here, and the biggest revenue shortfall, let's face it, is in the area of fiscal fraud and general sales tax. This is why a number of government steps have been taken, perhaps the most prominent of them at present are the introduction of online cash registers. The introduction of online cash registers in 2013 significantly transformed VAT revenues. Today there are more than 200,000 stores in online cash registers, which means they are connected to the tax authorities and can be followed by hours, minutes, exactly how a business is going to develop. With this method of sectoral analysis, the State budget was able to show a significant surplus of VAT revenue in 2014. According to purified analyses, about HUF 180-190 billion is the amount that flows into the budget as a surplus because of the introduction of the online cash register system, which means that this amount of VAT has not been declared before by the players in this sector. In total, VAT revenues increased by HUF 318 billion in 2014 after other measures, amounting to HUF 11.8 billion. There was an increase. Here, allow me to stop for a moment, because it has been one of the most significant measures in the last five years from a government point of view that affected Parliament, the parliamentary vote. [[15.10]] Today, I have gathered how opposition parties have come to this measure, since [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: Did you collect it? Dr. Wind Bernadett: Did you work with him a lot?]] one of the passuies of the Tax Code has enabled the introduction of online cash registers, and the opposition parties, who are now united in collecting signatures, fighting corruption, and what government corruption there is, have not voted in full shock, either opposition party has voted in favour of the introduction of online cash registers. [[Moore from the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP.]] The opposition party did not vote as we know the voting methods. In spite of the uproar of opposition representatives here, they did not vote for the online cash register to be introduced. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You can say it ten times more! The president's ringing the bell.]] In the past year, only HUF 200 billion of additional revenue could be secured for the state register. You can be outraged at that, but you didn't vote for it. But many others have not been voted against corruption. All in all, the introduction of online cash registers was a success story. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that the devil is not sleeping, so it is clear that the initial success of the introduction of the online cash register must be followed by further action, because there is a counter method for everything. We do not need to sit back and be satisfied, and later these revenues, trade and VAT revenues should not be lost, which is why it is also necessary to take further measures. It was also a very important decision by the Parliament and the Minister of National Economy to introduce the EKÁER system, the introduction of the system of control of the trade in goods, which operates from 1 March this year, the essence of which is to ask the tax authority for an EKÁER number in advance in terms of transport and to follow the movement of goods in the country. The government expects an additional revenue of HUF 60 billion this year. I indicate that during the first full quarter operation, during the second quarter of 2015, the net VAT liability of the companies concerned increased by HUF 30 billion. Therefore, it can already be shown in figures the effects of this measure. We believe that the introduction of the EKAER is also of great importance at international level, since they are already coming from other countries to study the Hungarian system. The main purpose of this method is not only to follow the movement of goods within the country and to move goods under a clean account, but also to ensure that products of uncertain origin do not enter the country, and that the country is likely to be able to gain the greatest by introducing this system. We believe that, in the long term, the operation of this system is very important in terms of VAT revenue. Of course, further development is also required here. However, if we look again at the role of opposition parties in this regard, whether the 2014 Art voted in favour. In this respect, we can see that opposition parties did not vote for the possibility of introducing the EKAER system. So while they are talking about how important it is to fight corruption, to make the economy white, they do not even praise themselves for asking for that one amendment and voting on at least one of them, but for a united vote. So Jobbik didn't vote for it, and neither did the MSZP, while they were talking about something completely different. Overall, the government has taken significant steps to make taxation - and I am not just talking about VAT - clearer and more transparent, so that it is worth paying taxes, reducing the rate of personal income tax, but the same can be said for certain VAT rates. It simplified taxation, made it more complicated and difficult to set up companies for persons who left public debt and tax debt behind in other companies. Several, continuous measures have been taken to increase tax revenues in the area of taxation and to eliminate taxpayers who are trying to cope with unfair means and gain advantages against their competitors that they do not pay the tax required by law and that they can sell their goods. I think that, going back to this day, on this initiative by the opposition, it is a very special thing that, while opposition parties are fundamentally involved in their corruption activities, they are trying to introduce themselves to the public about how innocent they are, and that corruption is actually directed only at government parties. I think this is a political mistake for the opposition, and so allow me to give you a few examples of this, too, in the conclusion of my speech. The Hungarian Socialist Party is basically involved in VAT fraud, since one of the persons called Zoltán Dömény himself declared that between 2006 and 2008 he was involved in these VAT frauds between Hungary and Slovakia, transported goods and then claimed the VAT back, part of which landed in the register of the then governing party, MSZP. In return, Balaton Meat Kft. is linked to István Molnár. received grants from the Hungarian State. That's how it happened, the competent authority. He received a state grant of HUF 850 million. But then here's the explanation for how the MSZP can run black parties in Józsefváros and who knows where else. Well, he knows about these funds, which another entrepreneur said was created by the then ruling party, the MSZP. So I think it's definitely counterproductive, controversial, but I think it's ridiculous that the party that collects signatures in Parliament is starting a debate day, who is most basic in VAT fraud, and is running its party from it. But the Jobbik isn't in a better position, by the way. [[Defiance from Jobbik's ranks.]] I don't know, János Volner may not be here by accident, because everyone must have heard about János Volner's cemeteries, some of János Volner's companies, we know that he disappeared in the system as if he had left public debt behind, one of the companies had proven a tax of HUF 12 million. So before the opposition talks about corruption, then the opposition will clarify why the opposition is up to its neck in corruption. [[There's a bright light in Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Wind Bernadett's name.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-192	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. [[There's a grumble from Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] First, I give the floor to Mr Szilárd Németh, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, within a 15-minute time frame. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-11-23-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Today's anti-corruption debate was initiated by the left- and right-wing opposition, in a very close cooperation with MSZP, LMP, DK, and better. It is clear to everyone that they are disturbed not by the so-called corruption, but by the Hungarians' democratic decision made five times in 2010 and 2014, the Fidesz-KDNP election victory, the success with the people, the reduction of the costs, the management of the migration situation, the position of Hungarian farmers and the reduction of crime. [[15.20]] Yes, the opposition said no to the Btk. to tighten up the fight against crime, zero tolerance to corruption, accountability, cutting down the black economy, stricter use of public funds. Whoever governs can even be wrongly accused of corruption by its nature, but what opposition is full of corruption? This is what the opposition is like. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] Speakers of the Fidesz-KDNP will also make it clear and clear today, and we will prove with facts that the opposition - including en bloc, from the far left to the far right - is full of corruption issues, from MSZP to Gyurcsány Vona Gábor, who has still not revealed the worst corruption scandal in Europe. [[Deterioration in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]] about what foreign powers Jobbik, who employs KáGébéla, serves [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes!]] And for how much money he did this, how much money he made to finance Jobbik, Béla Kovács. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] However, it is intolerable that today there are two members of Parliament with a public plea of immunity: Dezső and Béla Kovács Józsefikos in the MSZP. [[Zoltán Lukács: What a coincidence!]] We could sit among us the faithful bag carrier of Gordon Bajnai, Mr Szabolcs Szabó, but he did not consider it important to attend today's meeting. When are they going to account for the foreign support of the Party Foundation, Home and Progress? The SAO also clearly stated that the LMP could not account for the party's budget support. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Did this result? Who of the leaders of the LMP took the money? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: He's so corrupt...!]] Did András Schiffer, Bernadett Wind or Ákos Hadházy make a complaint? Brussels condemned party financing in Hungary because of them, two opposition parties. We must say that the opposition in the face of corruption is intertwined [[Dr. Bernadett Wind and György Balla intervene. The president's ringing the bell.]] common goals have been set for today. On the one hand, the unwarranted and unscrupulous slander of the Prime Minister [[Defiance in the ranks of Jobbik and MSZP. Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP: The son-in-law! What about Tibor?]] The government and the Fidest with what they're doing, and on the other hand, I'd like to draw attention from their own corruption cases. Dear Parliament, Then let's look at the facts and the real corruption cases. Last Thursday, Ferenc Juhász, former Minister of Defence and his confidant, László Fapál, former Minister of Public Administration of the portfolio, was sentenced to second degree detention. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] It's an infidel treatment. This will put another case in the accounting file of the most corrupt government of all time, the Gyurcsány-Bajna era. Ferenc Juhász, Minister of Defence of the First Gyurcsány Government, is an unsub and László Fapál's State Secretary of Administration is an instigator of the case. [[Zoltán Lukács: I can't believe...]] As a result of the breach of property management rules, the Ministry of Defence suffered a financial disadvantage of HUF 43 million, and this was not repaid. [[Zoltán Lukács: You steal so much every hour! Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] According to the indictment, László Fapál, a professional soldier, received a service apartment in 1988, which he could buy ten years later. László Fapál also received an employer's loan from the defence for real estate construction in 2001, which was repaid in 2005. Nevertheless, on 11 February 2005, Ferenc Juhász submitted a request to the Minister of Defence to ensure that the former housing allowance and the employer loan did not constitute an exclusion and that he could receive a rental. In the HM Zuglo he purchased 147 square meters of floor heating, air-conditioned, sauna, four-and-a-half-bedroom property for 65 million HUF on 5 May 2005, specifically for László Fapál. That same day, HM took action in an accelerated procedure, and monthly - now pay attention! - By setting a rent of 11 680 HUF, László Fapál signed an open-ended lease. [[Zoltán Lukács intervenes.]] On 10 May 2006, László Fapál, Minister of State, asked the Minister to buy the apartment he rented. On the date of the submission, László Fapál agreed to submit the proposal concerning his own person to the Minister, who endorsed it on the same day with the inscription "in order." László Fapál, Minister of State of Public Administration, was able to purchase the flat bought by HM for HUF 65.2 million for a discounted price in a few months. However, with regard to László Fapál, we can find another fact: after his position as Secretary of State ceased, he gave advice to the Chief of Staff of the Socialist Minister for Defence Imre Szekeres for a net VAT of HUF 500 000 per month. By the way, the Csepel Socialist Home Powty series is based on a similar scenario. The members of the top team, the privileged partners of principle and business, may have reached social housing in the district in a way that they were not entitled to, but if already assigned to them, they bought it at a fraction price six months later, but before that they were always renovated in public money. Sometimes the renovation took place only on paper, settling the accounts, and even immediately after the acquisition of the property, the apartments were sold. A man's sense of justice - especially for young married people, for needy people who wait for years to get a social home - is very much looking forward to a righteous punishment, the nullification of contracts, the confiscation of wealth, the clicking of handcuffs and the slamming of the door. Ladies and gentlemen, Then there is another court judgment: the pioneer camp of Csillebérc is a real veterinary horse of the long process of transfiguration from the communist to the sociolist, unscrupulousness, cynicism, and the criminal alliance. [[György Balla: That's right!]] There's nothing more repulsive than when some people conspire to harm children. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Oh, Szilárd!]] And indeed, the words of Sándor Márai are very true: Communism has failed in every sense, but it will be difficult to get rid of the Communists [[Dr. Wind Bernadett intervenes.]] Because no one is as dangerous as the recipient of a failed idea. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] who no longer protects the idea, but the naked life and the spoils. Yes, the final judgment issued after a quarter of a century confirms that comrades considered the country's largest child welfare facility as a prey [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] who no longer protects the idea, but the naked life and the spoils. Yes, the final judgment issued after the quarter century confirms that the comrades considered the country's largest child welfare institution (Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes). The camp of chilibérci. Those who were singing "As the Squirrel" (Bangóné Borbély Ildikó intervenes.) "Communism was glorified, after the change of regime, they concentrated only on the drain of wealth (intercoms from the lines of the MSZP. ), in this case, how children are being stolen. Péter Rácz, László Varju, who later became Vice-President of DK, sits here among us as MP, his wife Katalin Czeglédi, Miklós Tóth, László Puch, Nóra Nagy, wife of former MP István Nyakó [[Zoltán Lukács: As we know, that is a crime! If someone's married to the Neck, it's a crime! As we know. Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Everyone was involved. By the way, the Csillebérci case is not a unique act of corruption against children by comrades; let us think that under socialist governments, the possibility of travelling camping that had more than 130 places in all parts of the country was virtually eliminated. We can ask: who, how and how did they get valuable properties, most of the time in nature conservation areas? Or there is the cafeteria system: since 2011, since the Fidesz government has transformed and introduced the Erzsébet voucher system, 150 thousand large family, disadvantaged children, small pensioners and disabled people have been able to vacation free of charge. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, Dear Comrades, Then why did you allow companies owned by foreign left-wing trade unions to pocket the benefits of cafeteria vouchers for decades? [[15.30]] That's what they used to upload the black tapes in Yogatown, Republic Square? If it isn't these money traveling to János Zuschlag or Gábor Simon. [[Zoltán Lukács: Zuschlag is your friend!]] Sure, there's more down there. In Csepel, the anti-child camaraderie dog got to the depth that could not be explained, a pedophilia suspect, so even in the election, he was withdrawn and later sentenced to a former MSZP representative to run the Child Protection Foundation that organised camping for disadvantaged young people. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We ask by name!]] Dear Parliament, The next case simply contains crime scenes, turns of events, the world of the dirtiest gangster movies. Bálint Szabó, President of the Young Left Vas County, was beaten and raped on the eve of a libel trial because his attackers wanted to prevent him from going to the trial the next day. In the case, György Ipkovich was also mentioned as mayor of Szombathely, former MP and then President Csaba Tóth of Vas County, current MP of Zugló. Ladies and gentlemen, No comment. Individuals and party affiliations speak for themselves: corruption suspects with a specific interpretation of the difference at the Vas county MSZP. Unfortunately, the double murder in Csepel was able to beat even this terrible thing. The comrades of Csepel, in full strength, with their pride and arrogance, by their greed, believed that they could do anything, at any time, anywhere. [[Defiance in the ranks of the MSZP.]] Two innocent people - I wouldn't smile at that - one of them was just an old comrade, and I could even say that their friend, an ex-KIS leader, Member, deputy group leader, deputy mayor, and the other one, a young, life - cheering educator, became the victim of their corrupt system. A foundation system was set up to enable them to decipher the state and tap the municipality, to use public funds for private purposes, and to train and assist disadvantaged children and young people. That's how the members of the Comrade Circle got real estate, a well-paying job, so they ran a black casket for room leases, and they manipulated the books. Then, suddenly, someone, the murdered MSZP member director and his young deputy, had had enough of the reference to the civil society, the puffy and the worker, and they started on the path of clarification. But they never arrived at the end of the journey, because they had to die at the beginning. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, allow me to quote Solzhenicin [[Zoltán Lukács: You always read this! Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You know this, nothing else.]] The most harmful and dangerous type of man has ever been produced by history. [[Zoltán Lukács: You read this every night, Solzhenicin.]] Their cynicism, insolence, power hunger, unscrupulousness, destructive tendencies, culture and antispirits are unimaginable to any other normal, i.e. non-communist people. The Communist does not know shame, human dignity, and has no idea what Christian ethics calls conscience. A communist disfigured soul, a healthy-spirited European man, cannot be a communist. There is no lie that requires a thick skin that a communist would not say without blinking his eyes if it was in the interest of the movement or the personal welfare of the comrades. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Are you talking about Rose Hoffmann?]] Unfortunately, the power-hungry Jobbik has been involved with these for many times now. There's nothing to explain. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] A bird of his pen, a man of his friend. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-194	Thank you, Mr Szilárd Németh. The MSZP group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Congressman József Tobias. You have the floor.
u2015-11-23-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My first request to the President would be to ask the chief of the minutes that this 15-minute stump Hopkins quote should be removed from the record as it is, which is unworthy. It is unworthy of all that has been said here, my honourable Members, because of what the proposal is about, so it should be quoted precisely: the proposal is about the possibilities of anti-corruption in Hungary. Slowly, but continuously unfolding during the Fidesz government, it is now clear that corruption has become a state level. And the last 15 minutes have convinced me exactly why this list is and why it will be a part of this debate today. Because in the last quarter of a century there have been corruption cases in Hungary - yes, at the time of various governments - but there has not been any government, honourable fellow Members, which raises corruption to the level of state law. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Abuse, my fellow Members. There are also noises in Europe, there are others, but there are abuses in Hungary, outside politics, in the private sector, but even in health care. Every government has had one or two big cases in the last quarter of a century, but during the Fidesz administration, let us look at what systemic corruption means, what it means, my fellow Members, that you will eliminate the gambling system in Hungary by referring to the safety of families and the health of families, and what it means to be concentrated in one hand afterwards. A company? No. A state firm? No. Today, everything about gambling is concentrated in the hands of a private person. And to be systemic, let's make it a law that he doesn't have to pay any fees, he doesn't have to pay any taxes. [[Interviews from Fidesz: Sukoro!]] That's what gambling is all about. Let's keep talking, it's a question of traffic. What does it mean? You're making a law to make this legal, because you can do that with two thirds of them. What's happening? They take away their livelihoods from people working 20 or 30 years, because they're responsible for the constituency, although they can't be proved, because the recording doesn't count as one, yet they give a commendable statement about how we're going to hand out trafics to friends and buddies. Let us talk about another systemic corruption, my fellow Members, on the subject of the earth. This is where the debate takes place between the walls of this House on how and how private property can be a good owner, because the state is not a good farmer. And interestingly, we now anticipate that systemic level means that today, by the way, very expensively purchased land, which no one would buy in sanely, because its return is 150 years, we are looking forward to the bill that will change the terms of the lease contracts, where they want to make it possible to enrich themselves from the land already purchased with expensive money as a new owner. Another very important issue, because when we talk about corruption at systemic level, we are talking about public procurement. Today, more than 50 percent of EU funds are carried out without public procurement in Hungary, be it public lighting, be it state investment, be it a development resource. Today, you are legally, legally, making a law that you no longer need an open tender, now you can invite it, and you still have to bring in two other bidders. [[Dr. Pál Völner: It is also public procurement.]] I wonder, Minister of State Völner, how your public procurement process can create transparency and transparency today, when more cases come to light every day - not eight years, not twenty years - than in the last twenty years. But speaking of which, ladies and gentlemen, the United States Ambassador, the independent social organisations, the Union, are also talking about damaged constitutional arrangements, the total lack of brakes and balances, the fact that a concentration of power has started in Hungary, the result of which is that most of the decisive decisions for generations remain obscured, do not reveal what the Russian credit agreement contains, and do not reveal what the Paks II is. In his contract, because it is encrypted, we are all talking about Fidesz, who has been governing for the fourth to fifth year, starting with the occupation of the institutions of the rule of law. [[15.40]] Ladies and gentlemen, The recipe is very simple: to capture the state. I quote János Lázár, although I don't know literally, because he was speaking only precisely and beautifully, as they say, but somehow he talked about the fact that legislation is in the interest of economic companies and economic companies in Hungary today. Which economic lobby are we talking about? Who today wants to convince any member of this Parliament that it will be right for the government to send out public procurement laws or notices, or to accept them, that someone will already have a pre-beneficiary? Ladies and gentlemen, It is not a question of what has happened in the last 20 years, but of what must be changed to prevent it from happening in the next 20 years. This requires more transparency, the adoption of much more international standards, and they must abandon the legal procedure tailored to their personal and economic interests. As long as the voter doesn't have a choice as to how he wants to live his life, because you make rules for him, which are otherwise unenforceable, while, on your own, on your own oligarchies, on your own clientship, you make rules that you will rightly say in the debate today that it is not so, because it was legal. And they're right. You have made corruption legal in Hungary by two thirds. Therefore, after 2018, every case that you have classified or not has to be made public. It needs to be reviewed so that it cannot be that we move without consequences to a new republic without Fidesz, without Fidesz government. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-23-196	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Let me make a comment first on the so far speakers of Fidesz. I thought that when I listened to Mr Kontra's last eight-year record and, frankly, he read his medium-written production report a little bit, that it could no longer be underdone. [[Zoltán Tessely: But you try!]] Yet my fellow Member, Németh, succeeded in doing so. [[István Szilárd Németh: Truth hurts! It hurts!]] I would suggest that the only quote you know seems to know from the classics, and nothing else, because you're telling me this forever, do it in your own faction, because you're sitting with people like that, not us. [[Interview from the benches of MSZP: That's right! Moore from the pro-government benches.]] What is important, ladies and gentlemen, is that there are levels of social crime, criminology and criminal law. In the latter, for example, there is the lowest degree of co-involvement, then there is the group crime, then there is the crime in the criminal association, and finally the crime in the criminal organization. This is as far as criminal justice is concerned. And he doesn't name it anymore, but unfortunately, it's a phenomenon for you, and it beats that when government operations are based on corruption. That's what the faction leader was talking about. That is, we are no longer talking about corrupted politicians, state leaders, government close businessmen, but about government operations based on corruption, centralized state theft. It is worth pointing out some of the elements of this, which is what Mr. Group Leader has done, and I am talking about a little something else. We are not talking about leases and a few hundred thousand forints of crime, which there is no excuse for, but, for example, that if you want to reach 3000 billion forints of private pension assets, you will not simply steal it, but put it in the state register as a structural transformation. When it comes to redistributing land, or playing over tobacco or gambling concessions, laws are passed on it. First they destroy the sector by law, then they play it for themselves as a monopoly. If the money for culture is to be distributed to friends, they're going to create the Academy of Arts. If an advertising company is to be stolen, the market segment that owns it will first be banned by law, it will make an irrefutable offer to its destroyed company, say, one of the Prime Minister's main shoplifters, and then the relevant market segment will be reopened by law. Risking the country's diplomatic and moral credibility, it has been clearly proven that it will be published in exchange for business interests, but it may be more appropriate to say that the axe killer will be sold to Azerbaijan. We have often criticised, my fellow Members, the breakdown of brakes and counterweights. What does that have to do with corruption? Let's look at which public bodies would be most suited to combat state corruption; let's start with the NAV. Today, the tax administration does not pursue, but authenticates, sometimes coordinates institutionalized corruption. It is not, therefore, that corrupt officials work within the NAV, perhaps even as delegated members of organised crime, but that the tax authority operates as an organ of state corruption on the basis of government expectations. That is what the American ban scandal was about, where, in addition to others, the President of the IRS was banned from the United States of America for corruption, honourable Members. Corruption! However, this is also the case in the study of a tax expert on criminologist who cannot be accused of leftististism, who has revealed the nature of the operation of this system with a scientific need. It is clear that corruption offences can be most widely discovered in tax administration procedures, such as related controls, not prosecutions. I wouldn't tell you about the police, because even though it would normally be your job to prosecute corruption, it's hardly possible and expected under a corrupt government. Then there would be the prosecutor's office, led by an ex-government candidate, whose partial and politically biased operation, supported by facts, was proven here in Parliament's plenary session for 4-5 hours. The State Audit Office, the National Bank of Hungary, is led by an ex-member of Parliament, and the Constitutional Court is slowly made up of constitutional judges nominated and elected by Fidesz. In summary, they provide their corrupt system with a corrupt tax authority, an infinitely biased and influenced prosecutor led by an ex-politic partner, a State Audit Office for Party Interests, a National Bank and the Constitutional Court, which, even in cases of constitutional violation, does not prevent legitimised theft. That is quite a system, ladies and gentlemen. Where's the Italian or the American mafia compared to that? Here, not members of the Mafia are incorporated into the highest government circles, but the Prime Minister is the godfather himself, with many relatives in the government, at the head of formal government balances and at local level. The latter, I can say, are the small kings of the region, as in the Middle Ages. When the king arrives, where he will be greeted with a very tasteful painting - it is a pity that the Secretary of State of Tallai is no longer here - and with other consideration. And then there are celebrations here and there for the acquisition of their stolen billion iksed. They are no longer satisfied, my fellow Members, with their own stolen property, building their own small society, with vassals and vassals. And the fabric is bound together by common interest, gratitude, but most of all fear, because because of the wealth gained from the dog, perhaps in the hierarchy a little lower wealth, a larger Drumple - how shall I put it - holds hands to everyone. So, it's not enough to have a fidesz political elite, a fidesz economic elite, a circle of politicians' stroncs, the Mészáros Lőrincs, not only a small local king, but also an artificially formed fidesz middle class, the tramp owners, the preferred subcontractors, the contestants, the new layer of landowners with artificial nails. But don't think that we don't know how and what is going on in Hungary! Do not think that because the circumstances today are not such as to require the public to explore them, that the potentates who can move do not want to act or even support these phenomena, there is no risk of this behaviour! But there is, my fellow Members, a risk. In most cases, the limitation period for these offences is ten years. Ten years in politics is an incredibly long time. Patience is not the same as lack of knowledge and determination. In the case of some corruption acts supported by legislation, we may be faced with what was once the judges of the Nuremberg trial. [[Noise from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Répássy Robert intervenes.]] But on the one hand, they have found a solution, on the other hand, they do not have to be the most serious and fall into every crime. He may have gotten away with most of Al Capone's crimes, but he ended up in prison for tax evasion. That's how you're gonna walk. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Robert Répássy: Come on, don't threaten me. Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2015-11-23-197	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr István Hollik, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. [[15.50]]
u2015-11-23-198	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I am a Member recently, which is why I am certain that my inexperience has led me to conclude, by reading the title of the political debate day, that we will be talking about concrete or ongoing corruption cases involving politicians here, and because the opposition is full of corruption cases in Hungary, this day will be about the fact that the MSZP and Jobbik will be able to provide reassuring answers in these specific cases. But immediately after the Socialists had just heard him speak, I realized that, unfortunately, I must be disappointed, because it is now clear that despite all our positive expectations, we will not hear any meaningful answers about the black cassava of the MSZP in Józsefváros, the origin of Gábor Simon's money in his account in Vienna, or the ongoing bribery of our fellow Member Dezső, who is a believer. But I suspect and anticipate that Jobbik will also be silent about Béla Kovács' case, and we cannot expect them to interpret Tamás Sneider's 2010 sentence about Gábor Vona, which means that Gábor Vona probably even had to be friends with mobsters. [[Dóra Dúró: It's not true!]] Therefore, I would like to put this debate in a slightly different direction from what I have planned. First of all, there is always a discreet charm when the socialists accuse on this subject, so that we can name, essentially only after long research work, a leading left-wing politician whose name has not yet been mentioned in some corruption-suspecting case. It was amazing, therefore, to listen to the Socialists' speech, which went very generously beyond the embarrassing past of the MSZP and its current corruption cases. However, we cannot move forward without saying anything about corruption related to the socialists, and we certainly do not want to receive cabbage-guarding advice from the goats of the Parliament. Especially in view of what the Fidesz-KDNP government has done to curb corruption in recent years. The secretary-general reported on this in detail, but I think it is worth repeating briefly, because it seems that the representatives of the MSZP have not heard these results. First of all, the government has declared zero tolerance to corruption. In 2011, it was the current majority of governments that included in the Fundamental Law the responsible management of state assets. He did this because left-wing governments wasted and squandered Hungarian public wealth. The new government also did a lot in the fight against the black economy, introduced online cash registers, adopted a new public procurement law, and also tightened the penalties for corruption crimes. While public procurement under left-wing governments was won by offshore companies, the new law excluded offshore companies from public procurement. The Orbán government cancelled 25 years of inheritance when it made campaigns cheaper with the new rules and made party funding transparent. And to mention an international recognition: the recent report of the Council of Europe's anti-corruption organisation acknowledges that Hungary has implemented all the recommendations of the 2012 previous report by ratifying the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Corruption and has taken further important steps against corruption. On this basis, it is clear that the Fidesz-KDNP government is committed to combating corruption. The anti-corruption work of the past years provides us with the basis that if the MSZP does not talk about its own affairs, we should do so here. Firstly, we must see that the MSZP has in the past ten years only had candidates for prime ministers whose names are associated with corruption cases. Apparently, this was required for the usual prime minister's casting on the left. In the case of Ferenc Gyurcsány, you don't know where to start the list, in the case of the destruction of state assets in the autumn government resort, or in companies called Nomentana and Fittelina, which served the purpose of reclaiming VAT after the construction costs of Gyurcsány's swimming pool to be built in its luxury villa. And then I will not talk about unnecessary public investments under the governance of the MSZP, which also raised the suspicion of corruption; it is enough to mention only the valley bridge between the hills or the tunnels built in the wilderness. But if we look at the 2014 PM candidate for MSZP, Attila Mesterházy, then we are faced with the Zuschlag case, because Attila Mesterházy was the State Secretary of the Ministry where they decided on youth aid and Zuschlag stole these money. In a criminal alliance, the court said it, I'll add. But not just in the past, I would like to recite a few topics that we still haven't received an answer from the Hungarian Socialist Party. I mentioned Gábor Simon's case, MSZP VIII. I was the president of this party, and the secret safe of the MSZP party-house was closely linked to this, and that Ferenc Gyurcsány found that in 2013 he said - and I quote exactly - that I was the president of this party, that the money migrated from many places, not very much from Europe, and that it was better not to know. The MSZP still owes us an explanation of this sentence. But it would be indecent for me to mention only politicians who are still active today, so I wouldn't want to miss Ference Juhász, who has just been accused of being guilty of buying László Fapál's apartment at the Metropolitan Court, or even of Dezső, who is accused of being bribed by the Central Investigator's Attorney General. If we wanted to continue the list and bring SZDSZ's affairs here with a small historical look, then the extended timeframe would probably be scarce for us. But in addition to the MSZP, Jobbik has to be mentioned because corruption is not far from Jobbik. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] To this day, the party has not cleared up the worst scandal of all time, the Béla Kovács case. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] The representative of Jobbik, who has a Russian wife, is accidentally accused of spying on the Russians. Gábor Vona must answer the source of the money Béla Kovács financed Jobbik. As well as why he has not examined the congressman's case to this day, and what he means by saying recently about the KáGéBéla case: I have heard a lot of things, among them ambiguous things that I expect to be answered. Gábor Vona, Mr President, we are also waiting for answers. We also expect an answer to the question as to why Jobbik switched to Lajos Simicska, the big owner, even though he urged Hungarian family farmers to distribute the land in his programme, and now they do not support the Hungarian land being put into the hands of Hungarian small owners. [[Zoltán Haughty: For it will not belong to them!]] It is important to stress that the cases mentioned above, contrary to your empty political accusations, are specific, ongoing or even closed criminal cases. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Are you talking about absolutions?]] Therefore, before anyone from the opposition's benches thinks that there is a point in a debate where you can repeat your empty accusations, I would like to point out that this is unnecessary. It is unnecessary because they did so already in 2010 and 2014. In the campaign of parliamentary elections, corruption was spread throughout the country, but the results are well known: in the context of corruption, the Hungarian people were reminded of you, the socialists, and they do not ask for corruption on the left again, and they support the Fidesz-KDNP government to build a successful country and continue to do everything in the future to combat corruption. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-199	Thank you very much, Congressman Hollik. I give the floor to Mr Gábor Vona, leader of the Group of Jobbik. You have the floor.
u2015-11-23-200	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. Many of our childhood must remember the time when we started writing the word "vacation" backwards on the board as the summer break approaches. If I saw the word "option" on the board right now, I'm not sure I would think of the word "holiday" or "holluccination" either, as we hear much more about migration and corruption in Hungary today, although listening to István Hollik and Szilárd Németh, the word "haluccination" came to my mind. [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] It is important to talk about corruption and migration, because these are the two serious problems that want to bury Hungary, but unfortunately there is a difference between them. [[16.00]] For as long as migration is mentioned, corruption is hardly mentioned. This is because the government has no political intention and no political interest in talking about corruption, because it has something to be ashamed of and has something to hide. As long as the political theme of migration is in their interest, and we can make sure on the public service channel that this is what the discussions are all about, this is what the reporter's questions are about, corruption is hardly mentioned. And that is not good, because corruption is Hungary's biggest problem today in addition to migration. I could say that corruption is today Hungary's public swamp, in which every good intention, every positive idea has sunk and sunk over the last 25 years. As a kind of red line, like an eternal promise, for the last 25 years, the anti-corruption policy, accountability, in the government program or electoral program of each opposition party has gone through. [[Adam Mirkóczki will be replaced in the notary seat by István Ikotity.]] Everyone promised in opposition, and then in government, they forgot their earlier promise. In fact, not only did you forget, but the opposition parties campaigning with anti-corruption have come to government, including left-wing parties here, and Fidesz, of course, have become the drivers of corruption and leaders. We have the right to ask ourselves why. What is the reason why parties who have talked so much about the elimination of corruption in opposition could not do anything about it in government, and even do the opposite. Is it possible that this is an anthropological law, that this process is encoded into human infirmity, that when someone gets close to the meat pot, he gets on the wheel, he can't resist the temptation of money, power? Is that what we've been talking about for the last 25 years? I don't think that's what this is about. This may also be the case, but this is not the explanation for the last 25 years - much worse, unfortunately. It is not a question of pure opposition parties seeking to eradicate corruption, but of failing from human infirmity, but of being corrupt as opposition parties, both MSZP and Fidesz. So we're not looking at a Greek drama here, the tragedy of failure, we're looking at an old mafiaafil. Even in opposition, both the MSZP and the Fidesz were corrupt parties, and then, of course, they continued to do the same thing they did in opposition. Their entire opposition, their party, their party system, their mechanisms have been built on corruption organization, corruption mechanisms, and it is perfectly natural and logical that they have not been able to exit from this framework, which they have drawn and created. Corruption causes great damage to the country, and I am talking not only about the financial burdens that can only be measured in thousands of billions, but also about the kind of moral decline that this is doing in Hungarian society. What does the voter see? What does the Hungarian citizen see? He sees that the boundaries of property, whether public or private, are not clear at all, but confusing, and in this confusion you can fish and even fish. Because it's something that steals. This is what Hungarian public life has been telling him for the past 25 years. It is not decency, not diligence, not honesty, not humility, but unscrupulousness, arrogance, and corruption that drives you forward. This is what both the left-wing government and the current Fidesz government have told him: that it is worth stealing. [[György Balla: Just don't read it!]] You've got these outbursts, right? What's that? Very much so. So what? It's either that or it's that. Each prime minister has his own way of saying it. They tell people that the political leader is not really ashamed of being corrupt. In fact, he thinks that people have to accept it as some kind of law. Beyond financial losses and moral decline, there is a third major problem with corruption, and this is a national security risk. Here you can constantly come up with Béla Kovács's case - as the biggest corruption scandal in Europe - which, frankly, I cannot really interpret. [[György Balla: We'll help you.]] And I can't even understand what kind of investigation you want me to do. It would be weird, think about it if I could investigate a Russian spy case, and Jobbik would have an apparatus for that. [[Dr. Pál Völner: The problem is that you are.]] To investigate a Russian spy case. That'd be rude. So what's a national security risk here is more your American ban scandal that we still don't know why people close to you were banned from America. That's what you should answer, and that's what you should be explaining. And it is also true of both the left and the current government that the fish reeks of its head. So there's a myth that there's a good king and bad counselors, but it's just a myth, the leader, the king who's surrounded by bad advisors, is a bad king. This is true of Ferenc Gyurcsány and also of Viktor Orbán. The Prime Minister surrounded by corrupt people is a corrupt Prime Minister. And I've asked you this twice here in Parliament, but I'm going to ask you for the third time, especially the Fidesz-KDNP, the benches of the governing parties, who of you would dare to put your hand on fire for Andy Vajna, Árpád Habony or Lőrinc Mészáros. I don't, that's for sure. But would you dare put your hands on fire for the Prime Minister's immediate environment? And if you look around in the last five years, traffic tickets, land leases, land privatization, casinos, skeletons are constantly freaking out. Whatever closet we open, one or more skeletons will freak out in the face of corruption. Since I've been talking about movies recently or about Greek tragedy and mafia movies and skeletons, I'm thinking about Walking Dead. Speaking of Andy Vajna, Andy Vajna could be asked to rotate the seventh series of the series here in Hungary, in the Hungarian Parliament, because we are full of corruption skeletons. And if you ask the Jobbik's attitude and try to make a fuss, because, of course, the Fidesz strategy is understandable for me and for everyone on this debate day, I think they're trying to spread responsibility and defile everyone, trying to throw their own mud at everyone here; I would add, of course, that this is not too difficult for the MSZP. But trying to introduce Jobbik here as a corrupt party, I think it's hard to understand. It's hard for me to understand, and we don't see the evidence at all. I know that people often say that when it comes to the Jobbik government, they will certainly steal, too, because this has been the experience of the past period that everyone who is on the government has stolen. But there is a huge difference here; and what I have already said is that Jobbik, unlike you and the MSZP, is not building its party system on corruption mechanisms. We are not building a corrupt party in opposition, just as you have been building corrupt parties from the beginning. If they go to the better local authorities, they meet the better mayors, which is why they will not find corruption in the better local governments. But if you find them, let me know. Show me or find me an entrepreneur, my honourable pro-government fellow Members, who had to be redistributed to any better settlement! And how many settlements do you think there are, Fidesz-led settlements where entrepreneurs had to be redistributed to certain corruption cases? There is no such thing in the case of better local governments. There are also our proposals, which we have made many times, but somehow, although they like to take over our proposals, we have experienced this, but somehow our corruption proposals, our anti-corruption proposals are not really liked. I'll tell you one more time, because hope dies one last time, and see if you'll like it: for example, abolish immunity. Let us not give politicians the opportunity to constantly hide behind their immunity from justice. If you are so proud of the national consultation, I recommend that you run the proposals I have just made here through a national consultation. Believe me, this will be the most successful consultation ever. So let's abolish immunity, let's start with that. Then, what we have said to you many times, we will also publish the property declaration of the relatives. I don't understand why you don't dare do this. Although I know that Parliament does not oblige Members of Parliament to do so at the moment, Jobbik has done so. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] I think you've got the opportunity here, the good example is sticky, you're gonna make your family's family's property statement public, and we're gonna introduce you, prove to the people that nobody's trying to get stolen property to the families who have stolen property. Or here is our proposal: at the end of the term, each Member of Parliament and member of the Government will be subject to a propertyisation investigation. [[Zoltán Pride: I agree.]] I want everyone to account for how they've made the fortune they've made in the past four years. Anyone who has something to fear must be afraid. Our next proposal is to abolish the limitation period. 'Cause after hiding immunity or property, that's usually the third lifeline to wait for the statute of limitations. Jobbik would abolish the limitation period for corruption crimes committed by politicians. We are very much looking forward to the ambitious and courageous proposal of the governing parties on this matter. And here's the double punishment proposal, which is about if a politician, if any, a Member of Parliament, commits a crime, then he's guilty twice in our assessment. After all, anyone who violates the law as a lawmaker has done more, has done more harm to the law, to the order than a ordinary citizen. I mean, if the guy who brings it doesn't follow the law, who's gonna follow it? Therefore, if a person sins twice, then he will suffer double punishment. We propose that politicians should be able to impose double the penalty for a particular crime. And those are not mere words! If it goes to the Jobbik government in 2018, it will increase these proposals to legal force. We would like Hungary and corruption to cease their very friendly relationship, and Hungary would declare war on corruption. [[16.10]] You are unable to do so, and the socialists were unable to do so, because, as I said, this is what they have built their system for in opposition. Here you have stolen everything for the past 25 years, everything, almost nothing where corruption has not failed, and if corruption, let's say - the Prime Minister is not here, but he loves sports comparisons - it would be sport, then it is certain that the socialists would bring the world gold to Hungary, but you and the Olympic gold, I am sure. What the socialists have done unscrupulously, of course, often misplaced as corruption, you have set it up and put it to the top, and they operate corruption professionally. I think, and between Jobbik and LMP, there must be similar ideas that XX should be the case. The century is about corruption, and in politics, the 20th century is about corruption. It's still a century, just because you're on the government. Then the XXI will begin in Hungarian public life. If, at last, this corrupt system, which you and the socialists have been discussing with each other on the conn, has been run together, it will be over in the last 25 years. That's when the XXI will begin. Company. And if Jobbik has no mission in Hungarian history other than to bring this day to Hungarian society, then it is worth creating this party. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-201	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Here comes Mrs Bernadett Szél, lead speaker for the LMP Group.
u2015-11-23-202	Dear Parliament, If we are holding an anti-corruption debate day in 2015, then we must definitely state two facts. One is that all those who have ruled this country for the last 25 years have become famous for corruption. That is why voters think what they think about Hungarian politics and Hungarian politicians. That's why they think that politics, as such, is a shameful thing, and that politicians, as such, are dishonest. This is the responsibility of the parties who, after the change of regime, were in a position to govern this country in Hungary. The other fact that we have to state is that in the last five years, Fidesz-KDNP has given Fidesz-KDNP a priority responsibility. Dear Fidesz-KDNP, You are responsible for weakening this country. We also see that you will govern this country as long as you have enough to suck out of this country. You guys are real blood-sucking parties. The main activity of Fidesz-KDNP is actually the operation of corruption by now, and governance is nothing more than a cover for you. You know, I could give you a long list of the failures and consequences of the government of the last five years. All I have to say is that there is an increase in workers' poverty, a worrying rate of emigration, EU money being wasted, there is the wrong education and social policy, and there is our broken-down agriculture. The biggest problem, however, is that today corruption, the scheming of state money, has priority over governance. We see that during the 20 years before you, corruption has been a particular hotbed for government, but you have built a very professional machine for corruption. The problem is that this machine you've built consumes a lot. The Simicska-Orbán war proves most of all that this corruption, what you have set up, is practically eating up the entire government. The Prime Minister himself felt that he had no room for manoeuvre against the oligarchs operating the system. Entrepreneurs running the background country had more power than the Prime Minister himself, people sitting at all levels of the government from whom you could no longer govern, and these background powers were able to shape government decisions according to their own needs. It is a tragedy that the result of this war has not been that you have reduced or finally eliminated corruption, but that we are now there, since 2014 we have been looking at you as a new generation of oligarchs. And that's why I call you bloodsuckers, because now there's really less and less of us in this country that can be squeezed out of us, and I know exactly that you want to steer here as long as there's enough to suck out of this country. We could talk about a lot of things, but now let's go through some of the topics that I think are a great deal of heartache for many Hungarian people. There's the robbery. Your government started by remembering that József Ángyán was appointed Secretary of State, and we all had the right to hope that two thirds of you were there, that József Ángyán was there, and that they were finally going to take down the corrupt estate system. Where are we in five years? We are saying that József Ángyán is one of the loudest opponents of the government's rural policy today, and you are now robbing the entire Hungarian countryside for the second time. József Ángyán himself told us that the members of the individual oligarchs are sitting in the ministry and handing out the state land to themselves. Have you read the Ángyán reports? Every word they say is true. The country's most successful farmer is the Prime Minister's neighbour, by the way. You said earlier that the Hungarian land was not for sale. Now, without thinking, in a government decree, they sell two thirds of the cultivated state land just to weaken their former ally, Lajos Simicska. The best proof is that the entire ground-privatization, the fidesz land-privatization is a scam, that they themselves say that state revenue really doesn't need this extra money, you don't want the money, you want the state money, you want the new generation of oligarchs again. There's Paks, the Paks expansion. We know there's no need. We know that there is no need for this kind of urgent construction. We know it has nothing to do with cheap electricity. Not only do we know this, but the Orbán government itself knows it, but you clearly don't care. For you, it is not the expansion of the nuclear power plant that is important, but at least HUF 4000 billion, 13 percent of our annual GDP that can be stolen from this project. Everything that's happened in the last two years has been subject to this goal. However many obstacles may arise, any number of compromises must be reached... and I would like to stress that you have backed down against Brussels when it came to the fuel contract and allowed to be removed from the contract so that the spent fuel can be returned to the Russians. What about these fuel elements? Are they all staying in Hungary? Is this where you're gonna bury them? Anyway, they backed down. Now we have two more infringement procedures, you will not ice this project, but will continue to spend the taxpayers' money from this year's budget and from next year's budget, even though it cannot be illegally under the 21st century. To build a nuclear power plant in the first century. What do you need? You don't want a nuclear power plant, you want the money. Continue: casinos, Andy Vajna and the Trafiks. It's the same money laundromat as the Paks expansion. Another, a symbolic project: the distribution of casino concessions. The model is well known: by state means they occupy an entire market, and then they put it together and hand it over to one of the government's favorite oligarchs. There is always a noble goal, like tobacco, so that young people do not smoke, like gambling, to reduce the dependence of Hungarian people, but it is not really about you wanting anything good for Hungarian people, but about wanting a lot of good and money for yourself. It was very interesting to listen to Mr András Tállai's opinion on what people think about online cash registers. I will take András Tállai and the entire Hungarian government seriously from this point of view when they finally check Andy Vajna. [[András Tállai: Checking.]] I had to fight for the government commissioner to have the national security screening that you've been forgetting about for years, but the fact is that out of all the Hungarian cash registers, you don't have to connect those in casinos to the NAV according to Fidesz-KDNP. By reason, they are not very tired here, but Andy Vajna, like the investment in Paks, can carry public money in secret. Of course, he could only keep part of it, because then he had to buy a commercial television right away. But the model is the same, the fidesze-KDNP blood-sucking model: there is an official argument about some noble purpose, and then comes the big stretch. You're really professional in this, but there's just one problem that no one has chosen you for this. But let's continue with the NAV scandal. Here we are, sitting in the box, András Horváth, who blew this up. To date, we do not see clearly about this, but we do know that a country cannot be run by Hungarian taxpayers without feeling safe about their tax forints. You, honourable politicians, have set a very bad example of your inexplicable enrichment, when it comes to the fact that your declaration of wealth is constantly changing, we don't know what they have money for huge forks and heated swimming pools and everything. But what kind of thing is that there is a NAV that collects taxpayers' money, and we don't know how transparent this whole institution is! ? There was the demand for a green dossier, it was about Hungary having a tax administration that citizens maintain in order to pay taxes for common purposes. People now see that the corrupt elite from their tax forints is enriched by corrupt elites, because they see that the authority whose primary task is to collect common resources is privileged and acting on political instructions is opaque, and there is strong suspicion that it is taking part in maintaining corruption itself. [[16.20]] Suspicion, of course, but how's your investigation going? Have you scanned the NAV? The thing is, it's ridiculous. We don't want to do weekend self-examinations. He has the right to be fed up with every single Hungarian citizen, and if the government does not see this, then he is not only cynical, but simply out of his mind. Because if the IRS is not transparent and untapped morale, it is a tragedy for the country, because it undermines our common goals. That's where the EU money is. They also have a perfect system of how to carry EU money, but that is not what you are authorized to do. Ákos Hadházy, anti-corruption spokesperson for LMP, has revealed at dozens of applications that they receive hundreds of millions of dollars for non-existent or unnecessary services, often billions in pre-furnished public procurement by the same companies. For example, there is Prime Minister's son-in-law. If he is involved in lamp renovation, they will renovate the street lighting in every city in Hungary, whether they want it or not. The model also works in exactly the same way as in all areas of their governance operated by the corruption machine. First, a friendly company is selected, who provides a service in good times, writes unfinished studies in worse cases and holds unfinished trainings. After that, the government will put out the tender, then all government-led cities or other organizations will apply, and eventually they will sign up without competition with the pre-selected company. All this is really sad because, like the Paks investment or your land grabbing, the next thirty years of this country will at least be ruined. The EU funds will fade after a while, and we will remain here with a lot of non-viable companies, which have no knowledge beyond political relations. You promised to put the public interest first instead of private interests. This, I'm telling you, is exactly the reverse of it. The fact is that Fidesz has an ideology for downsizing, although they talk about creating a national entrepreneurial layer, but please, what if I can list this national entrepreneurial layer on one hand, how many are there and who are these national entrepreneurs? Possibly Other Politics has tabled dozens of legislative proposals and comprehensive amendments in recent years in order to move from one to two against corruption. These proposals have been canceled without exception. We would have eliminated illegal lobbying - the Fidesz didn't want it. We remember the tobacco dog - it wouldn't have been possible if the LMP had steered. You couldn't hide a public contract, but Fidesz didn't want that either. The Fidesz-KDNP would not allow this to happen. This country could say good-bye to covert party funding, because we would have banned public advertising spending. You won't let me do that either. The offshore knights would have really been outdated, but you consciously held them in power. In the last 25 years, while you were governed by your predecessors, and in practice, as József Ángyán said, this country has been robbed in the morning and afternoon shifts over the last 25 years, two and a half times the total government debt in Hungary has gone out to offshore companies. The thing is, we could've avoided all the serious restrictions we've had in the last 25 years if there wasn't an offshore. There was the opportunity before the Fidesz-KDNP, there was the LMP proposal, they could have implemented it. They didn't! You guys are deep in all this. I believe that it may be difficult for Szilárd Németh to find no catch at the LMP, but then I would ask my colleague to at least keep quiet and not to spread sarcastic lies in the Hungarian Parliament. LMP accounted for last penny for campaign spending in 2014 [[István Szilárd Németh: Definitely not.]] the party also published its report in the Gazette and accepted it by the State Audit Office. In fact, LMP was the only party that even had a joint report by Transparency, Transparent, K-Monitor and Political Capital that said that it had not exceeded the legally-spent framework. [[Cries from the Fidesz ranks, including, "That's suspicious." This explanation is suspicious. The president's ringing the bell.]] The framework that you have overstepped many times, and it was you who made it possible for fake parties to suck billions out of this country. In fact, I hold in my hand the presentation entitled "The Better Performed Campaign Corruption" in Hungary. [[He's showing it to me.]] It says next to Fidesz, the champion of overspending. [[Uproar, public shouts from the ranks of Fidesz, including György Balla: And when did you write it? Defiance in the ranks of government parties.]] That is the case, gentlemen and ladies. There is a Hungarian saying that he sees the beam in his own eyes and the splinters in the other's eyes. Dear fellow Member, You can start with LMP in the field of corruption if you see anything that gives rise to corruption at all, but the fact is that LMP is in a completely unicical position in the Hungarian Parliament. We are the party that we have been working on since 2010 to keep you from stealing. That's the big deal. Ladies and gentlemen, The situation in Hungary is much worse than it was. In 2010, Fidesz-KDNP promised Hungarian people everything and did nothing of it. Apparently, he promised everything to his own friends and his economic interests, and apparently he did better. The problem is, we don't know what's gonna happen next. If the Fidesz-KDNP continues to run under the title of Hungarian government, then the people and politicians who will come after you will have a very difficult task, because this is the ruin that has to rebuild this country. But fortunately, there are more and more of us who are ready for this. [[Uproar, interrogation from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And fortunately, there are more and more who are turning away from you. The thing is, everyone's eyes are now pricked by the fact that they've become unscrupulous in stealing. Gentlemen and ladies, Dear Parliament, The next time we have an anti-corruption debate day, I expect the Hungarian Government to take due consideration at least on the issues in which you have proven yourself to be muddy. The thing is, don't try to show Snow White around here and make everyone look like the ugly witch. You're exactly like a blood-sucking couple. [[An uproar and an intervention from the ranks of the age party: Now, now, be careful!]] they behave in everyday life, as it seems to everyone, for all of Hungary. It is a shame for all of us that this can go on in the Hungarian Parliament, that, under the aegis of anti-corruption debate day, virtually nothing is said about Hungary's essential problems. Of course not, because then you'd have to look them in the eye. And that's my big question: when this new mandate of Fidesz-KDNP is over, and we reach 2018, how will you look into your own eyes? How are you going to look the voters in the eye? [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Your tax dollars, your stolen tax dollars are your pregnant legacy, and we don't know what's going to happen to this country, because you're stealing unscrupulous.
u2015-11-23-203	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, The first independent Member has not been present. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Therefore, two-minute speeches will follow. First, I give the floor to Congressman János Volner, Jobbik.
u2015-11-23-204	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Tállai, State Secretary, made comments concerning my person. Mr Secretary, I would like to respond to this. First and foremost, I have never been involved in public procurement myself, so through this I have not been able to corrupt myself, but your fellow parties have become billionaires from public procurement. I myself have never been involved in drawing state aid, unlike fidesz politicians and entrepreneurs, so I couldn't corrupt myself in this way. What you are talking about, Mr. Secretary, has already been decided by a final judge, Mr. Secretary of State, on the issue of responsibility. I published correspondence with the IRS on my Facebook page. The tax office also tells me the same thing as the court that János Volner does not have a public liability, and the issue of responsibility was settled by a final judicial decision. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks:]] On behalf of the Secretary of State, it's a dirty trick to pretend that I have anything to hide here, but of course, we're prepared for the Fidesz to try and clean up the laundry by spreading their own mess elsewhere. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-205	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary of the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-23-206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The opposition accepted with great clarity or denial the statement that the opposition was full of corruption cases. I asked for the floor to say that you are not arguing with us, you are arguing with yourself, and I would like to support this with five citations. Let's start with, say, Bajnai Gordon, who can't be here anymore. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt:...dissemination.]] He said that many should be fed up with corruption scandals before 2010. We could also mention Tamás Sneider, who, as a better-looking politician, was thinking in 2010 that the president of Jobbik should even be friendly with mobsters. [[Uproar, interrogations from Jobbik's ranks, followed by Dóra Dúró: It's not true! He didn't say that.]] The president of Jobbik interviewed Lajos Simicska in October 2015, a few days ago, and in this he stated that he had heard some disturbing things in the case of Béla Kovács. [[Interjection from Jobbik's ranks: You are pathetic.]] So if the Jobbik would like to launch a consultation, we should definitely launch this consultation on these matters. Don't forget Ferenc Gyurcsány, who, when spoken, said that the money migrated from a lot of places to the MSZP, but not very much from Europe. Where he wandered from, it's better if we don't know. In other places, he said that he left the MSZP because they stole from that party. [[16.30]] It's an interesting thing when the magpie flies out of the nest and shouts "theft." Finally, we could also mention Attila Mesterházy, who said to Die Welt's prestigious German newspaper that the corruption cases of the MSZP are a huge problem. So if you're serious about the fight against corruption, you're going to have to do it in your own ranks. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-207	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai.
u2015-11-23-208	Dear Parliament, Dear János Volner, He's good with words. No one claimed that you were involved in public procurement and that you were corrupted there; no one claimed that you could not account for State aid; and no one claimed that you had a public debt. [[An intervention in the ranks of Jobbik: Yes, you can. Mrs. Loránt Violin, applause, that's it! Thank you.]] He claimed that you were involved before you were a politician, owned by him, was a member of a company that ceased to be in public debt. [[Adam Mirkóczki: That's not what you said!]] The congressman didn't have a public debt, but the company in which he was a member and owner. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] And you could have been responsible for paying the public debt to the state fund, but you didn't, and you let the company go. He just didn't think he'd become a politician at the time, and once in Parliament he'd have to be accounted for. One. Two, it's a matter of the NAV. Welcome Andras Horváth to the bleachers. [[Intercoms in the lines of LMP and Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Intercoms in the lines of LMP and Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]] The question is whether the LMP called or the Jobbik; here's the question, that's obviously going to come out. But finally, András Horváth is in place. He wasn't good for a NAV worker, he was bad for a reviewer, so he got offended and went to the opposition as a politician. Good luck with that. (Intercoms in the lines of LMP and Jobbik. - The president's ringing. And about the failure of the NAV, the following. I'm sure you weren't here when I told you that between 2010 and 2015 VAT revenues had essentially increased by 50 percent, which was collected and collected by the NAV. The NAV has implemented the online cash register system and the EKAER system. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] This year, the NAV collected HUF 570 billion more tax revenues than the appropriations. The NAV may have an organisational or management crisis, but the people working there continue to perform their activities excellently today, at the level expected by the state and at the level of tax revenue, so that there is no crisis or failure at the NAV. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-209	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Secretary of State Károly Kontra.
u2015-11-23-210	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to respond to Mr Bárándy's comment, and I would like to reject his statement, which sounded about that this corrupt government-led police force cannot be expected to investigate or investigate crimes. [[Bellozó Gábor István Tollai to András: How is the National Park of Bükk? András Tállai: Drink water! András Tállai provides a glass of water to István Gábor Harangozó.]] I would like to draw the congressman's attention to the criminal code 300. §2 [[Gábor István Bellozó to András Tállai: Don't go, I'll ask this national park a few more times... András Tállai: If you want to go to court!]] which states that the official person who is aware of an undiscovered corruption offence [[Gábor István Bellozó: Make the complaint and we'll take care of it...]] and this authority... Mr President, please give me the opportunity to... [[The president's ringing the bell. Intercoms.]]
u2015-11-23-211	Go on, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-11-23-212	So he is the official person, so the Member of Parliament, who in this capacity is fully aware of an undiscovered corruption crime - and the Btk. 300. §2 of the Act lists these crimes in particular - and the authority shall be punished for a sentence of up to three years as soon as it becomes aware of this crime. Congressman, if you know of a corruption crime, press charges under this law under the Criminal Code. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Karcsi, we have done so much!]] Congressman, this is one of them. And if you don't, you're gonna have to bear the consequences. As regards the unfounded abuse of the police, I would also like to reject it. [[Gábor István Bellozó: Polt was abused...]] I would like to draw the honourable Member's attention to the 1994 XXXIV on the police force. Law 2, too. § 3 which states that the police shall act free of party influence in the performance of their duties. This is a law that our government is upholding. Your government didn't keep it in the autumn of 2006, when it beat the peacemakers to death on 23 October 2006, Congressman. Shame on you for that. That's what I can say right now. The third thing I would like to say is that when you attack the police here, when the police are superhuman, heroically at the southern borders, when you protect Hungary, you protect the Hungarian people - please, Congressman, are you not ashamed when you attack the police unnecessarily? [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: Shame!]] Please stop this attack. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-213	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy.
u2015-11-23-214	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I listened with interest to the words of President Tobias, who was apparently very far from the government, as he forgot that an agreement with the European Commission was signed in 2007, an agreement that defined the use of EU funds from 2007 until the end of 2013. An agreement that resulted in a declaration from the State after no more than two months by the people who signed this document with the European Commission, went to the market and was responsible for the disappearance of a significant part of HUF 8200 billion. An agreement has been signed with the European Commission, which, according to an agreement, has, or is supposed to be, been made for hundreds of millions of forints in the cash register of various MSZPs; we do not know how much of these funds are found in Gábor Simon's bank account. The fact that the EU development system between 2007 and 2013 was completely ineffective for the country is clear to everyone. In 2010, the government undertook to operate a development system in Hungary that could at least bring home the funds that Hungary received by 2014 and try to minimize those that were played out by close businessmen and MSZP politicians between 2007 and 2010. As far as the Public Procurement Act is concerned, I strongly recommend that you be aware at least of the laws which you yourself have been involved in, before you speak, since if you did, you would not say that 50 percent of EU funds are used without public procurement, because if that were the case, the European Commission would not have issued a proper certificate of resource use for Hungary for all four years in the last four years. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-215	Thank you very much. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner.
u2015-11-23-216	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The comments also voiced criticisms of legislation that would not comply with EU standards or the requirements of the rule of law. I'm gonna have to decline that. For example, the rules of the Public Procurement Act are always agreed with the competent bodies of the European Union, the thresholds set out therein, the procedures in place, all within the framework of EU standards. Other legislation, which has been criticised by either the LMP or Jobbik or the MSZP - we can think of transforming the law or the land law here - will also be discussed continuously with Brussels. There are obviously debates about protecting the interests of multinational capital or national interests in these legislations. I report that in all cases we want to give priority to the interests of the Hungarian electorate, and if there are European examples and patterns, we use them in the legislative process. Others may look forward to the moment when companies will be able to acquire land, and therefore the question is very sensitive to them that there will be no state property that could be played out for companies, even foreign property, but this debate is also ahead of us. It is clear that there is a market here too, as Minister János Lázár said, that trade interests are the ones that move the world around here, and that there is an interest in this debate. We also consider values, national values, as a priority. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-217	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bitay Márton Örs.
u2015-11-23-218	Thank you very much for the floor. There's only one thing I want you to do. Although not my area of expertise, President Vona mentioned it, if I remember correctly, then he literally said that it would be interesting in itself if Jobbik could investigate a Russian spy case. For the record alone, I would like to confirm that, therefore, Mr President considers Béla Kovács' case to be a Russian spy case. That's what I wanted for the record. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] Then, if there's a chance later, we'd be happy to hear why you think this is a Russian spy case. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-219	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[16.40]]
u2015-11-23-220	Thank you very much for the floor. Let me go on. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Don't go on because he was very weak. Noise.]] where Secretary Bitay left off. In Parliament's seating schedule, perhaps That chair's in front of a congressman. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] which would also be at the disposal of Béla Kovács to participate in parliamentary debates. [[Ádám Mirkóczki: You don't answer that... The representatives of Jobbik point to a chair in their ranks: Here it is!]] The MEPs here in Parliament have the opportunity to speak, but the Jobbik faction seems to be hiding Béla Kovács. You don't want to create the opportunity to defend yourself here, because you don't seem to have any arguments to defend yourself in this case. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] mixed with illicit party financing and spying [[Ádám Mirkóczki: What prohibited party funding?]] It's kind of a sad scary story. I think it might have been best if he'd stood up to the public once, but it doesn't seem like he's gonna do that. And more importantly, Jobbik is hiding him, Jobbik is not bringing him into Parliament, not giving him the opportunity to speak here, to defend himself, because he probably couldn't defend himself. What's more, he couldn't protect Jobbik from the accusations of illegal party financing and thus corruption crimes. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: What is illicit party funding?]] This was your chance, you could have come in; here is your seat in Parliament, you could have pressed the button. He doesn't press, he doesn't speak because he can't defend himself. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Adam Mirkóczki: Talk about Szilárd Kiss! Lajos Kepli: Lőrinc Butcher!]]
u2015-11-23-221	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman György Balla for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2015-11-23-222	[[Dr. Bernadett Wind is talking to Zoltán Grimlock.]] Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, I'll just wait for Mr. Pride to stop bothering you. The congressman can be annoying, no doubt. [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] You said you've been working five years to make it simple, so we don't steal. Congresswoman! I think you've been working effectively. But his words tell us that it's completely unnecessary. Don't struggle with yourself. Don't struggle with yourself. [[Intercoms and noise from Jobbik's benches: I don't understand!]] I'm sorry, the Jobbik told me you didn't understand. I can't help that. After all, you choose who your representatives are. But then I'll tell you something you might understand. You can yell here in Parliament if you hear a quote, but that quote is still a quote, and it doesn't come from us, but from one of your most important representatives, the Member you've got. [[Pointing to the presidential pulpit.]] I was elected Vice-President of the House in Parliament. And this is how the quote sounds, Member Tamás Sneider said about Gábor Vona's campaign manager activities: It's a quote, not from us, from your inner confidant, Mr. President. [[Interventions from the benches of the governing parties: Whoo-hoo! Dr. Márton Bitay: How quiet it is!]] From your inner confidant! But then I'll also give you a quote about Béla Kovács, which I've heard a lot of things, including some unsettling things that I expect to be answered. Mr President, we are also waiting for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-223	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Sallai Benedek for two minutes.
u2015-11-23-224	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you very much to the pro-government Members for bringing back all the cases of the opposition here. I would like to draw your attention to one thing [[Intruder from the benches of Fidesz: Slow down!]] It has not yet been mentioned, Ági Kunhalmi's lease is the only serious corruption that has not yet been mentioned, so as not to miss such serious cases. [[Defiance and interruptions from Jobbik's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm surprised because there's supposed to be lawyers here, and there's only one thing I don't understand. So here we were talking about Béla Kovács, public debt and all that, what does this have to do with corruption? So here it is, right: crimes against public administration and justice, against the purity of public life; categories of law enforcement crimes; state secrets and secret of service; official crimes; crimes against an official; crimes against justice. Please, you're going to bring up all sorts of little things here, and you're not going to talk about what caused this debate to take place. [[Dr. Répássy Robert's intervention.]] And this is the corruption, the crimes against the purity of public life that brought this debate to light, not on your behalf. [[György Balla's intervention.]] And by the way, Mr. István Hollik has already left the room, and he has mentioned the achievements of the government in anti-corruption. You forgot to tell me one result, and I thought I would quote this: Viktor Orbán is the second most corrupt politician in Europe. The organization of organized crime and corruption, founded in 2006 in Sarajevo, has been the most corrupt leader for many years, and Vladimir Putin won, Viktor Orbán won the second place in the dead race. He was in a great place. In 2013, the Romanian Parliament was still in this position, but he has done better than us. So Hungary is not performing better in this respect. I'll give you another stats. The procedures launched with regard to OLAF: during your governance, the European Union accession summit has been held, so there have been procedures of the European Union Anti-Fraud Office against Hungary since you have been ruling. That is also a fact, but you have failed to say these things, Congressman Hollik. I thought I'd put it to your attention. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-11-23-225	Thank you. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy for two minutes, MSZP.
u2015-11-23-226	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I'm used to this from you, but you've misunderstood me again, you don't understand what I'd like to say. If you've used that word, let me say that I didn't abuse the police, but you, the government. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] - the government that controls the police. That, I suppose, is understandable and clear now. The police would do their job if you let them, but you won't let them - that's the problem. And the reason why I'm saying that the police can't, and I don't expect them to uncover these corruption crimes, is because if they're under the supervision of a corrupt government based on corruption, it's impossible for them to carry out this task. And by the way, this has been proven by the cases and the cases where we filed a complaint, but the police didn't think they wanted to investigate it, even though there was such weak evidence as, say, a recording on which [[Dr. Károly Kontra: You mean the Hagyó case?]] The mayor of Szekszárd has basically given up on how I would like to consider the trade-ops in a corrupt way, and in this, your excellent partner is the High Prosecutor's Office and the Central Investigator's Attorney General's Office. Dear Secretary of State, You told me at the legal level how the police should operate. Yeah, you should. It is subject to these laws. And you would if you didn't give the police orders to cover up these cases. That's the problem. So once again, I'm not criticizing the police as an organization, I'm criticizing police efficiency, which is not because you won't let me. And the fact is, Mr. Secretary, that even for the recipe for fried chicken, you would like to shine the events of 2006 and that is quite simply a smile. We haven't been able to consult each other even though 2006 didn't turn up, and believe me, that's not what I'm talking about. Thank you very much. [[György Balla: Your shame is enough! Applause from the benches of MSZP.]]
u2015-11-23-227	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente.
u2015-11-23-228	Mr. President. Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, I consider it a peculiar and unfortunate Central European phenomenon that, on a parliamentary corruption debate day, parties or parties may participate in a number of former senior government officials still go to court in various serious corruption cases. Just in one of the most notorious cases, there will be a first-degree verdict on Wednesday, the day after tomorrow, in the case of the miscarriage of the Moscow trade agency. [[Zoltán Pride: And now you know what will happen? Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Have you written it yet?]] We are curious and interested to see what the court finds out about those former socialist government officials who have caused the Hungarian state some HUF 20 billion damage by taking this 17 thousand square meters of downtown Moscow property out of the pocket of the Hungarian people for the price of a larger apartment building in Budapest, cutting back almost one more HUF 20 billion to HUF 20 billion. [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: The verdict has been written! Zoltán Grimlock: The Witness!]] Dear House, With one case, the socialists managed to do so much damage to the Hungarian state during the sad period of corruption before 2010 [[Zoltán Grimlock: Szijjárto throws out his million-dollar jacket! How did Szijjárto buy his house?]] This is a case of the size of which, even in that period, was almost unprecedented. Together with this act, this House, the socialists have extended the state-organized corruption practice to an area of state life that had previously been, and was, a major novelty, relatively free from domestic political storms. It was relatively free from state-organised corruption mechanisms, notably in the field of foreign policy. But let's be very specific about what happened, as far as the events can be reconstructed from the perspective of nearly ten years, after all the smokescreens, misconceptions, misconceptions, document counterfeiting carried out by the socialist officials concerned in the last nearly ten years. Dear House, We are talking about a building of 17 thousand square meters, in which 51 hotel rooms were also operated, so the Hungarian state had regular serious revenues from maintaining this building, yet in 2005, the Socialist Government still doesn't know, because of the many misconceptions to date, who ordered it, but it is certain that, in an illegal way, Árpád Székely decided to sign a sales contract - once again without having the legal conditions - with our former Ambassador to Moscow, appointed in 2005, to sell this unique strategic position, which was once in the heart of one of the most expensive cities in the world, one of the world's most economically and politically important metropolises. [[16.50]] He did this at a time when there was, of course, a 10-15-fold difference between the real estate prices in Moscow and Budapest in favour of Moscow. Árpád Székely arrived in Moscow in the summer of 2005, then took up the post of ambassador, and already at the end of this year, after a few months of preparation, he illegally signed a sales agreement with an offshore company based in Luxembourg, a Diamond Air S.a.r.l. With company. Despite the provisions of the law, the Ambassador undertook to sell the building, practically sold this building already in 2005, but the story is actually starting to become interesting, because most of the purchase price did not come at this time, only three years later, after Székely himself admitted that everything he had done for the sale of the property was made by higher order, specifically naming the then Prime Minister. The problem is that already in 2005, part of the purchase price was transferred, so the transaction actually took place at a time when there was no government decision on the sale of Moscow real estate. After that, some two-and-a-half years of pause followed by MNV Zrt. in the spring of 2008. to his surprise, some HUF 3 billion 529 million suddenly appeared in his MNV account, where they said they didn't even know where he came from or what they were getting all this money for. Árpád Székely later said in an interview that he had signed the final sale contract in March 2008 and that all this had preceded the decision of the National Asset Council on 30 July 2008 to open a private sales tender. So once again, just to be able to follow the events: in 2005 our Hungarian Ambassador to Moscow signs a sales contract without legal authority on a higher order, on a Prime Minister's order, to sell the most valuable foreign property in the Hungarian state at a lower price. After that, we will receive the full purchase price in 2008, which is roughly 80 percent of the market price before the government decides on the mechanism under which the property can be sold at all; within the framework of the National Asset Council. But what makes the case really interesting is that in June of this year, in June 2008, there was a certain government meeting on Dobogókő, where a decision was made on the administration of Moscow property, so the government subsequently sanctioned the signature of the three-year-old sales contract, its confirmation three years later, and the relevant decision of the National Property Council. Both decisions, honourable House, were made at the government meeting on the podium, and the decision of the Board of Assets was likely to give a kind of ex post legal framework for the business that had already been concluded without any authorisation. What does God give, dear House, after the tender has been issued ex post, it is to the greatest surprise of Diamond Air S.a.r.l. won as the only company that submitted a tender that complied with the formal requirements. Only in March 2009 did the State Department finally own the building, and here comes the real unexpected turnaround in the story: the Luxembourg offshore company that came into possession of the Moscow commercial branch sold almost seven times the property shortly after the adoption of the building, worth exactly 3.5 billion rubles, or HUF 23.5 billion, after obtaining the building from the Hungarian state for approximately HUF 3.5 billion shortly before, i.e. for the 7th and 8th of the sale price. The Central Investigator's Attorney General's Office opened an investigation in November 2009 on suspicion of a particularly high level of misrepresentation. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] that the illegal sale of the building caused the Hungarian taxpayers direct damage of some HUF 17 billion. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, Is it believable that any one of them would have made a decision on such a large amount without their superiors knowing about it - a number of such officials, by the way - who were involved in the scandal? Is it believable that what happened could have been arranged by you, by means of a subsequent government decision, legitimizing the deal that has already been made? Dear House, What else would a government decision other than that provided for in the 2007 Act mean than that the government entrusted two ministers with the post-papering of the business? This text, as a reminder of the Government meeting, reads: "The removal of the Moscow commercial branch from the state wealth circle has been completed, and the Government has called on the Minister of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the Minister of Finance, to arrange for the purchase of the documents required by the 2007 Act on State Property. The whole story can be considered absurd. Dear House, Other interesting moments can be found in the intricate story. I wonder why György Hunvald, who was also charged with several cases, traveled in the former VII. on the private plane of the district socialist mayor in conjunction with Minister of Finance János Veres and Ambassador Árpád Székely in Moscow during the sale period? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Diplomat passport as Szijjártó!]] According to Horváthné Feksi Márta, when he asked Miklós Tátrai what could have happened in this Moscow trial, the former MNV leader who had been convicted since then only replied:. It is none of your business. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The Socialist Party that caused such proven damage to the country before 2010 [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You proved yourself because you said so, huh?]] At a time when state-organized corruption, honourable House, such a party, I think, in 2015 it has no right, no moral authority or title to express itself in any respect on matters of corruption [[Zoltán Grimlock: Do you forbid it?]] rather than criticising the government that has revealed these maladministrations, and we hope that, during which government's regency, the necessary decisions in the framework of independent justice will be taken. [[Anita Bering: And this with an unbridled face!]] Dear House, thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Good thing you didn't laugh.]]
u2015-11-23-229	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have a pre-arranged statement. I give the floor to Vice President Gulyás Gergely, Fidesz.
u2015-11-23-230	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Socialist Party wants to hold a day of debate on corruption is a political absurdity. This also qualifies the parties who signed with them the initiative to support such an initiative after the socialist government period between 2002 and 2010 with the support of the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party. However, it is even more absurd and impossible for my fellow Member Barándy to feel that at the end of his speech, he has the opportunity to threaten government representatives with prison. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Only those who deserve it, Gergő! Dr. Márton Bitay: That's not what you said!]] Let us be clear here among ourselves, despite socialist traditions: as there is no collective decency or collective unfairness [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: We agree!]] there is no collective guilt, even if the traditions of the predecessor of the Hungarian Socialist Party are completely contrary. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Nobody said anything else, Gergő!]] As regards the comments on the functioning of the Hungarian State, we have, of course, made criticisms of the administration of justice. We believe that the kind of accountability, accountability and accountability that took place after 2010 due to government corruption cases between 2002 and 2010 is very small compared to the level that has characterised corruption during these periods. As far as the DA's office is concerned, we can say that the prosecutor's office will receive special support in order to operate an anti-corruption division, which will be the subject of 15 separate prosecutors. Of course, we understand that even in spite of and because of the small indictment of the crimes committed, the Socialist Party views Péter Polt as a political target, but the Socialist Party's view does not change the reality that Péter Polt became the deputy of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights with your support, with the votes of the Hungarian Socialist Party. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: All three have been appointed, Gergő. Don't act like you don't know. The president's ringing the bell.]] We believe that if membership of the Communist Party was not an exclusion for important state positions, then the fact that a person has played a role in a democratic party for a few years after the change of regime cannot be such an exclusion. [[17.00]] Not to mention that we probably have a fundamentally different attitude and view of Árpád Göncz and Árpád Göncz as, let's say, the Socialist Party and we do, but I think that the President's consideration and judgement of the former President of the Republic should be criticized to such an extent, because he was the one who first nominated Péter Polt as the Chief Prosecutor, by no means appropriate. (The chair is Dr. István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament.) All we can say about the prosecution's activities is that a number of corruption cases have been prosecuted that have subsequently been proven. It is enough to draw attention to the recent condemnation of Miklós Tátrai, to consider the case of the former vice-president of the MSZP, Gábor Simon, or to the judgment of the former Socialist Minister of Defence and László Fapál in recent days. With regard to Jobbik, it is worth noting that, of course, an opposition party can make demagogic proposals. Gábor Vona did the same when he linked the abolition of immunity and corruption, since all corruption crimes are crimes to be prosecuted. The Hungarian Socialist Party sitting next to you, who initiated this debate, did not suspend someone's immunity in public cases. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What about Miklós Simon?]] But we, the Fidesz Group and the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party have always voted in favour of the suspension of immunity in public cases and have never come before the Parliament of corruption where the Fidesz and the Christian Democratic People's Party Group would not have supported the suspension of immunity. The immunity that the Members are entitled to is suitable for the low-weight defamations you have committed here in bulk, otherwise you will get away with it. This may, however, be supported in the interests of freedom of expression and may also be necessary for the performance of the mandate of its representatives. We have also thought about the abolition of the statute of limitations before, especially when there was a Prime Minister in office in the country, the Socialists still supported it, but since then Ferenc Gyurcsány, who has been accused of stealing them, who were found by the Public Prosecutor's Office only to be protected from criminal prosecution in the Fittelina case. At the time, this was no obstacle for the Socialist Party to maintain the support of Ferenc Gyurcsány. Another question is whether it proved to be a good business after all, when it comes to corruption. We believe that the accusations made by the LMP are impossible only because it is said that this country is now weakened or weakened by 2010 and that it is as absurd as the fact that we cannot face ourselves. Undoubtedly, we can look in the mirror, but not in our own eyes, Congresswoman has asked us to look at the latter, and we are indeed not yet able to do so. If we look at the laws that the Parliament has passed in recent years, we must first of all state that if the law on parliamentary party financing is not perfect and even needs to be clarified, it will, in principle, enable the LMP to run for an election with equal opportunities. The Party Finance Act and the Act on Party Foundations and the support of factions also demonstrate that state aid for the costs of the election campaign is available to political parties. In the past, this was not guaranteed, and in addition, in the past, there was a ceiling on campaign costs that made these rules very difficult to comply with. We have adapted these to reality, and in order to ensure equal opportunities, we have provided this kind of campaign support to all parties at state level, and we believe that the LMP in this respect could even give recognition to the government's performance. The adopted Public Procurement Act, the Public Procurement Act adopted a few weeks or months ago, introduces more stringent rules of conflict of interest than ever before, and we also note that it tightens the procedure, makes the payment of public funds more transparent, introduces additional limits and transparency limits in the restricted procedure. We believe that the functioning of the system of institutions of the rule of law here in Hungary is also confirmed by the fact that you have also made numerous appeals to the Constitutional Court that the Constitutional Court has given you the truth against the parties of government. Of course, what can be done is that the opposition repeats these accusations over and over again, but that does not change the fact that reality denies your accusations. Overall, I can say that, of course, the political elite can do what is necessary to put his politics at the heart of the other party's accusation of corruption, and the Hungarian Socialist Party chose this for a very incomprehensible reason. Jobbik and LMP have not yet been in government; perhaps this objective is somewhat more understandable, but in the longer term it must be made clear that there is an individual responsibility. This government has never wanted to tolerate corruption, and it will continue to do everything it can to combat it. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-231	Thank you very much. Good evening, everyone. We'll get back to work. Congressman Bertalan Tóth, MSZP, please.
u2015-11-23-232	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Today's debate is very exciting, as we can see a whole new method in the history of the debates, at least since I am a Member, a completely surprising scenario is taking place here. You can see and feel that this is a very sensitive subject for you, because someone, obviously the Prime Minister, has assigned the secretary of state, young Titans, to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Perhaps even some kind of training has been organised for this, entrusting some outside expert for good money, probably all consulted Árpád Habony that now, we must defend the honour of the mundér. And I am very sorry, and I would wonder, if I were you, why you did not take part, for example, on the day of debate on migration, on the day of debate on land affairs, or on the day of the debate on poverty. They must have sent the victim who had to sit through those four hours, but now they're marching up in full blood and running about with various cases. But allow me to respond briefly to one or two comments, and I would also like to mention two cases that could be discussed here in Parliament, and you may well explain it. It is very interesting to hear the name of Lajos Simicska, listening to the words of one of the Secretarys of State. However, I would have wondered if a year ago, or I don't know when, this ominous argument took place, but let's say, a year ago, any of the Fidesz MEPs would have talked about it, although perhaps John Lazarus was already so brave and took it out of his mouth. We are hearing from Viktor Orbán here that he is accusing Jobbik of enjoying mercenary cosmos. And I'll ask you, do you miss him, Mr. Secretary? And one thing, indeed, by confirming my fellow Member, Mr Gergely Bárándy, I personally made a lot of complaints, and the police and the prosecutor's office refuse to press charges on such grounds that I am deeply concerned that I may have the error. So I'm also going to look into whether you can enroll in a course at the University of Public Service, or if I should re-learn the Criminal Code, because you're making up some pretty amazing reasons, but I'll deal with this on one of the cases. The other, we are back at Lajos Simicska, and here we were able to hear how EU funds disappeared during the socialists' time, so what percentage of construction investments did Lajos Simicska manage to win in public procurements, which included OLAF investigations, and for example, you stopped such an investment? Or to what extent was Lőrinc Mészáros able to participate in various EU investments in sewerage projects? It would have been worth talking about, I think. Although he was talking about hundreds of millions of forints, I was talking about several tens or even hundreds of billions of forints, which are hand-in-hand to their various friends; though: they had friends, allow me to use that term. And listening to Hungarian Levente, we mentioned here in the benches that we were actually thinking of the film A Witness, although we were born about the same time, so it was an old film for us, but it seems that you watched it several times. So, to use terms that will be delivered in two days' time, and you will read the verdict here to us, and you will hope that condemnable sentences will be made, so that we can advance the independent justice system, that they will obviously make a decision that is obviously pleasant for you. But he also mentioned a date, so in response, allow me a sentence: the complaint started in 2009, didn't it? It's like you weren't on the government. There is, therefore, a huge difference between pending cases and current cases, my fellow Members and secretary of state, that there is a procedure in those cases. But in your cases, in which any action we take, the investigating authority won't bother to order a single investigation. [[17.10]] And if he gets there - and now my fellow Member Gulyás is not here, but I am also responding to his sentences - if he orders an investigation, then it is you who do not grant immunity. I refer to the case of Congressman Miklós Simon, where his partner was convicted of the case, and the court described in the grounds that he was not convicted because the Honourable Parliament did not cast your votes. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Now, that's a shame!]] His immunity. So here's where Fidesz and Gergely Gulyás apply double standards. [[Dr. Répássy Robert intervenes.]] And Gergely Gulyás also applies double standards there, that while he questions the Hungarian Socialist Party and this faction, on what basis this community dares to make any comment or question, while he himself asks for the accusation of collective guilt, which my fellow Member Barándy did not do; so he asks himself, yes, there are those who sin, but therefore, overall, there is nothing to say to Members and questions the MSZP as a community to participate in this debate at all. I have said two cases that I would like to make very brief. One evidence of what János Lázár mentioned in a private conversation is that legislation is born because different lobby groups enforce their interests. You are familiar with the case of gasput, when cheap gas could have been imported into Hungary and delivered to district heating providers, instead an offshore company was given the opportunity to pay 100-150 billion to the owners of offshore companies, among whom we will find Viktor Orbán's cable friend, István Garancsi. I also filed a complaint in this case, to which the police replied that I could not prove that a crime had been committed - I do not think that would be the duty of the prosecutor. Then, in the same case, as soon as I received the papers from the Hungarian Electricity Company, I made two more complaints, but there the respected police said that I had already closed this case, and I do not wish to deal with it. It could be calculated how much more could have been given to Hungarian households in these few years in the reduction of gas prices and energy prices or especially in the reduction of energy prices, but you didn't choose this path, but you sent it to this company, and, I repeat, we are talking about HUF 100-150 billion. The other example is that you have made laws. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi intervenes.]] For example, the Hungarian National Property Act, in which it is prohibited to enter into a contract with a company with an opaque ownership background, and an amendment to the Public Finance Act was also made, in which it was stated that a non-profit state-owned company could place its free funds solely on a treasury note at the Treasury and manage its account exclusively at the Treasury, but these companies broke these laws. And here I mentioned Magyar Levente, the Minister of State, Magyar Kereskedőház Zrt. He didn't sign a contract with Quaestor, even though he was a Liechtenstein-owned company with an opaque ownership background, yet they were able to trust him with HUF 4 billion, and according to police documents, the Hungarian budget lost more than HUF 60 million because the interest rates didn't return. But I could mention the Savings Management Directorate, which placed HUF 410 million at Hungária Zrt. in violation of the Public Finance Act, which was a clear violation of law, and there was a financial disadvantage. Mr. Secretary of State Kontra, I have filed a complaint - and here comes the fact that one is in doubt in his criminal knowledge - the prosecutor's office said that he has violated the Public Finance Act, that there is a financial disadvantage, but he doesn't see the causal link, and as an incriminator, I should have proved it to me in the prosecution's rejection paper, that there was a causal link between his illegal placement of HUF 410 million in a company in violation of law. [[Dr. Répássy Robert intervenes.]] There was a financial disadvantage, yeah, but there was no causal relationship between the two. Explain that to me. It was, and I'm sorry, it wasn't the police, it was the prosecution's answer. And then I started to think about how you could write such nonsense down, and this question was asked by my fellow Member to the Attorney General, and then I realized why TIG Zrt. had to do this: because it turned out that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs - we could hear his State Secretary here - placed tens of billions of forints of Eximbank portfolios at Quaestor, and the same general government law applies to ministries, so he couldn't have deposited money with an external organisation, just and only with the Treasury, and that the prosecutor's office wrote the same thing that there was an infringement, stop, there is a financial disadvantage, yeah, there is no causal link between the two. That should be the answer to how this can happen. Ladies and gentlemen, These cases also highlight the fact that, while there are many, many cases that you have set out to illustrate - and we will be able to listen to them here at a later stage, obviously, they are prepared for this, I see that the scripts are equipped for this, but there is only one difference: in these cases, which I mentioned or we mention, there are no procedures in these cases, no investigation is ordered. I would very much like to know if, for example, those in Romania who are responsible for this, would be on the loose or not, I would be very curious. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said here as a proposal, but I am also suggesting that it would be worth setting up a truly independent anti-corruption prosecutor's office, even under Parliament, which reveals every matter. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi intervenes.]] And there is no collective guilt, individuals who commit these acts, and let the investigations begin, and whoever made a mistake, as my fellow Member Gulyás mentioned, will go through the course of justice and be just and a judgment that will either establish it or not, so I would not prejudicate here, as the Secretary of State did. It would be worth examining this point. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-23-233	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Congressman György Balla, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-234	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Congressman Bertalan Tóth explained that he, with his knowledge of criminal law, did not understand the prosecution's answer and made a suggestion that a public prosecutor's office would be required. Mr. Congressman, the case is that the prosecutor's office is not under the government, and Parliament has to report it, so everything you have wanted to ask for has been like this for some 25 years. Let me just add that your criminal skills really have a lot to work with. [[Dr. Répássy Robert and Dr. Bertalan Tóth intervene.]] Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, When I was preparing for this debate day, I evidently began to wonder why the opposition wanted such a debate day; the opposition, which is full of corruption issues, why it wanted such a debate day. Why don't you think about the fact that at present two Members have been brought into the proceedings and both are oppositional [[Dr. Bertalan Tóth: Well, that's it!]] Mr Dezső, one of the Members of Parliament who is involved in a socialist corruption case, is being prosecuted and his immunity has to be granted, and the other is Béla Kovács, the party funder of Jobbik. [[A comment from Jobbik's ranks: So, what now?]] These two Members are the only ones who are otherwise being prosecuted. Then, of course, I tried to find answers to my questions as to why the opposition needs this debate day. With regard to the MSZP, I have a good-for-nothing response: I think that it was initiated because they undoubtedly appear to be experts in corruption. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It could even be said that, taking into account their three-cycle governance, this is the only way they will be seen as experts. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties. Sándor Burány: Hahaha! Dr. Gábor Staudt intervenes. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Because it's not everyday - maybe the better Members will like it. [[There's an interrogation from Jobbik's ranks:]] - 'Cause it's not every day that a party's second man, his vice president, has to be taken on a prisoner belt a year and a half ago. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That's right!]] And a few days ago, a former minister of the Presidency, a former minister, is the court's testimony to being a corrupt public criminal. [[Gábor Vona: What about them?]] That is why, I think, world summit, honourable Members, very few parties can say that about themselves, what the socialists may have said. [[17.20]] I also understand why the socialists insisted on doubling the timeframe. I guess it's because if you're gonna tell me all the dirty stuff that's stuck to your hands, you're gonna have to talk a lot for 92 minutes. The purpose of Jobbik is much simpler. Let's talk about them. They're trying to act like a dead virgin. But the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is, Mr President, that until last Tuesday, we might have succeeded in doing so. It's just that last Tuesday, I lost the cover of cremation and virginity. Today, Jobbik reminds me of a girl on the side of the road that anyone can get more than a proper daughter-in-law. Last week you faced all your promises, went against everything you said five years ago, abandoned the Hungarian farmers and announced that you wanted to fight alongside the big owners. You have prevented the future owners of state land, Hungarian farmers, from collecting a fair rent from large owners who are currently renting some of the land. You, President Vona, you, fellow Members, have sold the Hungarian farmers in exchange for News TV and the Hungarian Nation. [[The Foreman of Novak: A pause of influence. No applause. Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] But if I may, I would like to begin a brief journey of time, simply to understand the events of the present. Maybe everyone remembers a gentleman named Tamás Suchman. It is likely that his activities could fill all the time we have today. [[Forebod Novak: Farkas with Flórie!]] However, it is certainly appropriate to discuss one of many cases in which it may even appear that some of us could agree at the beginning. He was the one who played the entire Hungarian energy sector into the hands of foreigners without any reason. All gas suppliers, all electricity suppliers, and then, with the support of the socialists, have dramatically increased the price of these services. Not once, not twice, but twenty-six times. The Hungarian people had to pay hundreds of thousands more for this, and hundreds of thousands more were paid to allow the multinationals to bring home as much profit as possible from the transferred wealth. And there is a question of why this is corruption. Maybe it's stupid. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that Tamás Suchman, János Veres, Ildikó Lendvai or anyone else was stupid. In the case of late successors, I admit that there is a basis for debate, there is a reason to argue about it, but I think that all those who argue that what they do is stupid should not believe it. Although I also have to say that, listening to them today, I wavered in this opinion. Tamás Suchman himself was able to say so much about this story: not him, not the MSZP is corrupt, but the world. Let's just put it this way: the world of the MSZP is corrupt. That's exactly how it sounds. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]] I told you all this to see what the Hungarian government had to do. We had to get the Hungarian gas and Hungarian electricity assets back, we had to get back the gas wholesale, we had to create the non-profit utility company. This was the condition for the reduction of the rent. That is fine until then, you know, Mr President, Mr Vona, that the MSZP was totally opposed to buying back Hungarian gas wholesale. But how do you explain that you have been bidding on the MSZP for any kind of investigation? They were talking nonsense about this case. When the story was about preventing the price of Hungarian gas from being agreed not by the Germans and the Russians, but by the Hungarians, shouldn't you have had to support it if it had been so virginal opposition party, Mr President? [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] Shouldn't you have supported this, Mr. President? We understand why the socialists didn't support it, but we may also understand why you didn't support it. There's a right to suspect. Once again, it is the case that the Germans and the Russians agreed on the price of Hungarian gas in connection with the gas wholesale trade earlier. The fact that the gas market could be reclaimed clearly did not please either the Germans or the Russians. He wasn't supported by the MSZ or the Jobbik. There is a legitimate suspicion as to how much Béla Kovács has to do with this, representing foreign interests. He is the one whose immunity has been suspended by the European Parliament because of espionage; so he is obviously serving foreign interests, and with whom Gábor Vona could only say that I have heard many things, among them ambiguous things that I expect to be answered. So do we, Mr. President. We are, too, honourable right-wing Members. We are waiting, because Béla Kovács is not only your parliamentary representative, but also your party funder. [[Forebod Novak: How much did he transfer to our account?]] He's the one who's paying for the Jobbik's party pot. But what money? What is the origin of these money? Where did these money come from? Which foreign power pays Béla Kovács for information? And what did Béla Kovács demand of you in exchange for the money? These are the questions that we expect to be answered, Mr. President. These are the questions you should answer, President Vona. It also makes me wonder that the State Audit Office has found that in 12 cases you, my honourable fellow Members, have not shown where the money came from in your register. Oh, my God. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] You are proud of Béla Kovács. Who are the ones who are denied? If they're proud of Béla Kovács, who are they afraid to admit? If it isn't those mobsters you're supposed to be in contact with, as your party partner, one of the most influential right-handers, vice president of Parliament, said, more precisely, on a leaked recording. Are we talking about these mobsters, Mr. President? Ladies and gentlemen, We talked about energy issues. I can't miss Congressman Józsa. Well, he's still sitting in Parliament. You remember Paks, don't you? You will remember that I believe that the socialists have supported Paks II enlargement continuously for 15 years. There was no industrial camera that didn't declare how important this was. István Józsa was in the lead, who was the party's energy politician, the number one energy politician. Then it turned out that István Józsa was digging not only with both hands, but with the Machine Choir in the Paks money. His company, Machine Faculty, took over 6 billion forints of money out of Paks. This ended in 2010, the corruption ended, and interestingly, István Józsa and the MSZP are now constantly speaking against Paks. [[Anita Herring: That's not true either!]] [[17 .30]] I'm sorry if you can't hear me, but I'm just saying that a socialist Member is yelling that it's not true either. What do you want me to say? They do it every day. They're holding a press conference on this, and they're denying what they've been saying for half a day. All I can say is that you really are excellent students of Ferenc Gyurcsány. Let's talk about another story, because it was also very interesting, and it was particularly interesting for national affairs. [[Anita Beringes: How can someone have skin so thick on their face?]] I must say, unfortunately, I cannot distinguish between opposition parties here either. I'd love to, but I can't. Do you remember, I have heard from Congresswoman Bernadett Wind that the person concerned is here in this Chamber; I am very pleased that she may recognize you. But I'd like to ask you if you still remember that personality-happy former NAV worker with his own demons, who was hacking around with an empty green dossier, and among your enthusiastic applause, he said his nonsense about VAT fraud. To whom you are, this is only true of the socialists, even organized a protest. The one you guys from Jobbik to MSZP, that's true of everyone, they starred enthusiastically. And then they all spoke out loud about reducing VAT fraud. But when something could have been done, what happened? Then they voted no. For example, have they supported the introduction of online cash registers? They didn't support it. Its purpose and its means are obvious: it was clearly about preventing VAT fraud. And now everyone can see that we have the result, we owe 227 billion forints, we failed to cheat 227 billion forints because of online cash registers. Come on, a man who fights against the black economy with such a fight and a demonstration as you fights against VAT fraud, like you, why didn't he take the courage to make a good proposal that would benefit the country, say, vote? Because, fellow Members, I suspect that you are one and the same. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-23-235	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The next speaker was Mr János Volner, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-236	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague György Balla, I would like to respond briefly to this, which you defined as the great corruption scandal of the century. Béla Kovács, in accordance with the rules of the Party Act, has paid less into Jobbik's party register, as has been done by other individuals, than a government company head, my fellow Member, can earn a monthly payment on the basis of the laws you have made. Let's fix this. That is factually correct. This is how you modified the legislation, that you can earn 5 million forints now, plus premium, plus extra wage benefits. Béla Kovács paid less as required by the party law. So this lie has been solved. [[György Balla: Did you or did you not pay?]] It is also very important to see that if corruption damages HUF 400 billion directly to Hungary according to international corruption research organisations, what further damage will be done. At a time when you, Fidesz MEPs, are confronted with the fact that it is the entrepreneurs and businessmen of Viktor Orbán's immediate environment, who, without exception, always have the source of their enrichment, that they enter into very fruitful economic contracts with the state or local governments, the answer is always to press charges. Congressman! We could put a whole car full of completed and rejected charges because you're not doing anything about it. [[György Balla: Be informed!]] It is also important to see that, when the Prime Minister defends that certain legislative provisions have been adopted by Parliament, i.e. a fidesz majority of Parliament, of course, and therefore they no longer constitute a crime, because they have ensured that this can be done legally - to give an example from the recent past: a week ago, for example, the Law on Gambling was amended in a favourable manner to Andy Vajna, legally, as a white-collar criminal, they put money into the pocket of a nearby Fidesz entrepreneur, a government commissioner, because it is quite simply possible for the Orbán government to do so. Most of them are here in Parliament, they're voting for it. We saw the same thing when the socialists were ruling. What I see now is that people all over the country are fed up with continuing a series of unscrupulous corruptions for 25 years. People won't let this happen in 2018! And believe me, György Balla, this is why Jobbik became not a small part of the Fidesz party, the most powerful force of the opposition. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's what they said in 2014.]] Because you can make fun of it, but factually, people see that if someone can end this 25-year-old theft, it's Jobbik, and there's a chance that this country will finally go in a more normal direction. I also think it is very important to say that it is not only 400 billion forints that fall out of the budget that damage Hungary's corruption, but it is also about the fact that the system of corruption contrasts the Hungarian entrepreneurial society. Because from the state, as the largest customer of the Hungarian economy, public procurement does not go to otherwise competitive companies, public money does not go there, state aid goes there, but to companies that have very good, fruitful economic relations with politicians. This is what is ruining the Hungarian economy, fellow Members! Because these people, who could become billionaires from the Fidesz environment or before the MSZP environment in this way, cannot create market-based, fair competitive firms, they cannot employ people. Many times they only operate branches, a company of one or two, who takes on a multibillion-dollar order and then passes it on to subcontractors, and Hungarian subcontractors, Hungarian small people and workers at the end of the line are not paid for, because they can do this with them. Because politics is helping with this white-collar crime. It is also worth considering how Andy Vajna, the government commissioner of the Orbán government, is getting the new billions in his pocket by assisting Fidesz with the lawmaking machine to make even more money. How did Árpád Habony get a municipal apartment downtown? He was in need, what do you say? The guy who walks around in 400,000 forints of antelope leather pants with luxury cars and he's a hell of a good spender? Did he need it? Why did Lőrinc Ripper become the nation's gas mechanic, a multibillionaire? How come he's a career in public procurement? Are you sure it's a coincidence? Dear Fidesz Voters! I ask you: do you really believe that Viktor Orbán does not know about these matters? Well, these people work in your immediate vicinity. Tibor Garancsi is the owner of the Videoton football club. The company MET took out a dividend of HUF 50 billion last year, making it one of the largest ten dividend-paying companies in Hungary. What was the basis for this? The fact that a public company had concluded a contract with him that was purely administratively papered something on which they made serious billions, and in the end they took 50 billion forints of dividends from this one company. To use the words of L. Simon László, well, ladies and gentlemen, this is business. This is Fidesz's business, and it's just one of many, because we bring these specific cases to Parliament every day. So when Viktor Orbán talks about the legalisation of the corruption system in these cases, therefore it is no longer corruption, I certainly dispute this statement, and if we are going to go to government, we will, of course, very closely review the legality of these cases by setting up an anti-corruption prosecutor's office. It is also important to see that the system of Hungarian corruption was not a stand-alone thing; Fidesz did not charge MSZP and MSZP for Fidesz because there was no trace of corruption, but because they jointly carried out the infrastructure investments with the largest money for years. Look at any major infrastructure investment in the country in recent years. Railroad construction, highway construction, anything. One thing can be seen: Fidesz close companies work peacefully and in the highest agreement with left-wing companies, and that is why, when the government changed between Fidesz and MSZP in the last 25 years, they never really wanted one party to account for the other, because they were in the party together. [[17.40]] They did it together, peacefully and as consortium partners, they took billions of public procurements, and when the Hungarian average citizen is looking for an explanation that in Hungary, it may cost twice or three times as much a kilometer of motorway as in a neighbouring country, the answer is very simple. Fidesz and MSZP have stolen this country, overpriced public procurements, and thus raised their own billionaire layer of media empires, and now Andy Vajna may be trying to repay the intention of buying TV2 by the government with generous billions of casinos. But we see one thing: this system can no longer be maintained, and now I see that citizens think so, in increasing numbers in the country, that is why Fidesz will be cleaned up in 2018, and that is why Jobbik can come and we can show that this country can be governed fairly. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-237	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Mr Zsolt Szabó State Secretary, Ministry of National Development applied to speak. Out of line, he's next. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-238	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to two points raised by our fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth. One of them is the subject of MVM Partner's gas contracts, on which the substance was fully received by the Member on 30 April of this year, so, if I may, some clarification on the material he has contributed to on the basis of these materials. In 2012-13, MVM Partner Zrt. negotiated with Tigáz Zrt. and GDF Suez. on gas supply. In particular, there was capacity utilisation, on which some false information was also seen in the press, and I would like to clarify this. There were clearly no business and risk management parameters provided by the MVM Partner, so MVM Partner requested data and information from additional gas suppliers and gas dealers. One point is E.ON Natural Gas Trade Ltd. It was, and the other was MET Zrt. Finally, MET Zrt. the most appropriate offers were made. At the end of the day, I'd like to discuss this in numerical terms. The other thing that came up was the contract for the next year, the gas year 2013-14. This was also the place where MET Zrt. and Főgáz Zrt. were asked for an offer, the best of the two companies was MET's offer.2014. Since July 1, MVM Partner has had no contact with any of the companies above. The gas capacity connection service is now entirely owned by the Hungarian Gas Dealer Zrt. You should take care of it. What is interesting about this whole case is that the contracts have been screened and screened, there is an expert material available on this. This is KPMG Consulting Ltd. He did this peer review. Another thing that is perhaps still important in terms of numbers is that gas purchase prices have decreased by about 15-20 percent over the last three years, which has strengthened the positive profitability of MVM Partner's natural gas market activity. This made it possible to reduce household costs and to purchase cheap natural gas for the supply of hospitals, schools, district heating plants and other public institutions. The other subject that our fellow Member raised is the investments in the sewers themselves, and some of our fellow Members, as well as some businesses, persons. Let's not forget two factors. One: our expected investment obligation resulting from the derogation was already established in 2003-2004 by law in the pre-accession period. From 2007 until 2013 the contracts already launched during the MSZP government, where investors were actually selected and these channel investments were implemented in two to three years, took place in the previous EU cycle. So let us not forget that these investments have not just started, but have taken over a longer period, and here, too, legally, while respecting them, these contracts were concluded on the basis of the current public procurement law at the time. So these are part of the accuracy, and our fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, is aware of this, and he knows it very well. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-239	Thank you very much. State Secretary Péter Benő Banai has applied to speak on behalf of the government. Here.
u2015-11-23-240	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, With regard to Mr János Volner's comments, allow me to draw attention to three short things. One of the key things about corruption is whether public funds migrate into private pockets or what the government does to prevent it. As far as concrete actions are concerned, I have seen since 2010 that, both in the tax area and in other legislation, the government has taken countless steps to increase the revenue of the budget by public funds. Congressman Balla mentioned the online cash register linking system, but we could talk about how the new tax office was strengthened from 2010 onwards, with what investigative authorities it has expanded, and, yes, how the public funds and budget revenues have increased. As regards the specifics, let me, as a second point, remind everyone in the context of gambling that, in 2012, instead of a liberalised gaming room market, the government developed a strict, centrally controlled and supervised gaming casino system at the same time as the cessation of gaming machines. As regards the question of how much has been entered into the central budget, whether the central budget has given over funds to private investors, I should point out that last year the relevant tax revenues amounted to more than HUF 34 billion instead of HUF 33 billion previously calculated. Thus, public revenue has not decreased, but has increased. The third thing I draw attention to is the rules on public procurement, to which Mr President has also drawn attention. We agree that strict rules are necessary, which is why the Government has submitted to Parliament a new law on public procurement which, in our view, leads to clear, transparent rules for all investments financed by domestic and European Union funds. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-241	Secretary of State Tamás Vargha, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, asked for the floor on behalf of the government. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-242	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr. József Tóbias, leader of the group, attempted to define state-level corruption and find it. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: He did it!]] I think that there is no need to go too far that if we are looking for state-level corruption, it can be found in ministries and state institutions. If we look back in the spring of 2010, before the 2010 elections, we will see that the Hungarian Defence Office has experienced the most difficult moments in its life after the change of regime, when the Military Security Office staff caught a military officer in action as he took bribe money in a parking lot in Budapest, and soon it was discovered and proved that the threads of the case led to the Ministry of Defence, its background institutions and its leaders. And that brings us to state-wide corruption. So what we see is that in 2010 there was chaos in the Ministry and its background institutions before Fidesz was formed as a government, a structure without transparent and irresponsible management and all aspects of efficiency. There have been many cases of misappropriation, suspicions of public procurement offences and counterfeiting of documents, and cases of suspicion of more than 45 counts of criminal offences. At the time, 7 companies were involved in the management of the property of the defence portfolio, and in 5 of these cases, there was evidence of a financial disadvantage of nearly HUF 1.8 billion, and the absurd condition was that the basic tasks of the Hungarian Defence Agency were performed by private companies. [[17.50]] And then, Congressman Gergely Bárándy brought up various classified cases of social crime, and here is the crime of commercial bribery, which was reported as a General's trial, which began on 18 January 2010, and the first accusations were made after the act. The investigation lasted a year, and then in March 2011 there was an indictment, 17 defendants: three Brigadier Generals, six Colonels, two Lt-Cols, one Major and four civilians; and among them was László Fapál, the Administrative Secretary of State of the Gyurcsány government, who has already been mentioned today. Between 2002 and 2010, more than 200 million forints were requested and received from the portfolio supplier or applicant companies. And in his statement to the 16th accused prosecutor's office, he said that on one occasion he had delivered HUF 12 million to László Fapál, who put four million in a box and said it would be for the boss. The boss was then Ferenc Juhász, who was Minister of Defence at the time. According to the prosecution's indictment, the crime of the defendants was based on the introduction of a retribution system whereby the contracted civilian companies returned part of the military commission fees; and according to one of the confessions, these funds could have been used by the top executives. According to the Metropolitan Court Panel acting at second instance, there were serious procedural violations in the first instance proceedings. Also, Congressman Gergely Bárándy has asked me why we do not speak of acquittal judgments, although this judgment ended with an exemption, but the Metropolitan Court has stated that this is unfounded, that its facts are incomplete, that the court failed to comply with its obligation to state reasons, and that the decision to separate the two defendants' cases was wrong. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: That's why the third degree is coming.]] According to the panel court, the prosecution's appeal for a new procedure was thorough, so it ordered a repeated first instance procedure of the case, which has now been resumed before the Debrecen Tribunal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-243	Thank you very much. We will return to your speeches. Congressman Lajos Szűcs is next, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-244	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to start with some packaging material. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi:]] You may remember: taxi driver Gyuszi, plastic bag; Miklós Hagyó, nokis box; László Fapál, whiskey box; János Zuschlag, plastic bag. [[Zoltán Proud: Zuschlag is your friend!]] These cases, I think, have a significant definition of the public life of the past period, and if we can agree on something in the initiative of this day of debate, it is a sentence where we are speaking about the fact that, for example, the first instance judgment in the Kulcsár case is not even valid in the Hungarian courts. If there is something to be said about, it is precisely that Hungarian society is right to expect answers from the judiciary in these matters, too, but fortunately, the principle of separation of powers also results in us being given only one political opportunity to speak in these matters, and, as has been said earlier, we are trying to create laws that can be avoided. But I think it is very right that we are also talking about the things, the legislative processes that have characterised this House in the past, as Parliamentary Secretary Peter Benő Banai has said, a lot of legislation has come into being which can make the economy much whiter today. We have spoken here - only in terms of terms of time - about the introduction of online cash registers, which had great opponents in opposition benches. We have talked about the introduction of an electronic road traffic control system, which was once again opposed by a large number of opponents, even though they represent a very significant revenue for the state budget, and on the other hand they can be very helpful in whitening the economy. We can talk about a system that is 5 percent reduced VAT for certain medical devices and for live and half pigs, which has once again been able to avoid very serious abuse. We can talk about a reduction in corporate tax, which can lead not only to competitiveness but also to non-disclosure of the profits of companies. We could also talk about Kata, even reducing personal income tax to 16%, and increasing the efficiency of tax collection. We could talk, and it is important to mention at the end of 2015 that we help people with a simplified tax return, and we do not need to submit tax returns to 1.5 million people next year and 3.5 to 3.8 million people from 2017 onwards. We could talk about the broker scandals and the surface of them. For example, we could talk about Péter Schiffer, who was at the same time noted as the best paid historian in Hungary, who was even able to change the law to cover up his history degree, even the Ministry of MSZP of Draskovics. We could talk about the fact that this year's break-out broker scandals have led to the fact that, from 2013 onwards, the Financial Institutions' State Supervisory Board has become a member of the National Bank, and if these financial institutions had been investigated under the old system, for example, Quaestor or Buda-Cash should have waited until 2018. And we could also talk, my fellow Members, about the fact that, in recent times, there have been a number of cases that have caused people serious problems with the facts about social expectations. For example, the Hajdú-Bét-, Baumag-, the Globex case. But one thing is that these cases were found out, but one thing the government at the time was indebted to is compensation. In the case of both Buda-Cash and Quaestor, the government and legislation, we have all tried to move towards compensation, obviously in the new situation we are also looking for a solution after the judgment of the Constitutional Court to make the compensation of as many people as possible. But we could talk about the fact that, in your time, in recent times, there has been no legal background to this, because Beva was not fit to pay these sums. And let us also talk about what was on the agenda before the issue, that the claimants were compensated for more than HUF 86 billion by Beva, and this circle is about 98 percent. And we need to mention again a Kft called the Machine Faculty, which is more than HUF 6 billion 607 thousand. has taken out of the Hungarian taxpayers' money. We could talk here about the loan of the Association of Free Democrats with the Hungarian Development Bank of some HUF 415 million, for which Hungarian taxpayers should be able to survive outside of some real estate right now. We could talk about the affairs of former Minister of Finance János Veres. We have already heard one thing here, about the matter of the trade representation in Moscow, but we could talk about the counter-guarantee agreement of Malév, which could have meant EUR 32 million of extra money to the country, but this amount appeared not as a plus, but as a debt to a Russian bank, and it has to be paid by the Hungarian people. [[18.00]] In 2013, even Péter Oszkó, former Minister of Finance, called the counter-guarantee counter-guarantee illegal, and Jobbik filed a complaint, about which the Budapest Police Headquarters ordered an investigation on suspicion of misappropriation. Even then, János Veres was the finance minister. He defended Malév's signature of the counter-guarantee contract as a private company, and he had nothing to do with it. However, we know that at that time the state privatisation and asset management agency supervised by Peter Leonov, Martin Gauss and János Veres had to know about these matters. We could talk about Ferenc Gyurcsány and the real estate in Sukoro, the casino project. Of course, we can also say that we are not at peace in these matters, since none of them have yet been condemned. Given the shortness of time, I may only be able to remind you of the Portik-Laborc case, where politicians have been suspected and even told that information about these people is being collected to gain political benefit for the other party. We could talk about oil and the fact that the government has put a lot of effort into investigating these cases, and precisely to prevent them from repeating themselves, it has changed a lot of laws, it has made a lot of laws. I think it is clear from this that this last five-year period in Hungarian legislation has been a very exciting and very full of work. I accept that not everything has been able to find the best possible solutions, but that this government has done the most to whiten the economy and eliminate corruption, I am absolutely sure. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-245	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP, next. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-246	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must say, Mr President, if this does not offend the dignity of this House, that I do not like films against books because many charming details are lost in films. I don't know if my fellow Members know that Milne's Micimack doesn't start the way he is in the movie, but that the little boy named Robert Gideon is on the stairs, and Micimacko's head knocks on every step, and he doesn't wonder, because he thinks that this is the only reasonable way to travel on the stairs. That's how you are with corruption. I see that you don't see that it's there, that you're part of it, that you live in it every day, you don't see it, because you think it's the natural way to operate, because you've made it state order. No, I'm sorry. I don't want to be unfair. You didn't make it state order, it started earlier in Hungary, but you institutionalized it and took it to a professional level to see how it could be done. The reason I'm happy to hear from the pro-government speakers is because they're talking about an incredible scandalum is, uh, 410 million here, 55 million there, while your smallest game they're talking about is six billion dollars, a thousand billion dollars and that sort of thing. Well, what are they talking about? ! They're bringing in a couple of $10 million little things. It was a child's prank compared to what your ancestors have done today! Look at these cases, and it's interesting to talk about them. It is interesting to speak because - I quote Btk. - the crimes against the purity of public life in Btk. include the realisation of the facts of bribery and failure to report, which means that if you have any evidence in the case that is mentioned in connection with the entire opposition from Béla Kovács, I don't know, forged lease, anything, bring it here. I want you to bring him here and file a complaint if there's any evidence. But I don't know what you're talking about. You've had two-thirds of them for five years, you've got the Home Office, the D.A.'s office, everything's out of control, and you haven't done anything. What have they done since 2010? Five years later, they mention corruption cases that should have been accounted for a long time ago if they had any evidence. For you! The opposition has no means to do so. We come here, we make our voices heard, we give our opinions, but we have no real means to take action. Because you have the Chief Prosecutor and the entire Home Office in your hands. You are the ones who are responsible for the cases in which no reports have been made and what have been missed in the years prior to your governance. This is not the responsibility of others, but the responsibility of the current government. Interesting, because Congressman Gulyás Gergely, Vice-President, as a very talented lawyer, gave a professional defense speech in seven and a half minutes on why he did not think Péter Polt was responsible for how he was appointed. But please, you don't have to apologize to Peter Polt, you have to make a statement. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Yes!]] If you know so much corruption about the opposition as you're talking about, why isn't something happening? They're just talking and they don't have anything in their hands! And they're surprised that everyone's unhappy about it. This is what's happening here, the failure of democracy, I think. It has been said several times, and my party also represents this: the possibility of implementing the anti-corruption prosecutor's office. The example of Romania is that it works well. I will tell you frankly, I also argue with the opposition on this sometimes, and with my fellow Members, because I think that anti-corruption prosecution is the end-of-the-pipe procedure when we already accept that corruption exists. Democracy will be in Hungary when the President of the General Prosecutor, the President of Kehi, the President of the SAO and possibly the head of state are nominated by the opposition, and there will be a real counterweight to government, who can control and see what the government is doing. I also represent in my own party that once we get into a situation like this, this is what we need to represent, because this is the step in democracy when something can be done. Let the possibility of counterweights pass when our hands are clean. If you can look into your pockets, you don't have to keep secrets, and you don't have to appoint a party soldier as the Attorney General. Obviously, my main problem is that they deny the existence of corruption. They deny that this is a real, institutionalized form of state order, and I do not, for my part, claim that you are all involved. I didn't say everyone would get the money and the envelope in their pockets. I am talking about the fact that corruption has become an integral part of Hungarian culture, the Hungarian administration and government over the past 20 years. Obviously, you can talk about who's responsible for this, for previous governments or for you, but it's definitely part of our daily lives right now. That's the way it is in convenience stores, that's the way it is in local governments, and that's the way it is in government. I spoke to him on several occasions, I think, last fall or this spring, about my fellow Member Erik Bánki bringing in a proposal for a gambling tax, which would have helped to complement the organisation in which he is a member of the Bureau, the MLSZ, with an income. Before me, Mr Lajos Szűcs spoke, whose proposal was discussed a few weeks ago, so that the organisation he presided over would have all the natural water to fish in Hungary. Then here was my fellow Member, Balázs Győrffy, who brought in a motion for the organisation he presided over to collect an expert fee in order to be established... Please, no one among you has ever considered this to be a little conflicted. ? This is to accept the existence of this, live in it and not see it. I believe you're struggling to reduce the costs, fighting the GMO, there's only one thing you can't do: you can't fight corruption because it's the basis of your existence. And it's not because you're personally corrupt. No! Because the system they control is institutionally corrupt, and it's very, very difficult for them to do anything about it. When you bring up a few ten million stories from ten years ago, I obviously wonder where the events that have happened recently are. Like you, I have received expert material for the agenda. By the end of September, more than 66 billion HUF of revenue can be booked by offshore companies in Hungary for the sale of Hungarian government bonds. I wanted to hear the opinion of Gergely Gulyás to make one reasonable argument as to why the offshore should be left in Hungary. What makes it possible that, to date, companies that have unidentified background to being a prime partner of the government will still receive public procurements and state orders? Tell me a reason what's against this and say it's not institutionalized corruption itself. But obviously we can move on, because the case of this little green dossier on the NAV case has been raised several times. They say there's no corruption, and the D.A.'s office is doing well. It's been under investigation for two years, and there's no result. How is that possible? How is it that you can't close the case, there's not enough evidence that nothing happened, but at the same time you can pull the case off? Why is it that when you mention the tens of millions here... - my fellow Member, Mr Szűcs, has just said that the taxpayers have to meet the debt of the SZDSZ of 410 million. Please, not so long ago, you have paid back almost 2 billion of the Hungarian taxpayers' money without further ado because fraudsters have played out nearly a hundred local government's money in relation to playgrounds, who have paid 14 million and have received 1.5 million, 2 million instead. Your government, the Ministry of the Interior, has stood up against fraudsters, and to this day, no charges have been filed. What's that got to do with it? What makes it possible that I'm reading the paper this weekend, and I see that Csaba Gyuricza, president of the Rural Development Office, is going to divorce nearly 40 percent of his senior staff without a criminal report? Instead, he says that he discovered irregularities and replaced them. [[Zoltán Pride: Because they were his own!]] , because the MVH will continue the campaign of the. Empty pockets, clean hands. [[18.10]] Please, this is corruption when you say you have to replace people, but you don't have the same amount of criminal charges, and you don't have the argument for what happened. This hand washes in Hungary. It's that you have to cover it up, because if someone sees it, because you think no one sees it, they'll accidentally think you're wrong. I think that if what you claim is true, you should act first and foremost as flag bearers against your own, to clean up your ranks and set an example of the governance you took in 2010, when you promised the accountability policy. And obviously in the same way, when these offshore events arise, because they have practically strengthened the system we're talking about, obviously we can say from the LMP faction that we fought against it. The anti-offshore legislation was here - you didn't vote for it! You tell us what we did, let us tell you what you did. You have resisted our banning offshore from Hungary. And you can talk about it the same way. Just now, Mr Balla, who said that he was prepared for this debate on corruption issues, has unfortunately failed to learn, in connection with the debate day, not only to tell his own and leave, but there is another part of the debate day that he might listen to the other. He told me... [[On the mark of Mihály Balla:]] Then I apologize if he's here somewhere, he's just hiding. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] So overall, it is perfectly okay to say that the opposition did not vote for the legislation that would have allowed it to practically raise the land lease to its face. But please, what was the government, who was the Prime Minister, when those dirty twelve state economies were privatized on terribly bad terms? Orbán was Viktor. What was the government that passed a two-thirds law in 2013 to ensure that land leases before 15 December 2013 could not be used in any way, with full opposition from the opposition? He was your government. And they're asking for us? Well, you privatized some of these state farms, 80,000 out of 147 thousand acres tied to your hands. After that, you adopted the land traffic law, so to speak, which now makes it impossible for you to do your job, because the gang war is practically an unpleasant thing, because now you want to continue and tie your own hands, because you thought that if you were a friend, you would stay a friend, and you wouldn't. And all by pointing out the name of Lajos Simicska to the opposition, while a part of the opposition fought for five years, but the group of political groups may be different, I remember he tied himself to the Public Machine, so that the kind of rip-off when a quarter of Hungary is played out by a buddy of theirs would not be possible. And after they've done it, and they've had their best mate for five years, they're pointing out to the opposition that they're the reason there's a giant oligarch in this country. It's not like that. You put him in the position. He put you in a position with his media empire. And now you are defending this system, that there is no corruption here, and that there is no damage to the purity of public life. For my part, that's what I'm arguing with. I don't want to say that, and I apologize again, because I don't want to hurt either of you, I don't think you're all getting envelopes in your pockets here - it's not about that! It is a fact that it is fully accepted in Hungary that certain municipalities have some advantages over others - an undue advantage. That's how the application system works. This is very funny, I have seen in several places in the campaign that this Széchenyi 2020, which would indicate the end of the EU budget cycle, is actually not 2020 but 20-20, that 20 percent in the local party register, 20 percent in the central party register [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] And it's basically this campaign that's happening everywhere. And you don't want to face it, and you deny it. That's public opinion. If an entrepreneur goes to a local government and please, I'm the Prime Minister's son-in-law, I'd like to start a public procurement here, then maybe he doesn't mean any harm. He may not be asked to take advantage of him, but a government government does favour him, and this is not just the way in which public procurement takes place in Hungary, so the whole system of applications happens, which I would like to speak about later in a later speech, because what the European Union is allowed to do to the country is definitely a separate item on the agenda. And back to what they said: Secretary of State, Csaba Dömötör, from the propaganda industry, has just said a lot of quotes. Let me draw the Secretary of State's attention to the fact that the standard is good if everyone is measured the same way. Among the quotes, I liked to miss the quote by Minister János Lázár, who also said that I had the pleasure of listening personally to the fact that when MSZP was management, it was stolen when the Fidesz was stolen. Add that, because the fact is that anyone who's been on the wheel for the past 20 years has been trying to play their part, and that's a fact. You're saying the MSZPs shouldn't talk. I'm wondering how many years it's gonna take for you to admit your mistakes. How much do you have to lose in an election to admit you're wrong and take a different path, breaking up with what you were? I don't know, because I don't see the MSZPs breaking up with this trip, but I'm glad they're actively involved in the fight against corruption right now. I do not know if they would participate in government, but now, in this situation, I think that it is in the best interests of the country that the opposition, as a human being, tries to prevent what we see and experience in the country from being strengthened. I would also like to respond, Mr Tállai State Secretary quoted the words of Zoltán Dömény, who mentioned the MSZP in the context of the grain trade, that it is practically institutionalized that VAT fraud in relation to cereal trade has landed in the party register of the MSZP. Mr Secretary of State, if you are still here, I would like to remind you that the reverse VAT was registered in the grain trade in 2012, and if the statement is true, these funds must have landed in the Fidesz party register for two years. It's just that you didn't say anything, but you pretended that this VAT system was just under the previous government. Obviously it wasn't, because two years of play went to the other side. And obviously, when we talk about these issues, we need to talk about public opinion about who understands the purity of public life and what they mean about corruption. At the moment, Hungary is extremely present in everyday life, and this is what Hungarian society feels. I did not want to say in my speech that you are solely responsible for this, but if you deny and deny this existence and do not act against it, as in many cases Peter Polt does not act against it, in this case you will harm the entire Hungarian society. And when I am at the end of my time, I will address the European Union's proposals in a later speech. Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2015-11-23-247	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the Group, said in writing that he would resign from the remaining timeframe of the KDNP for the benefit of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance Group. [[Interviews from the benches of the MSZP, among others: No! After they don't have anyone here!]] We now come to you, Congressman László Varju, independent. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-248	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I think that we are experiencing one of the saddest days in the history of the Hungarian Parliament. Perhaps this is because more than 9 million people in Hungary see that they can follow up on the fact that everything that the political elite is doing here, reading on each other's heads, is infinitely saddening all the people who are fighting poverty and working to have a contract again and again tomorrow, to have a job. And you have to face the fact that it has to be done in circumstances that have now been half a decade, that, in essence, you can only get it through buddies who, by the way, are close to power, to government. Unfortunately, I have to go on there, we could have actually talked, but this has not happened that corruption is not a mistake in the system, it is the system itself. And so what you're doing, unfortunately, is reprehensible, reprehensible, and instead of fighting it, you're taking advantage of the possibility that you can't or don't want to object to the prosecution, you've put a man on top of it, who'd rather follow it as a defense attorney than, for example, in the case of a complaint in my hand. [[He's presenting the document.]] Rather, they decide to reject it, and many, I might say, are numerous. Therefore, unfortunately, I must conclude and see that the Orbán government is neither national, nor Christian, nor right-wing, but, in fact, a criminal organisation that is doing the work that it is most united in. And that's true, even if I see that you're very prepared, that you've produced your files on all opposition representatives, that you'll bring up 10-20-year-old cases here, and you'll yell in the ether to cover everything that's in front of you in the framework of the National Corruption Museum. In front of you, where from Lőrinc Mészáros, we can list one by one the people who have become rich under your wing. Political power is being used by you, the chosen, to make the few people who contribute and help you, by the way. [[18.20]] The stolen legislation is being used by you, and it seems to outsiders that everything is legal when a traff system is being stolen, while there are 32,000 pages of indictment against you that you couldn't have done that. But we know that as long as they rule the police, the prosecution, the State Audit Office, the Constitutional Court, as long as their people are to be paid five million forints a month in order to endure all that you are doing, the only thing that the Democratic Coalition has said before is that yes, we need a European prosecutor's office that can do this, speak up, and that is why we support it, and if we can, we represent it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Zoltan's ready to applaud.]]
u2015-11-23-249	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute comments available. First up, Congressman Gábor Bellozó, MSZP, in two minutes. Here.
u2015-11-23-250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond to Secretary of State Csepreghy, who said something quite interesting, that they had nothing to do with the 2007-2013 term and tried to push the existing public procurement scandals into the MSZP. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that this cycle actually started in 2008 and you have been ruling since spring 2010. But how, I would like to read something here for you. This is a transcript of a recording where Árpád Balázs mayor of Fidesz Fidesz Fidesz, then Mihály Witzmann talks with a Fidesz representative, and the Mayor says the following: the Public Machine will join your campaign. What's Mr. Witzmann saying it's good for? Árpád Balázs: the Prime Minister has signed the Somit, so it starts, the best offer has been made by the Public Machine, it is not yet announced, if the grant agreement is signed, then the consciousness formation will go in, but beyond that, the Public Machine itself will join us, as it has already been in every election. Mr. Witzmann asks, who did you discuss this with? The Public Machine, Miklós Németh, the leader of the Public Machine. I wouldn't quote it any further. The interesting thing is that this conversation will take place in October 2013, where the mayor claims that the Prime Minister has decided on Somi - this is a waste investment - which will be published. The announcement will be issued in December to issue this tender, and then in March of the following year the Public Machine will actually win this tender. Later, we will talk about what money is being used for. Now, what they're saying is that they want to use the money to make it happen. What does the D.A.'s office do? 'Cause there's been a report. Péter Polt informed me that the Central Investigator's Attorney General's Office did not find anything to investigate the content of the recording, but examined the circumstances of the recording and the circumstances of the disclosure. This, fellow Members, is the Mafia state itself; that is how it works.
u2015-11-23-251	Mr. President Novak is next, Jobbik, in two minutes. Here.
u2015-11-23-252	Dear Parliament, I regret that, on the initiative and pressure of Jobbik, an anti-corruption debate day may have been created, as legislators, instead of legislating, improving proposals, they are throwing mud, although, for example, Gábor Vona has proposed a number of specific better programming points, which would be the task of the legislators. Compared to that, we're seeing mud throwing. They think that, for example, if they say that Béla Kovács is the biggest corruption case in the European Union, he will become one, without any evidence. What we don't know is how much this communication tip has been billed to the government by one of the great tellers in the Moonyard, but we can see that we haven't seen any evidence to date. I'm not one to protect your party mates from guts just because there's some kind of attack coming from the outside. I want proof. I don't think it would be credible to protect you like I don't believe in attacking you like that, without any evidence. What kind of evidence do I want? One that we can see on WikiLeaks, for example, is indeed not a promise that there will be once they dare to unlock encryptions, but it is indeed evidence. Evidence that the politicians of MSZP and Fidesz took turns to report to the U.S. Embassy to serve foreign interests. Evidence of what we see on WikiLeaks. [[An intervention in Jobbik's ranks: It's outrageous!]] This is to serve alien interests, to drag their own party mates along there, to supply information, and to carry out instructions, what the alien great power, America, expects. And we can still think of the embassy they went to, but the WikiLeaks we know for sure, the American embassy, the opposition. Well, that's the kind of evidence we'd like to see in the Béla Kovács case, since you've said it so many times, but we'd be even more pleased if this anti-corruption debate day could finally be about the legislative, improving proposals that would help us to reduce state corruption, political crime, regardless of party affiliation. That's what Jobbik declared war on. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-253	Dear Parliament, We will return to the speeches of the speakers who have been announced. Congressman Erik Bánki, Fidesz, next. Here.
u2015-11-23-254	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the Government, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, over the past few years, there have been allegations, accusations, periodic slanders from the opposition's side, which I would not believe would help in any way or in any way in the process of legislating the next period. Therefore, let me, unlike so far, list a number of measures from the last six years that have prepared economic policy measures that have made the economy much more transparent, the masses of jobs that have been declared, new jobs that have been created, and a lot more taxes paid into the budget. If we look at the area of income tax alone, the changes that have taken place in the past period, the economic whiteening measures adopted by the Hungarian Parliament on the proposal of the government or on an individual amendment, then allow me to draw up four important laws. The first is the 1995 CXVII on personal income tax. Amendment to Law and the other amendment to Act LXXXI of 1996 on corporation tax. The third amendment to Law No CXLVII of 2012 on the specific tax of small companies and the small company tax. Law and amendment of Act C of 1990 on Local Taxes. In the area of income taxes, a number of measures have been taken in recent years, as I have just mentioned, and the primary aspect of which was the whitening of the economy. What we did with personal income tax? In the area of personal income tax, we managed to create the most favourable tax rate for Europe - from the next year to 15 percent for Hungarian citizens - which showed that although the government took a great risk when it introduced a single-key tax, which was set at 16 per cent, the budget, if we had seen it purely numerically, meant a loss of approximately HUF 1000 billion, but this did not mean a loss, ladies and gentlemen, but we left HUF 1000 billion for the Hungarian families. And look at the wonder, by creating the most competitive personal income tax band in Europe, not only would this clear tax reduction have been a long-term or even medium-term loss to the budget, but we could already say, in three years' time, that it has recovered from the budget and that, over three years, personal income tax revenue has reached the same level as it was when the new, positive system was introduced. It has therefore become clear that much more people have declared much more income in Hungary, and since then we can say that higher revenue will be realised for the budget than for the period preceding the new measure. Let's see what happened in the corporate tax area. As of 2012, the rules for the use of demarcated losses have been tightened. On the one hand, the retained loss of previous tax years can be counted at most up to 50 per cent of the tax year base calculated as a reduction in pre-tax profit, and on the other hand, the rules for the use of the pre-tax profit for the acquisition of the company have been tightened. In addition, as of 2015, the period of use of the demarcated loss was reduced to five years in respect of the loss incurred after 31 December 2014. The transfer pricing adjustment rules have also been tightened since 2015. This all helps, ladies and gentlemen, not to abuse, not to trick against losses previously incurred, so that, as a result, the company will not have to pay corporate income tax for many years. From 2013 companies will be able to choose the specific tax on newly introduced small and medium-sized enterprises and the small enterprise tax, which will also help to whiten the economy in this sphere by creating a favourable tax environment, i.e. in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. That, no, because of this, budget revenues have increased. [[18.30]] And let's look at what happened in the area of local taxes, what happened in the change of local taxation: to impose the underlying liability of the owner, if the right of property is entitled to the tax and the latter has no assets to pay the tax. It has become a trend that the right of property value has been created for the homeless in order not to have to pay, for example, a construction tax or land tax in the territory of a given municipality. We have also introduced a number of changes in accounting legislation that have fulfilled their expectations. In the framework of EU legal harmonisation, it has been introduced for certain medium and large enterprises and for public-interest entities the obligation to report to governments the amounts paid to governments in order to ensure that benefits granted to the State by enterprises operating in the extractive industry and engaged in the logging of natural forests are transparent and traceable. Another important amendment was to ensure transparency in the ownership structure. The transparency of companies is enhanced by the provision in force from 15 March 2014, which requires a detailed presentation of the ownership structure in the additional annexes, since the supplementary annex to the accounts of limited liability companies and public limited liability companies should include the majority influence, the name, seat and proportion of votes of a member or shareholder with a qualified majority. We have also tried to tighten up the supervision of auditors, just in order to make the reports that are being made about the operation of the companies or the municipalities realistic. The government has aimed at transparent, legal enforcement of companies by tightening public oversight controls on auditors and introducing strict sanctions - fines, withdrawal of certification, prohibition from carrying out audit activities - to be applied by the public oversight authority. Similarly, anti-corruption measures include extending the range of public-interest farmers to listed companies, banks, insurance companies or investment firms and introducing a mandatory five-year rotation of audit firms carrying out audits. We could also talk about the results of the introduction of online cash registers, the hundreds of billions that, as a result, have entered the register of public finances, and I am pleased to hear from Minister Mihály Varga that this process has not stopped, but, for example, will be extended to taxi drivers as a next step in the following year. I think that all Hungarian businesses that are involved in this circle will be included in the white part of the economy, where they will not have the chance to remove or hide tax or contribution obligations from the state. Ladies and Gentlemen, I think that the Hungarian government's economic policy, which has been applied over the past period, the proposals that it has put forward for the legislation, have been made in order to increase public finances by whitening the economy and to clean up the competition that exists between economic operators. For anyone who knows this area knows precisely that those who work on the market using various tricks, without paying taxes and contributions, gain a market advantage over honest businesses that is intolerable, not only unfair, but also capable of distorting the market. So every step that serves to whiteen the economy is also conducive to fair competition in the market, strengthening the market positions of businesses, individual entrepreneurs or social enterprises who manage fairly, by paying all taxes and contributions, because they think that this is correct, because those who earn income must also comply with their tax or contribution obligations. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that the recent government policy of the Fidesz and KDNP fractions also show that we are committed to whitening the economy and we want to continue this process. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-255	Thank you very much. Mr Sándor Burány next, MSZP. Here.
u2015-11-23-256	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, When opposition representatives talk about the most effective way to combat corruption is to eliminate the institutionalisation that has been experienced since 2010, we are not talking in the air. After all, we live in a country where corruption doesn't mean that people and corrupt people are cheating the law, but that we live in a country where laws are already being made that bring serious billions of public money to the kitchen for a chosen circle. There are clear examples of this legislative practice: if you want to give Andy Vajna a casino, you will make rules to receive it in a concession; if you want to transfer the entire tobacco trade, retail traffic, and trades to your own preferential circle, then you will no longer take advantage of the loopholes, but you will create laws that lobbyists otherwise write, and as a result these small shops will get new owners, more precisely concessions. And if, in hindsight, they see that the profit has not reached its calculated level, then they are amending the law again so that products that will increase the profits and profits of these businesses can be placed on the market; everything, as the dear customer, the background people ask the government to do. Public procurements are initially stated that the news in Hungary today is not that another government-close company has won some kind of public procurement, but that the news is that if, exceptionally, a company close to Fidesz has won a public procurement. There are outcasts like Lajos Simicska, there are new favorites, and there are eternal winners. For example, the Századvég seems to be an eternal winner, and it receives the heavy billions in a row with the acquisition of various public procurements, and it does not even bother you that they will be awarded public procurement on a subject on which only qualified persons would have access to classified information, and these employees do not have such a licence, even with a risk to national security where appropriate. How much they view all public money as their own, the Hungarian National Bank, too, almost said it was a good example, but it was a bad example. The Hungarian National Bank now has a president and management that believes that it can spend public money on its own passes. They gave various foundations 250 billion forints of public money, so that, by the way, through the Board of Boards of Foundations, the central bank managers would receive considerable funds, but a little later. The same Magyar Nemzeti Bank has become one of the largest players in the real estate market, as if this were its main profile: it spent some HUF 26 billion on real estate purchases. And if the Matolcsy family at home at family dinner sees the need to spend a little in the village of the woman, where she is mayor, then they buy a property there for a billion, so that this village where the mayor personally walks worse than other beneficiaries. If the President of the Hungarian National Bank is travelling in artworks, then he spent HUF 9 billion in public money on art purchases. And now here's about the foundations and the curatoriums. So not only did they create these foundations for their own pass - this pass is an education of György Matolcsy's economic views to call this pass by name - but these foundations were partially filled with themselves. They are not ashamed of these foundations by stealing very serious public funds: the President of the Central Bank himself hired some HUF 14 million for the Board membership of foundations, and one of the vice-presidents, named Ferenc Gerhardt, made more than 12 million in this way, taking on a curatorial role in public funds. We would now think that they would, of course, admit this, but even made the mistake of causing a scandal that these amounts were not included in their declaration of assets. [[18.40]] I would like to tell you that according to Hungarian law in force - and this was acknowledged here by Péter Polt at the plenary session of Parliament - if a person has such sums in his declaration of assets, although there is a legal obligation to indicate them, then this is a crime. This crime is called a crime of budgetary fraud, for which, where appropriate, it is punishable by imprisonment. And when, by the way, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office receives a complaint about a serious suspicion of fiscal fraud, the prosecutor's office answers that this is not a budgetary fraud, because it is not a crime, because those individuals - I repeat: we are talking about the President and Vice-President of the National Bank of Hungary - were unable to understand that they were earning about HUF 10 million on the side, and if their consciousness could not grasp it, then willfulness cannot be shown, ergo is not a crime, not a budgetary fraud. Now, when the perception of fiscal fraud within a prosecutor's office is so obviously rebellious, we have the right to talk about the fact that cases in Hungary are a party and that, unfortunately, corruption is institutionalized within the public sphere. Ladies and Gentlemen, Here in Parliament, we should think and work on creating laws that exclude the moonyard from being the winner of public tenders, excluding the possibility of the moonyard getting rich. We should create laws that provide equal opportunities for everyone, but you produce legislation in a row that only puts friends and relatives in a position of benefit. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-23-257	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State, Mr Bitay Márton Örs asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-258	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Only Sándor Burány's words compelled me, and it occurred to me that, speaking of the National Bank of Hungary, we may all remember the András Simor, who called his offshore company tax optimization, through which who knows what money ran away. When asked if it was normal for the president of the Hungarian National Bank to have an offshore company, he gave this answer. That was in your time. And I would also like to remind you from the Simor era that the government, the then management of the Hungarian National Bank, has been fighting for years against being placed under this pay ceiling. [[Sándor Burány: Today with success! You've succeeded!]] So I take it a little backwards that you made comments about the President of the Hungarian National Bank. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-259	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: Is it my turn?]] I'm telling you again, I just don't think you could hear it because of the applause. You're next, yeah.
u2015-11-23-260	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Secretary of State's comment was extremely good and appropriate, which is what I was thinking. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Allow me to comment on the area of health for a little while and to talk about a small slice of corruption that has been committed there. These corruption cases are not suspicions, not just suggestions - I say this to my fellow Member, Róbert Sallai, Benedek, LMP - but most of these cases have been investigated by the prosecution, reported and brought to justice. So to your point or to answer: I would like to talk here about cases in specific criminal proceedings or completed them, but because of the timeframe, I can only bring up very few such cases. My fellow Member, Mr Lajos Szűcs, spoke about packaging materials, so he began his speech. Allow me to begin the list with a technical device. It was 2008, and the public was extremely upset by the need to install visitation fee vending machines in hospitals. But why did you have to install vending machines in hospitals? Well, that's because the Balliberal Government figured out that poor patients should pay a visitation fee. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] This was also outrageous in itself, but it was also outrageous that the equipment and procurement of these visit fee machines were suspected of corruption. Allow me to quote from those times:. The only winner of the introduction of the visit fee is János Kóka's former company, Meditcom Kft. and related business circles. Luckily, the citizens voted against the introduction of the visit fee in a referendum, and were therefore saved from paying the visit fee. (Zoltán Haughty interrupts.) And the socialist-liberal government's corruption-suspecting business could eventually be thrown into a dump. Then allow me to continue speaking with the following news, where there has been criminal proceedings. The court sentenced two former MSZP MPs to a first-degree suspended prison sentence and a million HUF fine. One Member of Parliament was named Zsuzsanna Kárpáti, who was the former Director General of the Institute for Health Stock Management, one year ten months, Gyula Vári, and one year six months in prison, and one year suspended for three years. So there was a report, an investigation, criminal proceedings, a verdict. [[Zoltán Grimlock: First degree! Dr. László Kács: Do we know anything about the legal force?]] According to the indictment, Zsuzsanna Kárpáti, as Director-General of the Institute for Stock Management, concluded several contracts for the preparation of studies between October 2008 and January 2010, Gyula Vári prepared four studies on the basis of the contracts, but according to the prosecutor's office they were invaluable to the Institute for Stock Management, but the Institute paid HUF 8 million for them to the former MSZP Member of Parliament. It may seem like a bagatell to you, but I just want to talk to you about how common it was for the socialists to make such a few million forints transactions between themselves, most of which obviously could not be explored. [[Zoltán Grimlock: The Fidesz has a billionaires! Sallai R. Benedict intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] But I would like to say that during the socialist-liberal governments, corruption was so institutional, and it was so everyday that they paid the public money with created, fake contracts with millions of items. [[Zoltán Grimlock: How much money was there in Mezőfalva?]] The next news, which could be read in the media, was that the former State Health Center, the former Director General of the Honvéd Hospital in Budapest, was prosecuted by István Szilvásy, the Metropolitan Attorney General's Office - so it is again possible to talk about criminal proceedings. Hende Csaba Minister for Defence Szilvásy István - yes, György Szilvásy's former brother, the former Director General of the HM State Health Centre - filed a criminal complaint on suspicion of fraudulent treatment and other economic crimes. The Metropolitan Public Prosecutor's Office has repeatedly prosecuted the former Director-General of the State Health Centre and his two associates for the crime of significant misappropriation of property and other crimes, partly because of a fictitious business contract or the conclusion of a false employment contract. Let me also note here that György Szilvásy's brother at the same time, not only because of the perceived or real abuses of the institution he controlled, but also in connection with one of the most serious secret service scandals in Hungary after the regime change - you may remember this case - because in 2007 it turned out that the billionaire - I am not talking about ten million forints anymore, but the billionaire - connected to the fraud and smuggling case - Foundation for each other supported the BM Hospital supported by István Szilvásy. But among the co-workers of the charitable organization who had been involved with organized crime and former NBH leaders who had been accused of bribery since then was another brother of Gyurcsány's former chief confidant, Péter Szilvásy. It is known that, according to the charge - that is to say, there was criminal proceedings here - the Foundation for each other entered into the country from Asia in 2005 and 2006, without paying taxes, several tons of food on the grounds that the donation... - so that they brought it in to the needy, to the poor, they referred to it, and then sold it at a good price, did not pay taxes afterwards, so they did not pay almost one and a half billion taxes into the state register. [[18.50]] A next such case is also linked to the socialists. According to the examination of the Heves county municipality, it is likely to have caused 700 million HUF damage - I hope that it has already hit the border drawn by my fellow Member - the former MSZP President of the County Assembly, Tamás Sós, did not terminate the property management contract of the Eger Hospital in 2009. I don't know how much you guys remember this case, but it's made a lot of noise. It was clear here that the company that had signed a contract with the Eger hospital was collaborating with the then socialist president of the Heves County General Assembly. Then there was a very interesting case, the vaccine company Omninvest. Here the news was that during the previous government, the Hungarian vaccine manufacturer Omninvest Kft. could change the draft agreement with the state, so he could finally give the vaccine to the pharmacy more expensively. This was revealed in a letter written by Peter Oskó. The Minister of Finance of the Bajnai Government did not understand how the government could be so vulnerable to this company. This was done by leaking a letter in which Péter Oszkó, Minister of Finance, wrote in August 2009 to Ábel Garamhegyi, then Secretary of State of the Ministry of National Development and Economics:.. If you had allowed a personal but honest opinion, such a company would have disfellowshipped itself from all civilized business in normal business conditions with such a quality negotiation process. It is still difficult for me to digest the fact that as governments, we are so vulnerable that we are forced to swallow the clouding of the company's inaccessible property relations and its untraceable, confusing reasoning in price negotiation. - December 13, 2010 - December 13, 2010 - December 20, 2010 Well, good morning. That's what I meant by waking up. If the finance minister of an MSZP government in a letter in black and white describes how much this government is at the mercy of a company, and he doesn't understand all this, how can it be, what if it's not the deepest corruption? And here we are not talking about money, billions, but about a system that was spoken and written in a letter by the Minister of Finance of the MSZP government itself. So you volunteered, obviously, to protect yourself, to find out about a case like this, and it can't go on like this. But there was another very nasty case under the governance of the MSZP, and this is the HospInvest case. You guys had the idea of beating hospitals to the ground, putting the hospitals on their own with different screws. This company has damaged the Hungarian budget, the Hungarian people and the sick people. In the case of HospInvest, the State Secretary for Health, led by Miklós Szócska, filed a complaint here too, and the proceedings started. The Hospitalvestes amok run was considered by the State Secretary to be an adventurous privatisation, who said that the damage could be HUF 4.5 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, The damage, corruption-suspecting cases and corruption-proved cases that were committed by the MSZP during the socialist government, mainly during your parliamentary representativeship, could be classified in length, but I think that is enough for a taste of the damage that has been caused in the field of health. And if you look only at the area of health, then you see how natural it was for you to take everything that could be moved, stolen, and not pay attention to appearances. In these years, the socialists were preparing for the biggest corruption of the century when they thought that the whole health care system - and I am thinking more about hospitals - could be stolen and pocketed. First they bled out hospitals, took every penny from them, left inpatient care and hospitals in ruins by 2010. Why would they do that? So that you can throw it cheaply and at a price. What if it's not a hotbed of corruption? They've seriously weakened the health care system, the hospital system. It is my duty now to speak in the field of health, but my other fellow Members are actually proving that the state has pursued the same tactics in the rest of the economy: they have weakened the different areas, which means they have weakened the country in the end. It is wrong to think that if these people were to govern in the current situation of foreign and domestic politics, then what would happen to Hungary now. Who would defend the borders, who would defend Hungary, who would protect the Hungarians? If you were to govern now with the mentality that weakened the country, the Hungarian nation, there would be no stopping, no one would defend Hungary today. By the end of the corruption debate day, let me just say it's amazing how you are aware of the years of corruption you've committed, stand up and talk like nothing has happened. I hope this never happens again. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-11-23-261	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Loránt Violin's next, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-11-23-262	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I'm very pleased to have you with our colleague Lajos Szűcs. I'll tell you why. Because Gabriella Selmeczi began to comment on the purchase of certain vending machines, our fellow Member Lajos Szűcs remembered the packaging materials, and I remembered the travels, and certain travels to the Azores, where the representatives of Pest County went, despite the fact that at that time the total debts of Pest County had already been over HUF 16 billion, and at that time the feeding of children was very, very limited due to this huge debt. And much public money was spent on this great-great trip along with family members. When the question arose about how they got there and why, they said that they would go to the end of the world to study the Roma strategy. I think it would have been worth staying home and asking Florian Farkas, perhaps he could have provided substantial information on how to steal public money from the Roma strategy. In fact, I would like to say to my fellow Member, Szűcs, that it is very dangerous to mention Tamás Portik and his political relations in this House. I'll tell you why. Because in Hódmezővásárhely, when the city was run by Minister Lazarus, a contract was concluded where a 100 million property was sold for 40 million HUF to a company belonging to Tamás Portik's interests that operated adult-containing websites, but they did not even have to pay this 40 million, but some banners appeared on these adult-containing websites. I can't even begin to think about what these particular banners had in them. In any case, if we are talking about political corruption, which is intertwined with economic corruption, then Tamás Portik's name must be treated very carefully in this House. I am glad that Secretary of State Dömötör has stayed with us, because, frankly, with regard to the whole day, I have been thinking that if we are talking about corruption, where is Antal Rogán? Where is Antal Rogán, who is not only an object but also a subject of corruption in Hungary? - as we know. I'll tell you why. You will remember when OLAF has already conducted an investigation into the main street of the city, and it has turned out that a large number of public funds have disappeared and have been misused in connection with personalised public procurement. And it was you, Secretary of State Dömötör, who spoke of forbidden party financing. Well, it's got to come up: what is this if it's not illegal party funding? Instead of accusing us of this, you should ask your own employer, Minister Rogán, how these investments have been made, together with personalised public procurement. [[19.00]] But to return to the substance of my speech, in the context of the 2007-2013 European Union cycle, I would like to put forward a few problems, some doubts, in relation to the spending of tender funds. We have just heard from another Secretary of State that, for example, everything is fine with the KEOP investments, everything went well and well, 473 billion forints were spent on 520 settlements, and, yes, Lőrinc Mészáros was preferred almost every time among the contractors. On this matter, I have just said an oral question today, and I have said that there have been gross overbills, there has been sloppy execution, we have to face a multitude of unclear financial issues, and, yes, there have been personalised public procurements here too. And, uh, actually, we're dealing with a well-educated script. They hid basic information even from the population, and those who dared to ask after it, perhaps to inquire because they were searching for information were threatened. It was not in one case that he or she had been dismissed from work or close relatives simply because they dared to ask sensitive questions about certain investments. That means everyone knows they're stealing. Everyone knows how to steal. Everyone knows kissers benefit. Everyone can see that politicians' houses are being built at the same time in connection with certain investments, surprisingly from the same material, the same contractors, the same workers. It's just, there's nothing going on with being accounted for, is there? 'Cause even though we're going to the DA's office, there's no complaint, no complaint, no complaint, no investigation, like I've done here for the second time before the House, nothing happens, half-finished versus wipes out all of our initiatives. And let's talk a little bit about the role of offshore companies. Here it came up in a reply that one of the politicians linked to the MSZP referred to offshore companies as tax optimization. And what do you use it for? Tell me! We know that in many of these investments offshore companies were entrusted, contractors or investors, and, well, in this case, if a company is entrusted with public spending, it must be stated whether it is a transparent company. And do you know what's happening, Mr. Secretary? He's making a statement, the offshore company is making a statement, oh, I'm transparent. I got the paper, I got the keys, I got the statement. Unfortunately, even the D.A. can't examine its content in Hungary today. In such a case, yes, we filed a criminal complaint, and the surprising answer came that the prosecution had spread its hand and said that they could not examine the content of the statement. Do you understand? ! From every public record the simplest, hardworking little man can remove this simple information, and Belize or, as we know, Liechtenstein is a tax haven, so a prosecutor may probably know this information, has it, but rather closes his eyes, looks the other way and does not examine this particular question. But going back to the role of the prosecution, yes, no matter how many charges we filed, I've only filed a reasoned complaint in the last term or 60-70 cases, you've swept everything off the table, and your D.A.'s office has swept everything off the table. Let me quote a specific example from this cycle for you. A company that managed the retail self in relation to an investment had the specific task of managing this retail self, investing unauthorizedly in day trade transactions at Quaestor, i.e. on the most high-risk transactions possible, HUF 1 billion. Well, he failed, and we filed a criminal report. The D.A.'s office soon closed the investigation, because the DA's office didn't come up with the small question as to what kind of agent's commission might have been given to those involved in this matter. But to go on to the 2014-2020 period: what you don't talk about, imagine! ? You know what they say? They say that in the previous cycle, it is now necessary to put it into the system, and this is how it will be done. By setting up tender and project management organisations by the county authorities. Now the list of contractors, who will make what investment, what kind of tender will be carried out. In fact, these contractors are already bringing with them the two additional offers needed to make public procurement easier and smoother; therefore, two offers that will surely lose public procurement and thus play this part in the piano. So allow me one more thought at the end: in the context of economic corruption that is closely linked to political corruption, Andy Vajna and the ten billion he received as gifts, such as tax credits and tax incentives, are much mentioned. But we talk less about the role of George Soros. Allow me to conclude by mentioning his role as well. He was the one who bred the current government elite in his political infantry. Orbán has obviously learned to listen not to what I say, but to what I do. And what do they do? They're stealing. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-263	The next speaker was Mr Mihály Balla, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-264	Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In today's debate, there are many directions, many ideas, and I give and receive, at times in a louder style, as the House's authority might require, including any comments. I think that when we talk about corruption, those who have initiated today's debate have some charm in it, that precisely those who have initiated this debate, who are not completely clear about it. In addition, after a period of government, after 2002-2010, if you look at it, after a period full of corruption cases. In addition, in recent times, two years ago, the wider public did not really know that the MSZP had a deputy president, perhaps not even who he was. The only reason people heard about who was the vice president of the MSZP was when, we were talking about my colleague Zoltán Gőgös's predecessor, it turned out that he held hundreds of millions of forints in secret foreign bank accounts. [[Zoltán Grimlock: I don't have one.]] I'm talking about your predecessor, Congressman. The MSZP hasn't come up with any, a little believable explanation of where it came from... [[Zoltán Grimlock: I don't even have a house.]] This money from your predecessor, Congressman, your predecessor and the deputy leader of the party at that time, and why he kept it a secret. The question may also be answered as to the relationship between the hundreds of millions of vice presidents and the infamous MSZP logo safe mentioned by János Zuschlag with institutionalized corruption in MSZP. They've always taken just as much money out of this secret account and placed me in cash in the party safe as needed to finance the current messy cases; because that's what János Zuschlag talked about in various press organizations. Or the other way around, the millions of people in the vault have come together over the years as a secret hundred million-dollar account. The question about the account held in Vienna is that perhaps it was a party interest that the second member of the MSZP used a false passport from Guinea bissau to wheel millions out of the country. [[Zoltán Grimlock: There is no such thing.]] And if so, how many others knew about this? We hope that these questions will be discussed at the court hearing that will soon begin, perhaps Gábor Simon will tell us what he knows or thinks. That's one part of what you raise. When we look at foreign policy and European policy issues, because we meet regularly in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on matters that come before us both in Hungary, from a foreign policy point of view or, where appropriate, in European policy matters, there will also be cases, not only from the left, but also from the right. [[19.10]] On the part of Jobbik, we have also found a case that has been mentioned several times here, and my right-wing fellow Members have responded with a smile, but the fact is that in this case, exactly the same thing has happened, that the person who has been unknown or barely known to date, Béla Kovács, who is now referred to as KáGébéla, has been included in the Jobbik list in the European Parliament, and who has been suspected of spying on Russia, where appropriate, or not yet to know exactly what is going to happen in this case. In such cases, when this case comes up, it is essential that it also raises the suspicion that, where appropriate, the funds it obtains are the financing of a party by a foreign party or a foreign government, or the question of what interests it receives funding at all. Or was it really in the interests of the electorate that Member, partly with the approval of the Hungarian parliamentary party in the European Parliament, or did he do what he did in the service of what interests at all? And even if President Vona pretended to conspire with the Russian secret service only to his own beard, the situation was very strange, because he himself said what he meant when he said that he had heard many things, among them ambiguous things that I expected to be answered. You have a perfectly right to think about this, Mr President, but I ask you, what did you think at the time that your party's representative on the European Parliament list was traveling to Moscow every month? Or is it not strange that he came home from Russia at the time Jobbik was formed, where he moved before the regime changed because he was not feeling well in Hungary, as he said? Although Jobbik often mentioned the abolition of immunity, Béla Kovács managed to avoid legal proceedings for a year and a half. On one occasion, he himself asked for a postponement, and later by letter from his fellow Member, Mrs Krisztina Morvai, asked the European Parliament's legal committee not to suspend his fellow Member's immunity. So these are facts. I think that this is something of a charm when we are debating these matters here in this Parliament. On the other hand, let us, Mr President, and not as an attack, just when we talk about various topics at committee meetings and talk about different topics, Jobbik's President represents the foreign policy position represented by his party as a member of the committee. I've just had a charm out there in the pulpit to refer to corruption cases as to what might have been behind the US bans, while I know what the party's relationship with this relationship might be. And while we are talking about European issues, it is also important to give a kind of approach to one more case, and here I would like to draw the attention of our socialist representatives to the fact that there was a news article that was still real at the time of Socialist government, and after that it appeared on various media forums that Hungary had then sold its 17 thousand square meter commercial house or catering or hotel representation in the most expensive city, Moscow, in view of the world's real estate market. It was a very interesting thing that around 250 thousand forints/square meters were sold at that time, so it was possible to buy real estate for just as much in the difficult periods in Budapest, and anyone who knew or heard about the real estate prices in Moscow was clear that there were very strange events behind this transaction as well. The problem is, in part, that there will soon be a judgment hearing in the next few days, but it is interesting to note that while former State Secretary Márta Fekszi is suspected of a crime committed by an official, while we do not forget that in 2008, the government meeting in Dobogókő was dealing with the smoothing of this matter or perhaps making it more formal, and then perhaps his superiors, Kinga Göncz, the then Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the then Minister of Finance, János Veres, knew what this sale could mean. In addition, a separate chapter could be devoted to the allocation of European Union funds by 2010 over the past period, of which I would highlight only two examples. On the one hand, because one of the seemingly insufferable corruptions was assumed, this lookout tower in Bodrogkeresztúr was 40 centimeters long, or what I saw in my own district was a 120 million-dollar dog wellness center in a settlement where villagers did not really understand why dog wellness should be built. Since then, those involved have not been able to explain what this was really about. The area that was invented in the past is still empty, perhaps not even the sign in the middle of the wilderness, that something existed there. But these are the cases that also draw our attention to the fact that, in fact, in the past period up to 2010, there are cases that, because of the fact that, if we consider this debate today, precisely who is present among the initiating signatories, it is, to say the least, a strange thing, while there could be a long list, even within an eight-hour time frame, of the issues that marked the then MSZP-liberal governance. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-265	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, two Secretarys of State came forward again. Péter Benő Banai is the first to receive the floor. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-266	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to quote very briefly two things that have been said earlier. Congressman Balla mentioned the processes before 2010 and then what the government had done, so allow me first of all to point out to Mrs Loránt Hegedűs that not only words but also actions have taken place in offshore affairs. On the proposal of this government, the majority of the Parliament elected after 2010 decided that organisations with offshore backgrounds should not receive any public funds. This is a concrete act. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: Despite this!]] and, therefore, organisations with uncontrolled backgrounds cannot receive or receive support. Another concrete thing, which I think is also a significant change compared to the period before 2010, is the use of the previously mentioned central bank resources. Mr Sándor Burány referred to this. First of all, I would like to say that we are talking to God about the fact that the central bank does not have a loss that the central budget has to reimburse, but rather a significant profit, by running programmes, Congressman. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] as the credit programme, which, by the way, reduces the outcome of the central bank. [[Zoltán Haughty: But not of this!]] So, first of all, we are saying that we can now talk about the outcome of the central bank, and that, in the context of social responsibility, it is being used by the central bank to expand national assets and to support programmes such as Hungarians across borders. So I think that yes, results and actions speak, and there are things that we should all be proud of. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-267	Thank you very much. Secretary Bence Rétvári, please.
u2015-11-23-268	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would just like to mention a few things that I have missed from the opposition's previous speeches and embarrassing explanations. For example, LMP forgot to discuss the case of Balázs Faith, who started a Roma competition [[Mr. President, KDNP has no time!]] And it turns out he doesn't have any rights to do that. We would like LMP to give you some kind of explanation for this. Or even that in the case of Tamás Jakab and Attila Ladányi, one of them was the party banker and the other was responsible for the construction of the corporate holdyard around the party. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: KDNP has no time!]] And in awkward circumstances, they had to resign and leave the LMP very quickly, as the colleague of Bernadett Szél, sitting next to you or in front of you, said that the government had launched a styitender, and that in this so-called LMP bid called a styitender, the companies connected to Attila Ladányi and the former party bank of LMP, Tamás Jakab won 220-220 million. [[19.20]] I'm also wondering why you're so protective of Béla Jobbik Kovács. What is his ability to do that makes it so important to you that it has been launched not only in one, but also in two elections, it has been sent twice to Brussels, the European Parliament, so it gets out of the Hungarian quota - he draws one from our total national representative number, he seems not to represent the interests of the Hungarian nation - from the party that supposedly put the representation of national interest on his flag. Tell me what a wonderful quality Béla Kovács has that makes you keep him in the party. Because if they can't say that, then we have to think that it's for nothing else, because he can bring money from uncertain sources to Jobbik. We don't see him in political communication, we don't see his strategic ideas, he doesn't appear in public anywhere, he's also hidden from us in Parliament. What's the special quality of keeping it? My fellow Member László Varju, who was independent, also spoke as a politician of the Democratic Coalition, forgot to mention only three things that I think might have been worth mentioning. One is the one-and-a-half-billion-dollar mandate that was given from Brussels to the consortium led by Altus. Is it possible that, through such a consortium, the party financing funds prohibited to the Democratic Coalition would be used by Ferenc Gyurcsány as the owner to take out his share of this 1.5 billion as a profit, as he has taken money out of the Altus in recent years, and has allocated 16 million of them to the Democratic Coalition? Is this not forbidden by the European Commission if the funds are made available to the Democratic Coalition? Is it acceptable for an ex-Prime Minister to provide an objective picture when a few former NFÜs, some EU grant experts, and former government officials were involved in his company? Is it possible to create an objective picture, or was it a completely different goal for public policy, which was not visible to voters? And it also belongs to the leader of the Democratic Coalition, Ferenc Gyurcsány, where Miklós Tátrai, former Chief Executive and Director of Sales, was convicted [[Zoltán Grimlock: Unfinished business.]] One for four years, the other for three and a half years in prison. Ferenc Gyurcsány considered it important that he be present in the negotiations personally. If I remember correctly, perhaps even trying to protect him as a witness, he was protecting these two gentlemen in public, who have now committed a specific crime in the Sukoro case by the court. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's not final!]] This investment was raised by the government led by Ferenc Gyurcsány as a priority investment. Why doesn't the Democratic Coalition report this here in Parliament? Or the Csillebérc case: it was before Parliament today that after 25 years the former children's camp in Csillebérc can be used as a public property for the entire community. But let's not forget that one of the corners of this is a café called Bau-wraith. owned by Bau-bérc Ltd., owned by two owners, one owned by a relative of the pioneering association, the other owned by a Chinese gentleman or, more specifically, by one person. And your delivery agent is very close to Congressman Varju, as far as I know. It would also be good to report here, within the walls of Parliament, whether he was indeed the wife of this Chinese person, who was half owner of Bau-bérc Kft., where a complete recovery took place fortunately. The court has now stated in its final judgment that this property should be returned to the Hungarian State, because it belongs to the Hungarian nation's community, not to the property of Kft. or entities which subsequently provided for the right of the foundation to pass on such real estate if they cease to exist. These cases should be reported, some of which are only a few years old, but some have a 25 - year - old history. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-269	Thank you. Thank you very much, fellow Members, for being so attentive in the fifth hour of the debate. I would like to inform you that the Secretary of State, who is a member of the KDNP Group, has reduced KDNP's time, but this is purely technical, because this is how the technicians can solve it and subtract it from the Fidesz time frame, as I have informed you, the KDNP has given Fidesz its timeframe. I ask that you consider this not a political, but a purely technical matter, and watch with your eyes as time is drawn. [[György Balla applauds.]] However, this speech gave another Secretary of State the opportunity to apply for a speech, so I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-270	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to answer the question raised by Mrs Loránt Hegedűs. On the one hand, he mentioned that there were more than 300 billion forints of sewer investments, and there he also gave a name. I am pleased that you have been so well informed by the Congresswoman, but I would like to say that this is a small slide for two reasons. On the one hand, if it draws attention to technical problems, it is clear that this technical problem was included in the certificate of performance and that this performance was obviously not recognised. The other thing is, it's not the same contractor. I propose that you do so, either as an interpellation or as an immediate question, in the line of parliamentary questions, to ask whether this contractor has carried out these works, and then what has been recognised from the point of view of achieving them. What technical problems are there, and what remains clear is that it is a problem, and it has a question of corruption, please make the criminal report, and let us even talk about it again. But let's not slip into facts. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Loránt Violin: We've talked about it twice! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-271	Thank you very much. Mr. Sallai R. Benedict, LMP. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-272	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Let me respond to what has been said in a few words. First of all, there's one thing I want to tell you. There are a lot of definitions about the corruption we're looking at, aren't there? I've been looking for grade school. It comes from the Latin word "corruption," from the word "corruption," from the word "corruption." Bribery, an act in breach of law or public morality in which a person gives an undue advantage in exchange for money or other benefits or benefits. Regardless of the position in which the advantage is conferred, we can talk about, for example, political, administrative, police, military or economic corruption. As I have tried to quote today, the Hungarian Criminal Code basically defines this subject in crimes against the purity of public life. Therefore, Béla Kovács may be the most evil man in the world, but he has nothing to do with what we are talking about here today. Nothing! The first chapter of the special part of the Criminal Code is about crimes against the State. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Take him to the LMP.]] It's none of your business. My fellow Member, Erik Bánki, has long said what the government has done to avoid tax. It has nothing to do with corruption. An entirely separate part is economic crimes, also part of the special part. There are crimes against wealth and against the economy and financial crimes. It has nothing to do with corruption. We should talk about the purity of public life, and that is very interesting, because that is what Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi has actually said. First of all, I would like to apologise respectfully to the congresswoman for breaking her mouth, for not being disrespectful, for apologizing, and, second of all, for what is corruption itself. It is very, very strange, because in order to confirm what you have said, let me say that the 2010 article of the World Economy article:. The top 30 Hungarian scandals and corruption cases of the decade are listed in 2010. Technically, red sludge disaster, death victims of pyrotechnic companies 2004, price damages 2010, Key price, BKV 2008, Baumag, and I'm going through this, and interestingly, in 2010 27 out of 30 MSZP. That's very interesting, isn't it? At the same time, if we look at what will come up in the next government, I'll tell you what Google is bringing. The MET case is government corruption. Yeah, that's right, the energy trading, when we basically bought the gas by interrupting a company so that it could be given more expensively and someone could make a billion-dollar profit. Indeed, in the field of land applications, Google treats it as a case in which there has been a lot of abuse, but interestingly, public procurement promotions also happen with this. The case of Antal Rogán's neighbor when public procurement was illegally avoided is the same case, and the Minister of Propaganda is not present. Playgrounds in the abuse of EAFRD support. Exploiting land-based subsidies, exploding in 2013, unauthorized claims, Paks' studies, billion-dollar costs. And also, when Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi tells us not to give up four million forints, we do not do it at all, of course not. That's a lot of money. But when we're talking about billion-dollar orders here at the end of the century, they're taking the same money under the same hat that someone else might have taken out as a few million. [[19.30]] The end of the century case and the end of the century financing are typically such a case. Interestingly, Google also brings up the Fidesz administration's diploma and language exam scandals as well as those who have asked for it illegally. And then there's the banning scandal, the NAV case, the oil case, the Quaestor, the public media case. I think it is interesting to mention the public media because when Vice-President Gulyás Gergő said that the LMP starts with equal opportunities: there is no mention of it. It's also corruption to maintain a party TV under his name, and when he makes a $40 billion shortage, they fill the hole with public money instead of prosecuting his leader who made the shortage. It's corruption! That's why you're getting an undue advantage because the government itself is taking advantage of you in this media. All this is interesting, and I said that if we look at it in 2010, we'll find a stack of MSZP cases, and in 2015 there are front-running and fidesz cases in all these lists. So it's corruption itself, how the procedure starts. When there's a Fidesz government, they investigate MSZP cases. Do you think that in 2018, when you fall for something and someone here from the opposition ranks or from us takes over the government, there will be no corruption issues in 2018 or 19 alongside your names? Of course, a number of people will be involved, and then they will investigate the case of advertising contracts concluded without a tender, by circumventing public procurement. That's what this is about. It's corruption when one of the parties is investigating his political opponent. And that is what is happening in Hungary, and it is changed every four years or every eight years when we look at who. What Mr Mihály Balla drew attention to, on the subject of dog wellness, is one of the areas that I wanted to talk about in particular, because I fully agree with Mr MEP, the unbelievable sad failure of Hungarian rural development, that the past twelve years and a multitude of European Union subsidies have arrived in the country by supporting such dog wellness centres and similar developments, not only among many useful developments. Let me quote a fidesz politician, who said:, EU applications work in Hungary today by bringing the company down to the local government and saying: "If I complete the application and win it for you, but in return, I will do everything." If I don't have to, I'm going to go to town because I have a quota that I can share and I'm going to win. This was said by a Fidesz mayor, Mayor of Szekszárd, who told his fellow mayors of Fidesz how to raise funds wisely. I can't wait to be called to know if we have any evidence that he said that literally, so I'm ready for him. Because basically the problem is the problem in the system we're talking about. And let me just say that just so that I do not always say that I feel a very serious responsibility on the part of the European Union, that all of this could have happened in Hungary. After joining the European Union, after 2004, when EU funds and structural funds started coming into Hungary, the MSZP government first, and then you took over, did what the bad kid who got into the chocolate shop was filling his pockets without looking around. That's how they acted, filling the pockets. It is also the responsibility of the Union. At the time of accession, the Union treated Hungary as if it were a mature democracy, with a mature society, and society had control functions. But there wasn't. Just as we did not put a knife or a weapon in the child's hands, it was equally incredibly irresponsible to entrust a multitude of EU funds to the Hungarian political elite. And unfortunately, it hasn't changed to this day. This has been the case since 2004-2005 with EU funds, and we see this irresponsibleness in a multitude of previous cycles. And the problem is that it's happening right now. The question is whether you still have two and a half years until the next election, whether you can change this in the new cycle, whether you have the chance to want to change, because the problem is that the last five years have not proved this. What's going on in this country, and forgive me for bringing back the playground scandal, isn't that what I've dealt with most of the details, it's a very small item, they've given away less than two billion for public money to thieves; it's about going down to a local government, just like the mayor of Szekszárd said here, saying he's gonna win the tender, the municipality's happy that at least someone wants to bring money here and bring a playground. They say he's bringing it. They win 14 million, then they bring me there - there's a lot of these photos on my computer, I'd be happy to introduce them to anyone - some acacia logs, worse case pine logs, more common, and they leave a playground of 2 million, 1.5 million, 3 million. They'll take the rest of the money. What's the municipality doing? He looks, scratches his head, sees that it's not really worth it, but he's happy about it, because he's got a playground in his lap, he doesn't have to do anything, he says I'll sign it, I'll give him the certificate. The MVH inspector is coming out, what do you see? Wow, it didn't really cost that much, but I'll sign it, because the mayor of the government or not is pro-government, but a small settlement doesn't have a chance to approve it. Oh, my God, how did we pay for this? ! But he approves because he doesn't want to hurt the country, because he says that this baby is worth something. And so he goes through the system, and everyone's in on it, and not the people who got the money in their pockets, but the people who let that happen to the country's public money. And it doesn't have to be to get an undue advantage, because we're letting them go. And what did the Fidesz government do? He's not doing what he does to find and produce the kft that fooled these country kids who didn't get a high-quality Swedish playground like what's here between the White House and Parliament, in the Olympic park, but what's for nothing, that's rotting away in three years. We'll pay for it, we'll make it public. And this is the system in which we live, this is the EU support system itself. And the EU has an incredible responsibility for letting us do this with a completely weak hand. Look at it calmly, the May Other Politics has not once reported you to the European Union on such matters, we have only contacted the Union on an EU issue, we have never made a specific announcement against the Hungarian Government because we want the country to acknowledge that it is in the national interest to use such resources effectively, in the interests of society. And that can't happen. If billions of EU funds go away this way, it is obvious where the additional resources we collect from the tax are. The problem is, by looking at the Hungarian budget, what we are doing is trying to develop from European Union funds, and our own tax dollars and the government are reviving it up to its own hobbies and the maintenance of its own administration. It is important, for example, what happened in the case of tax collection in the case of the NAV mentioned several times, which Mr Tállai mentioned while he was here, because these cases, in effect, point to what was behind the banning scandal. To this day, the Hungarian government has not told us who have been banned from the United States, who are the NAV leaders, yet we do not know whether there is evidence against them, and to this day we do not know whether they will ever be prosecuted. And that's exactly what we're talking about, it's a very, very exciting topic, because the question is, how do you react to it? Thank you very much, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári, for bringing up this Faith, is that correct? - LMP congressman, who I was talking about - while I was looking into - and the Ladani. Yeah, the question is how a couple reacts to a case like this. None of them are now members of the LMP. Although none of them have been convicted, and none of them have been prosecuted in infringement cases. Because they teach us that it's not fair enough, it has to be. And the two people who were under the shadow of suspicion who were allowed to participate in one of these are no longer members of the LMP. While you hide and protect those involved. They are basically trying to make the work of the opposition impossible by making the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office do as little as possible in these matters. And the reason why it's important is what happened in the NAV ban scandal, what happened in the NAV case, what was the basis for the accusations that were in this particular green dossier, which doesn't have any procedure, because the question is how they respond to the protection of their own internal system, they expose those who violate the rules, who have entered into or are protected by them. The trend so far, which is visible in Hungary, is that you are protecting them. I acknowledge your activities in trying to uncover the blacklist of 2002-2010 governance, but I do condemn you for not doing anything to ensure that the same issues between 2010 and 15 are brought to light. And that's why we have to talk about corruption, and that's why it's not good to bring in economic crime and espionage and I don't know what, because that's not the topic of today's agenda. I ask you, when we appreciate today's debate - you still have 67 minutes to envy me - to focus on the results of the concrete steps you have taken in the legislative process. Because the fact that you can wave some of the legislation is because your governance... - unfortunately, most of the ministries are full of lawyers, and they think that it is a solution to something by bringing a legislative amendment here, submitting it, accepting it, and solving the problem. However, the lack of application of these laws means the death of the law, and, unfortunately, since the application of the law does not fulfil these stricter Btk. expectations of the crimes against the purity of public life, until Peter Polt has acted very, very hard in these matters, you and your government will remain under the shadow of corruption all the time, and this will not change as long as the situation remains so. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-273	Thank you very much. Ready, Congressman Zoltan, independent, please.
u2015-11-23-274	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, There's some charm in Fidesz's ability to only last eight years and smith's time on today's debate, and I can see that the only argument on the part of the ruling party is that if you've been stealing, then we're free, too. [[19.40]] But let's skip the mud throwing, and let's talk about suggestions. I have two suggestions on this subject. One is that there should be accelerated court proceedings in corruption cases in relation to public money and that there should not be years of waiting for a court ruling. The second proposal is addressed to my fellow opposition Members. I invite the parties together to look for a consensual person, a shadow attorney general, instead of the prosecution of Péter Polt, Fidesz's protective company. This person would document corruption cases and hand over documents in the event of a change of government. I feel that this is not just a matter for Members, but for everyone where public money is involved. Unfortunately, my colleague Hollik is no longer here. At the beginning, he said that corruption only exists in the opposition. I'll tell you now that we're living in my constituency, Veszprém, the corruption scandal of the decade. Internal audit revealed serious shortcomings in relation to the institutional service provider in Veszprém, such as irregular public procurement and the nullity of the general meeting decision. Still, the Fidesz mayor classified this leader's work as a threesome. Trial cleaning has been carried out on paper in Veszprém educational establishments, but it is suspected that these have not been implemented, but that only the public funds have been pumped out. There's an investigation under way that leads to the Fidesz Vice Mayor, whose building case they're investigating. For months, the mayor of Fidesz covered the scandal revealed by the local opposition politician, but the other day he filed a complaint to clarify his own responsibility. The suspected theft of public money took place during the period prior to the local interim election, and the Fidesz candidate is the already suspected deputy mayor, so there is also suspicion of illegal campaign funding in this case. Fidesz's local organization is very quiet about this case, and no member of the other fighting party refuses to prosecute. At the beginning of the debate day, my fellow Member Kontra said that justice would find out the truth. Secretary of State, I also hope that the justice system in Veszprém will find out the truth, because that is what both I and the Veszprém people expect. I would also encourage my fellow Members, who are here, who are better and who have LMPs, to encourage their representatives at local level to speak up on this matter and to enter the independent committee of inquiry that I have just proposed last week. In the end, little statistics on what is pulling the country back against the countries of the region. This is government favoritism, because based on the relevant index of the World Economic Forum, we see Hungary as one of the 125 countries of the world in this category, so bureaucracy is booming, the role of the state is increasing everywhere. The smaller the state, the less corruption. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support my proposal, to have a real consensus on opposition. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2015-11-23-275	Thank you very much. It's a two-minute lap. Congressman Dániel Z. Karpat is the first, Jobbik. Here.
u2015-11-23-276	Mr President, Dear House, One of my Fidesz fellow Members has just said that the government has tried to do everything in its power to keep entrepreneurs from playing tricks on paying taxes. In the beginning, this basic approach is strange given the fact that the EU record rate of 27 per cent of VAT is actually a hotbed for fraud and corruption, and that reverse VAT, which initially appears, can only be counterproductive if it is introduced in as many areas as possible in all the countries of the region. But we must note that the success propaganda on Hungarian government activity is at least undermined by the fact that while the EU average is 15-16 percent, this is still around 25 percent in Hungary. This is the huge amount of money missing between the VAT to be collected and the taxes actually collected as a result of the real economic processes. Based on previous data, there was a year 2012, when 3700 billion VAT should have been collected on the basis of economic processes, but only 2800 were managed. So a 900 billionaire, later 1000 billionaire, and then a little bigger afare strangles the economy constantly. There is no greater sign that a fraud tsunami is taking place in the Hungarian economy, and the government has not been able to deliver enough results in improving it, and not even the otherwise not very bright EU average has reached it. How did you answer that? Again, OECD statistics reveal this. It has created an overtaxed national economy where it has not only compensated for this deficit by overtaxing Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, but also by examining the incomes of an average, but a statistical average, two-children's household, which is a two-year-old household, we can see that the 4th most grossly taxed economic unit in the OECD countries investigated can be found in Hungary in this respect. So the Hungarian families are burdened with the 4th largest tax burden, which is quite amazing. In such a context, talking about tax matters and economic recovery is at least ridiculous. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-23-277	Congressman Erik Bánki, Fidesz, in two minutes!
u2015-11-23-278	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to Mr Sándor Burány's suggestion that the leaders of the Hungarian National Bank have introduced economic policy instruments that he believes support the government's economic policy and that the leaders are taking on unfair money. Well, I'd like to return to Andras Simor. András Simor, despite the fact that the Bank's 2012 financial plan was a deficit of HUF 203 billion, András Simor continued to receive the prize over the past years, thanks to which his annual salary exceeded HUF 150 million. I say that he did this despite the fact that he could not run the central bank profitably, and the loss, as my fellow Members know, must be replaced by the Hungarian budget, the Hungarian budget. Despite this, the central bank, led by György Matolcsy, was able to realise a profit of HUF 23.6 billion in 2012 compared to a loss of HUF 203 billion. That he did not raise the wages of the leaders, the President and the Vice-Presidents, but raised the wages of the employees in order to keep the talented workforce in Hungary. I do not think that this wage policy can be attacked. However, it is possible to argue that a central bank president will receive a reward, not in small quantities, in lots of tens of millions of HUF, when the functioning of the central bank cannot meet the otherwise expected requirements. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-279	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, State Secretary Péter Benő Banai has applied for a speech. Here.
u2015-11-23-280	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat mentioned things that, I think, are not factually true. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: I quoted it, I didn't mention it!]] Allow me, Mr President, to draw your attention to the European Commission's spring 2015 analysis on the issue of taxation in Hungary, which was less than in Poland, Slovakia or Romania in 2013. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] Thanks to the government measures that have already been mentioned several times, this gap has decreased significantly. So I think that we are talking about an area where more countries want to follow the Hungarian success, and measures such as the introduction of the online cash register system or the use of the EKÁER, or the use of the accounts summary, were precisely aimed at making the economy whiter. This was successfully implemented by the government. As a result of this, there are numerous extra expenses and revenue cuts, see family tax breaks, and they have coverage. So in this respect, I cannot agree with Mr President that we are talking about an overtaxed economy. Let's look at the indicators we had in 2010 and what indicators we currently have. I'm reporting no overtaxation. Public finances have been stabilised without an increase in the amount of taxes collected in proportion to GDP in this indicator. But then let me tell you something more specific about the family world. The family discount will leave 260 billion HUF in addition to the families next year. Personal income tax rates are dropping. As far as the tax burden on SMEs is concerned, let me just highlight three things. As one of the first measures of the government elected in 2010, SMEs reduced their corporate tax rate to 10 per cent from 19 per cent and later introduced kata, kiva, preferential tax rates. So I think that not only families, but also SMEs, have moved in a positive direction. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-281	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varju, independent, two minutes!
u2015-11-23-282	Thank you very much. Dear House, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I think you're trying to frame all those who speak against your corruption in the first place. They're trying to bring up 15-20-year-old cases while they're not talking about where your friends lost 150 billion forints from the Quaestor fortune this year. You're responsible for this. You are responsible for the transfer of traffik to your Fidesz associates, such as the family of the Director General of Miskolc Hospital, when you refer to health and youth when tobacco trafficking was reorganized. [[19.50]] You guys talk? At a time when Andy Vajna was given money and received an opportunity in a concession that I think could not be done in any European country, and by the way, you know exactly how he steals it from an offshore company, takes it out of Hungary, and you refer to it. Of course, they can do this because when honest people press charges, your attorney general becomes a defense attorney for these people, and he is the one who takes care not to be able to prove to the court that this is a crime. That's why with the stolen legislation and that, you can say things that have nothing to do with reality. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Zoltan's ready to applaud.]]
u2015-11-23-283	Thank you very much. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP, in two minutes.
u2015-11-23-284	Thank you very much. I just wanted to ask Minister of State Banai - when these tax matters arise, our fellow Member Erik Bánki mentioned these, which are related to small tax evasions, which you have experienced in small and medium-sized enterprises or in the NAV, compared to the cases we are talking about here, these are petty tax evasions, small tax evasions. What we need to talk about in this case, let us say, is organised crime, who has brought food with huge VAT fraud across borders and has avoided taxation; and it has to be said that there was an institutionalized NAV system of who covered for them. So let's not try to get these little ones out and talk about how they tried to get them out, either with the VAT or with someone else, because when we talk here, we have to talk about the reaction of society to the government itself, the NAV, who would have a job to prevent it from happening, how it is involved and how it is involved in all of this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-11-23-285	Secretary of State Peter Benő Banai, on behalf of the government.
u2015-11-23-286	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very briefly: firstly, as far as VAT fraud is concerned, I think that the government can be proud of anyone. With regard to large-scale international fraud: the EKAER system is aimed precisely at the transport of goods on paper and the reduction of cheated VAT; once. Mr. Congressman mentioned Deputy Minister Talai on the so-called charge that the government had only made use of the possibility of reverse taxation in respect of certain agricultural products since 2012. I have to say, in fact, that the government that took office in 2010 immediately started work on this issue, but it was not a sovereign competence of the Member States to introduce reverse taxation for certain products, but to ask for the European Commission's approval. So it has been some time since we received the approval from the European Commission, but I stress that in 2010 the government took immediate action in this area as well. Finally, with regard to the criticism of the NAV organisation, I must say that if there is specific information, there is suspicion of a specific case or specific person, I think that everyone has an obligation to report it to the appropriate official bodies. I encourage everyone to do so. The Ministry also strives to ensure that the NAV does its work properly in all respects, and, by the way, the restructuring of the organisation system, the central supervision, the fact that Deputy Minister Tállai is also the government commissioner organising the restructuring of the tax administration, I also think it indicates that the government considers the operation of the NAV to be of utmost importance at government level, at government level and at management level. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-287	We will return to your speeches. First of all, Congressman Font, Fidesz.
u2015-11-23-288	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, In my opinion, it is worth mentioning some of the stories that we may have known here in order to clarify at all whether the opinion is credible, the accusation that the opposition is trying to bring to the government side in relation to corruption. I therefore disagree with László Varju's argument that this debate does not make sense. Firstly, the opposition started and initiated this debate. He had to know that we do not believe that immoral or perhaps criminal acts would remain uncovered, or undiscovered, and that this would be found here. I would like to mention two cases that have been brought to light by me and that have been tried both by Parliament and in other cases by a committee of inquiry. One of the cases is the case of the Hungarian LEADER Public Benefit Association. On December 1, 2008, the Hungarian LEADER Public Benefit Association, this is a civil society association, asks the FVM to give them 500 million forints, because they would have a great idea of how to deal with the crisis, and they would then communicate this somewhat. This request must have been extremely strong for a civil society organisation, because during this period the FVM gave less than HUF 100 million to more than 200 civil society organisations for any request. Here comes only one organization to give them 500 million forints. The power is certain that he was with this association, because within 20 days the 500 million HUF was transferred to their account. In 20 days! In the meantime, a government meeting had to decide to draw reserves, because the FVM had no money at that time, and we were approaching the end of the year. On December 21st, he had the money in his account for this association. When I started asking: why is it important to support such an association to such an extent and what it was asked for, I have dealt with this matter for about a year and a half, in an interim letter, Minister Gráf, then Minister of Agriculture, makes the background agreement available. In this, the requesting association says that it wants to spend this HUF 500 million by preparing a ground-breaking study of HUF 60 million; website development of HUF 50 million; methodological background development of 70 million; availability, consultation of 50 million; county event organisation of 100 million; national event of 20 million; publication of 60 million; summary study of 50; project management of HUF 40 million. Extremely tangible items were listed, appreciably, but somehow the contractor, who signed the contract, did not perceive this. This was State Secretary Zoltán Gőgös at the moment, who finally felt that this request was based on the basis of which we signed. It is still a question to me today why József Gráf did not sign that contract anyway, but summa summarum, Zoltán Gőgös, signs this contract. We're going deeper into the matter, and we'd like to know who the real faces of this organization are and who they are. During my interpellation, which was also an intermediate part of this one-and-a-half-year correspondence, Melinda Kocsisné Rátkai, the president of this organization at the time of my interpellation, was also the vice-president of the MSZP's organization in Múllóvár; Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, the local government candidate for the then list of the county of MSZP Hajdú, is now a Member of the Parliament here of the MSZP, also a member of this association; Lajos Debrecen, the Mayor of Békéscsaba in 2006, is also a member of the presidency; and Katalin Molnár, Nógrád county, Mayor of Kazár settlement in MSZP. Aha! Thus, it may be understandable what might have happened, that the money was transferred within 20 days of the request. As a result of the multitude of my written questions, Joseph Graf could not stand by and see if this was okay, and initiated an inquiry into Kehi. I will not go on, the final result of the investigation is that some HUF 300 million could not be verified in this organization as to what it was spent on. There will be a change of government, and we will initiate the investigation of this matter. I would like to point out that there is now an order from the Metropolitan Court that ordered the association to repay 200 million HUF of aid. Of course, there's nothing to it. If Ildikó Bangóné Borbély were here, I would ask, as a member of the presidency or former presidency, what this association is doing now. Do you have any more? What did they spend the money on? And is there even a chance of repayment? I fear that there is no chance, but that the crime may be justified, so the FM filed an indictment in this case as a substitute private prosecutor for the crime of misappropriation and for the justified suspicion of other crimes in the summer of 2015. [[20.00]] This is where the case is at the moment. The characters are here, the stakeholders, the signatories, the users - Zoltán Gőgös, a signatory, and the Bangóné Borbély Ildikó behind him was a user. The money, 500 million forints, seems to have disappeared. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Another case, which has also come to light on my initiative, is a little older, it goes back to 2001, when VPOP does its work, and at Zwack Unicum Rt. initiates an investigation into an excise matter. Turns out it's Zwack Unicum Rt. It misjudges one of its products; it means that I put it in a very bad, very strong quotation mark, because it meant that when it was classified under the heading, it was only 125 HUF excise duty had to be paid to him after this product, but if he had classified the product under the correct heading, the rate of excise duty would have been 295 HUF. The customs authorities reveal this and set a tax back of around HUF 2 to 2.5 billion, without a penalty. That's a hell of a thing to say. In the meantime, in 2002, Péter Zwack will be a Member of the SZDSZ Parliament and a member of the SZDSZ faction. This is a bit confusing for the whole procedure, because the customs authorities themselves are handling the case, and these products will be sent to the VPOP Institute of Chemistry to clarify what classification this alcohol product should be subject to, i.e. the rate of duty it should be subject to. The clear statement of the chemistry lab that the classification under the light tax so far has been wrong should be classified under a higher rate of taxation. Meanwhile, Péter Zwack resigns as a Member of Parliament, 2002. In the 11th month. At this point, the investigation has been going on for a year and a half, and the procedure will be placed at the highest level of the Ministry of Finance. Sándor Burány, who was here this afternoon, was not here at this time, was the political secretary of state at the Ministry of Finance. There is a VPOP Director-General meeting in March 2003. The record of this was given to the committee of inquiry that I was conducting. Let me quote you from this report. At the VPOP Director-General meeting, the acting commander says: Mr Burány's request on the matter is to find a solution for the panel after the investigation, taking into account the sensitivity of the case. By the way, Mr Burány resigns in a few days as a political secretary of state at the PM, he goes to another minister's purse, but this is another story. Mr. János Veres, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, will replace him. At this point, the news is that something's not right here. Mihály Arnold initiates criminal proceedings in this case, and he, as commander, writes this to the Ministry of Finance's senior management. You will receive a negative response or a negative message. Mihály Arnold will resign if anyone remembers this in the spring of 2003. But the János Veres are creative. They will take the advice of Sándor Burány to find a solution to this matter. The technical analysis of the VPOP chemistry lab is not accepted by the Ministry of Finance, it alters it and says that otherwise Zwack Unicum Rt. is right. I'm telling you, the stakes are not small, they are 2.5 billion forints tax back, and this comes with multiple penalties when the tax back is established. The Ministry of Finance overrides the analysis of the VPOP chemistry lab under his supervision and says that everything was fine. But there's still a problem. We know that any such procedure can be reviewed retroactively for five years, in some cases even for a longer period, i.e. it can be detected. Therefore, in the autumn of 2003, an amendment to the excise law - a small part of the large excise legislation package, referred to in Article 21. The opening of Section 2 of the Act, in which it is described literally that the tax drawback, tax liability and legal consequences of companies involved in matters relating to tariff classification cannot be examined retroactively after the entry into force of the law. This is the end of the story. Since 1990, we have not seen such legislation - I have looked at it - since the government itself made a decision that those who were supposed to have accumulated tax backlogs by way of an irregular procedure were retroactively exempted by the fact that, due to the entry into force of this law, it even prohibited the establishment of proceedings or any legal consequences. This brilliant, clever move came under the final votes as a government motion from the then Minister of Finance, János Veres, Secretary of State for Finance. Well, I just wanted to remind you, dear László Varju, of these two very well-known cases, that you make it sound a little bad when, I know, we are being accused of corruption or suspicion of corruption. With these facts and these cases, I have tried to recite that this defamation procedure is untrue from your mouth. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-289	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP Group, will be speaking. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-11-23-290	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Sándor Font said it more carefully than his fellow Members who slandered me before, so I'm telling you now that I'm not going to press charges against you, Sanyi. [[Defiance. Sándor Font intervenes.]] By the way, I've filed a complaint against everyone who's made a false statement in this case. But let me make one thing clear: you did have a spare private office on the part of the Ministry, because the Department of Legal doesn't even have the brains to do it because it doesn't know that a public prosecutor's office can't take over, so this case is closed at second instance, but of course, I have also launched the case against the Ministry. Because this story was nothing but a proper political discredit, because I don't think that the Fidesz-controlled prosecution would have investigated this case correctly, and closed it - not now, but last year - without a crime, because my name was nowhere else, because they were investigating an unknown unsub. Nevertheless, my fellow Members have accused me of everything from money laundering. You can do that anyway, it's okay, but you also need to know that everyone has to answer for it. I would add that I didn't ask anyone for money - just to stand up and say they were lying - as opposed to those who sued me for credit abuse in other cases, including Minister Fazekas, who lost the lawsuit against me in the first instance. But speaking of corruption, it's exciting enough that Minister Fazekas is protected by a lawyer who, by the way, has been assigned tens of millions of dollars from the Ministry. You shouldn't be so petty, because I don't have the coffin trailer, my dear friends. I think that today clearly has many lessons; yes, and I also welcome Senator, who was at Lockheed Martin at the time, and I have a lot to say. Maybe I'll say a few things, especially the fresh ones, because not everyone knows about it. However, I think that we should at least take it from this day, that, of course, we are hurting each other a lot, that everyone here is trying to accuse each other, but perhaps there is only one proposal - and not for the first time, I have to say this - from President Vona, perhaps we could do things that we have submitted, a lot of cases that could prevent corruption; that cannot be prevented, I might add, but at least contain it, only if it is systemic, it is difficult. What I'm saying is, let's consider this day as a day for everyone to press charges against themselves and start an investigation into their own assets. [[Hungarian Zoltán applauds.]] Now it's okay for everyone to do it, or let's just talk about how one of us is gonna be prosecuted. Because I think for someone who has nothing to hide, especially those who have lived on politics for 25 years and never had another normal job in their lives, it's supposed to be a clear picture. But, fellow Members, when we see here, and the public sees responsible leaders, say, with a net income of one million forints, spending six million, eight and ten, and when they're building the 50th house for themselves, we should think a little bit about not saying, at least, boys, well, that's what it is and that's what it is. Okay, we know there are good parents, there are friends who give the loan without having to give it back, but I think we should just look at what people travel from, say, millions of forints to concerts when 30-40 percent of people in Hungary are starving. [[20.10]] How can you throw a million-dollar suit or jacket into a trash can, name-name suit, who can throw that away, fellow Members? Who has a monthly income of at least HUF 10-15 million, because it doesn't matter. [[György Balla: How can they date Mercedes?]] Yeah, with a 15-year-old, which just burned, I bought a $3 million car instead, by the way, just for the record. And I have to say, I didn't... do you know, fellow Members, when was the last time I built? In 78. [[Dr. Vas Imre:.78?]] If I just look at my fellow politicians in my own environment and see how many houses they've built and built, I think we should think about what they're using. By the way, I'm just telling you, and I'm telling Mr. President, in 2006, it was distributed that all the land was mine on the papal bypass, obviously they knew exactly what it was about, and then I made everyone's declaration public, even to someone who shouldn't have, and I could look at it, because I had 0.6 hectares on that bypass, I'm just saying. But obviously it was good, I understand, not everyone saw that I made it public, but the news that all the land was mine next to the papal bypass, of course, everyone knew because there was the media then to take the necessary steps. That's what I'm suggesting to ourselves, before anyone here tries to read anything on the other person's head, so we can get inside ourselves and start a procedure like this. All opposition proposals must be taken out, my honourable fellow Members, which are about combating corruption, and if there is nothing to hide, in particular, from some of the Fidesz people who have been sent in here to be suckers, please note this. - by the way, the figures who spend the money with both hands... I watched two news today: Andras Giro-Saxon's savings increased by 171 million in ten months. [[Intercom from Jobbik: Good saver!]] Right? That's good. [[Intercom from Jobbik: Good job!]] The second is that they won't prosecute Rogán's neighbor, who was assigned 600 million and 9 trucks before. So this is the problem, fellow Members, that should be dealt with; these are the cases that, if they were not so obvious, then perhaps our prestige would be a little bigger. There are cases here where you just stand and watch. The latest case is a major interview by the head or president of the MVH, when instead of explaining why the area payments were not paid, he stands out and says that he had to fire half the stock because of the problems. He did not add one thing: that the stock was appointed by them in 2010, and that four of the stock were in charge of senior prisons, in advance, again, because it was released, was now returned after the number of defendants over 80 in the case of the Mafia, from a mafia where the smaller fish found out that if it could be stolen on top of it, they would have to try at the bottom, and they only wanted to steal one and a half and two billion of EU funds; thank God we indicated in time, and they were forced to put them in advance within two days. So I think that when a person, a responsible leader, stands up, he should also pay attention to this, at least to appearances. Which, of course, I do not understand - the police have been talking here, and I will say to the Secretary of State here - that for two years there has been an investigation into a matter that I think cannot be called into question. The Ministry until then. His secretary of state will take care of a case where his chief advisor's potatoes, rotten potatoes, bought with state money, are distributed in their villages, so that it was distributed before the government's decision was made, and this went through the Reserve Management Institute. It's a billion-dollar issue, I just want to say. Mr Font, I didn't see you interpell or question this, even though a lot of people in your constituency said they got fucking potatoes for free, but that didn't make any seed potatoes, that's for sure. Why is this so complicated, Mr. Secretary, what is there to look at? Who gave the assignment, who bought it, who bought it from where, and then it's been two years. That's why no one believes the police. Or I'll tell you another: we filed a fictitious address in Nagyesztergár, the police went out, the lady who was supposed to have lived with her, that she had never seen it, but it was written in her paper that she lived here. It's closed, it's not fictitious, it's entitled to a land contest. What happened next? - It's a fresh case. I don't think the Secretary of State knows, but he might know. After winning the land, he thought that he had an earlier one of his own, put it out on the ad, sold it for 12 million, of course, the state immediately exercised its pre-emptive right, the NFA bought it, so that he first rented another one, and then rented it back to the state in 60 years. That's something to think about, isn't it, Secretary of State? It's a Fóti entrepreneur, you can see that the NFA used the pre-emptive right for 12 million, and then within six months it rented the land back to the same person, which will never return in life. If this isn't corruption, then nothing is corruption! I can say a lot of things, but I'm not sure I will, because I've taken enough time to answer my fellow Member Font, but I'll say one more thing, but I'm just saying the Hortobágy. Now it turns out how cattle and sheep came out of the system, there's only one problem, Mr. Secretary: that by chance the poor sheep, who didn't really adjust on the ground, got mixed up in another team, and there they looked at his ear number, and he has an ear number, a company that's supposed to have a sheep that hasn't existed in three years. [[Sallai R. Benedict: That's why the Potter can't count it! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] So I'm just saying this because there was a Kehi test on the Hortobágy, there was everything, we can see that cattle are being chased by dogs to crush the pasture, because no one's been on it for a year, and they're still afraid they won't get the support. We should pay attention to these things, and then I'm not sure that the solution is that I'm still leaving them in the hands of a gang of thugs that, by the way, has successfully acquired the land with a good sense, not because they want to work on it, but because they have good support for it. We'd be happy to come down and invite you, Mr. Secretary, let's go down together, and then let's take a look at this, because they're always texting from here, the Ministry, you and Lazarus, instead of going to the scene, and then you'll be convinced of what the Hungarian reality looks like. I think it's... anyway, there's 15 more written here, but the disturbance of abundance, I told you this morning, because some radio asked me what I was going to talk about today, and the problem is that there's a disturbance in abundance. The only way to hold this is if everyone here takes a deep breath, who thinks he's decent, and they try to exclude someone who isn't. The only problem - I'll say it again - is that corruption on the top of this system is going to be so high that every little fish is going to get bloody and constantly corrupt. The Secretary of State was head of department at the Ministry, there was a lot going on, didn't we, we tolerated it at the time, no matter how... [[Dr. Bitay Márton Örs: Me?]] No, no, no, no, we're talking about Beno. And should we also consider that when there is already a thousand billion VAT fraud, shouldn't there be a reduction in VAT? Isn't it the same as oil-bending, Mr. Secretary, that they cheated with oil until they raised the price of fuel oil to the price of gas oil? It should just be down here, not up, but down, and then it wouldn't be worth cheating, and there wouldn't be any less revenue for the state. You gotta take a deep breath once. Just, you know, when you catch a big chain partner in Győr, and the next day, you have enough of the biggest store in the same big chain with all your cash registers, then Minister Varga says to me that there's been an investigation for three years, I'm just signaling, and you can't give me any information. We should also consider how they can cheat 26 billion in Hungary with sugar that we have a sugar factory. Why do you have to change customs every month to investigate this? Can anyone in their right mind explain that? It's obviously because it's in someone's best interest to keep this up, and there's a lot of money out of it. What you're talking about here is petty petty petty business. There's a thousand billion-dollar story here, Mr. Secretary, a thousand billion-dollar man, in the VAT and everything else. That's something we should be dealing with. So, ladies and gentlemen, this debate obviously made sense, and I believe that this should continue. But the good thing is that if the governing parties really saw that it couldn't go on, that they couldn't cover themselves, that they weren't investigating who they were investigating, that the D.A.'s office would shut down that he didn't think that everything happened, but it didn't, because they were covering up crime. I don't think all the politicians and representatives of Fidesz are corrupt, but at least we're trying to stop them together, stop those who are - maybe it's not too late. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-23-291	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gábor Törõ, Member of the Fidesz Group, will be speaking. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-11-23-292	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, First of all, I would like to respond to Mr Sallai's suggestion of democracy so that the opposition or minority can now appoint a President, President of the Republic or other appointments. I think that this is not happening in any country; the Ambassador of the United States of America to Hungary is an ambassador because he has collected the most support money. [[20.20]] I'd also like to respond a little to the ground corruption charge. I notice that my fellow Member has the corruption in the sale of land in which he loses or does not win. I would also respond to my fellow Member Varju's suggestion. He mentioned child poverty at the beginning of his speech. I'm just telling you that when he finished his rep, and then for a few weeks, he started over, he took the severance pay. I'm telling you, it wasn't corruption, it was completely legal, but to me, it almost seemed like when Gábor Simon walked the hunger march and talked about poverty. When I was preparing for this debate day, I tried to select the headlines in the media that appeared in almost every press product. I compared the Index, the Origo, the Népszabadság, the Magyar Nemzet, HVG, the Weekly Answer, and the headlines that I list have appeared in each medium, regardless of their affiliation. The contribution of Ferenc Juhász to the purchase of László Fapál's apartment, the black Cassa at the Yózsefváros MSZP, hundreds of millions of forints in Gábor Simon's account, Dezső Believable is accused of accepting a bribery of his office, properties sold at a price in Terézváros, a commercial agency sold at four times the price in Moscow, the Democratic Coalition, a one-and-a-half billion commission from Brussels to Altus, the home affairs of Ágnes Vadai, and Jobbik, although they say that there is almost a traitor in the European Parliament in Hungarian colours, Béla Kovács, [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] Jobbik couldn't account for the public money, the vice president's company was phantomized into a company cemetery, Iranian, Turkish and Russian businessmen have money in Jobbik. [[There's a noise in Jobbik's ranks.]] Of these, I have chosen to comply with Congressman Sallai. I chose two cases that were actually in prison cases. One is the Hunvald case - we know he spent nearly two years in prison - and the other is the Zuschlag case. I would like to stop wasting my fellow Members' time because it is quite clear that the Hunvald case has been open since spring 2008. We know what happened, we know what he did in 2008, we know what he did in 2009, we know what happened in 2010, what companies got orders. But the same was seen in the case of the Zuschlag, which began in 2005, and we know how, with how many contributors, who was questioned, including the Prime Minister, State Secretarys, ministers, and we also know that 15 of his associates were brought into action against them. And as you can see, Hagyó, Zuschlag, and their accomplices were most interested in getting as much out of the joint as possible. I would like to draw attention, with a positive example, to how, in contrast to what has been said above, we can increase the public's assets, and I would like to mention the EKÁER, which Mr. What I can say is that in this context, the difference between the opposition and the ruling party can be played. That's what I can tell Adolf Novak. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-11-23-293	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I know it's very late at night, but please, let's honor each other by listening to each other. This is also addressed to Congressman President Novak. Dear Parliament, Mr Szilágyi György, Member of the Jobbik Group, will now take the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-11-23-294	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I don't promise to speak as highly as I did to the previous speaker, but I'm trying to gather what I think of this whole case. Ladies and gentlemen, With regard to the extent of corruption today, we have a number of international research and figures that are truly depressing. However, much more talkative is the immunity that has developed in a large part of society when it comes to news of corruption. Unfortunately, this is not only talkative but also devastating, because it is a true reflection of the relationship between politics and society. The fact that the media does not essentially pass by seven times without account being taken of the recent pull of a well-known top-of-the-line Fidesz politician or even of Fidesz, to put it mildly, led people to take note of these events, and not to be bullied. To give practical examples, people no longer realize that Andy Vajna, government commissioner, casino king, is buying television channels for 20 billion forints. Just as they do not wonder that Lőrinc Mészáros reaps not only his gigantic fields but also in public tenders financed by public funds. In fact, they are not surprised at the modern-day Hungarian folklore, where the simple village gas mechanic became mayor for the first time, and then became one of the hundred richest people today, just as no one was surprised when Antal Rogán's apartment grew from week to week, in a row, as he had to make new declarations of assets. Such an increase has been seen only in the growth of the settlement bond market over the past period. Moreover, people are not surprised that a settlement of 1800 people, where a modern stadium is being built next to Viktor Orbán's garden, exists in the world, and not only will there be an ultramodern stadium in this 1,800-person settlement, but also a small railway and a kind of boiler room of Makovecz so that, if necessary, the two football courts can be heated with which they can operate. Moreover, people were not surprised that you have introduced a completely new corruption sector in the last five years, and this is the system of sport corruption, which is very well run in this country. And then older cases like Tamás Deutsch's stadium admission systems and gates, we don't even talk about them. All of this means that people have now taken note of the fact that the person who is Viktor Orbán's buddy, these things are natural. It seems that XX. For the past 25 years, the parties of the century, Fidesz and MSZP, have been trying to bid each other on corruption in terms of corruption, which is nothing more - and let us state this - than a common and common and legitimate economic crime. However, the accounts promised in the heat of the elections have all failed, remember László Keller, Ferenc Papcsák or Gyula Budai. These people failed because despite the good-sounding election promises, there was no intention of investigating dirty cases in the first place, both sides knew precisely that there was butter behind the other ear, and also that there was exactly what. Therefore, the game of accountability did not lead anywhere, it was a mere charade for the voters of one side and the other side. The promises made in connection with the discovery of corruption cases, the elimination of corruption, and the real facts do not overlap, but they do not even have a set of commons, and we have come to the point that the government does not want to cover up any abuses anymore. We can talk about the tramps, the land, the gambling, it doesn't matter that family, friendly relationships are obvious anymore. They think people talk about it for a while and then move on. It's refreshing, but it's just as rare when a politician in scandal has to step back at least. That's part of the score. Of course, the right solution would be to move away from public life, not only those involved in questionable transactions. For example, the case of L. Simon László or former Zsiga Marcell. They're the ones, you know, who both liked solid casings in front of their houses. However, I must say that their cases are a drop in the sea. He is currently sitting in the benches of Fidesz, the mother of one of the traffic kings of Sopron, an ex-Development State Secretary whose term of office was supported by tens of billions of organisations with unknown owners listed in Cyprus, the Marshall Islands, Gibraltar, the British Virgin Islands and the Coral Islands and other exotic countries. [[20.30]] So it seems that everything, but everything revolves around the doghouse, working 24 hours a day to figure out how to shape the rules, shape the processes so that some people can do very well with them. What happens to the rest of society, what the public interest wants, no one cares. I am convinced that if I went out to the House now and asked ten people to say three words, which are typical of you, out of the three of the ten, I am sure that you would be corrupt. And unfortunately, that won't change. And the biggest negative part of today's debate is that, unfortunately, I realize you don't even seem to think for a moment when you read on your head such scandals as MET, Andy Vajna or Trafikmoty, and when you say that I don't give you my name, it's untenable, it needs to be stopped; it may have been so far, but it's enough now, let's change it. I don't see any change in you. There are two reasons for this: 1. or you will benefit from these goods; 2. you have also accepted that there is enormous corruption in this country, but then you are not fit for Members. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-295	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman János Volner, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-296	Thank you, Mr. President. Secretary of State mentioned that the government did not grant support to offshore companies, because it couldn't have done that. Indeed, he could not have done it legally, but I call to the attention of the Secretary of State on 27 March 2013 when I found 74 offshore companies working together with my fellow Member, György Szilágyi. For 74 offshore companies, the Hungarian government paid HUF 21 billion in public money. So you supported offshore companies. And in order to avoid misunderstandings, we're talking about companies registered to classic offshore sites, like the Cayman Islands, Seychelles, Gibraltar, and I could continue. So in this case, there can be no misunderstanding. Classic offshore companies were supported by the Orbán government, while the government claimed the opposite. We asked Minister János Lázár about who owns these companies, and we want to know who is behind these companies as individuals. More than once, Minister, he didn't respond to this. The data was hidden, the money was stashed, and our report was rejected as usual. That's the situation, unfortunately. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-297	Thank you, Congressman. Mr László Szakács, MSZP Group, will be speaking. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-298	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I think this debate is quite seriously unworthy. It is unworthy because I think that is why today's Hungarian politics keeps me here, and that is why today's Hungarian public life keeps me here. Because everyone thought that the corruption debate day, the day of debate on corruption, was about everyone reading the table of contents, and we were going to have a reverse majority contest. It's like a fishing competition, but it's a little bit of a catch, isn't it? That's what this is all about. By the way, our fellow Member Gábor Törő also remembered that he thought the opposition had a lot more shame than the government parties have, and that is fine. That is why politics in Hungary and politicians have the least prestige possible today. There are statements of fact where there should be only assumptions, it doesn't matter if the person we're talking about is here, he's not here, he's alive, he's fish, he's guilty, he's not guilty, this House says everything. We're about to be judged. I'm just telling you now, if you read back the minutes, how many facts you can only write down in a judgment, after procedures, after proper procedures, instead of what you dare to do here. Then, let's see, a few years ago, who was unbelievable, suddenly became a saint. This is János Zuschlag, because most of the time he was referred to and his claims, but of course the saints were dropping, because Lajos Simicska, we see that he has descended, and now what he has done is no longer true, that was no longer so, and you believe that he should be persecuted in this matter. I was thinking that we should not raise the threshold and discuss how to make transparency more effective and increase the public. How to make effective forms of control, freedom from influence, accountability in this country. And then perhaps it would make sense to read these debates, rather than reading the lists of contents, and listing supposed or real crimes, supposed or real facts, would be an unworthy day of debate. Thank you all very much for your attention. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-11-23-299	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman László Varju applied for a two-minute speech, independent. You have the floor.
u2015-11-23-300	For the time remaining, thank you very much. I see Congressman Gábor Törő has already fled, but he has inspired many of us. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that if you want to name names, you should also remember Tamás Varga and Attila Várhegyi, and then you can be involved in a lot of things. But what I do thank him, however, for mentioning that László Varju, I, as a Member of Parliament, when I became a Member of Parliament once again to your grief, forgot to say, Member, that yes, I have repaid what was due to Parliament in this respect. Thank you very much. [[György Balla: But you're busted.]]
u2015-11-23-301	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with the speeches. I give the floor to Mr László Pósán, who has already asked for the floor in a normal time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-11-23-302	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, as a policyr, to mention a few things specifically regarding the area of education. Congressman Cook said the debate was unworthy. You're right in many ways, just not the logic you argued. I think it is unworthy because, for example, the title given to today's debate is that, as I look at the educational interface, after 2010, thank God, we have made things right in this area. But before that, it was full of corruption cases. Think about the scandals in the educational wallet led by free Democratic Minister Bálint. It began with, in my memory, when it was decided in principle that there should be a Habsburg Institute, and before the establishment of the institute, 20 million forints were simply given, and then, one year before the establishment actually took place. Or let us just remember that when András Wagner, also a free Democrat politician, led the management board of OM, HUF 2.5 billion was earmarked for the need to renovate and expand the IT asset park of higher education institutions. At that time, the portfolio sent out orders to universities, on which they also wanted to buy non-legally transportable products not included in the procurement price list, indicating, of course, the potential supplier companies and the purchase of products that could be obtained free of charge. Or remember another, the Cisco scandal; Hungarian Bálint was also the minister. Minister of State, Lajos Sári Deputy State Secretary, György Csepeli, political secretary of the Ministry of Informatics and Communications, paid for his so-called U.S. travel by Cisco Systems IT company, and the Ministry of Education signed an agreement with the company with a value of HUF 70 million without public procurement. The representative of Cisco Systems took part in the advice of the Sulinet programme, the council where decisions were made on technological developments. I note it in parentheses, just as no American diplomat was running around at that time and said that corruption in Hungary was terrible. It was the Ministry of Education, led by Bálint Magyar, that bought virus detection software for HUF 230 million gross without competitive competition. This wallet and this minister are also bound by the Sulinet web scandal, as are PPP investments. On the other hand, although everyone said it then, and all reasonable and reasonable economics slogans said that concluding a contract where, after 20 years, the property in question would not otherwise be in the possession of the State, it is quite simply nonsense. And the question is rightly raised to this day, because we have not been able to answer whether it is in the interest of state decision-makers to shorten the Hungarian state to such an extent. The Sulinet Express scandal, I think, is once again memorable to a number of our fellow Members and a number of people interested in politics. 103 out of 169 applicants were immediately excluded for formal reasons, and there were companies that could win despite the fact that the liquidation proceedings in the course of the tender were otherwise excluded, but could have started. During this program, a number of companies got rid of cheap machines with outdated configurations, while others simply made luxury purchases with public support. [[20.40]] The privatization of the National Book Publisher is also the product of this period and period. The privatisation of the National Book Publisher, the winner of which was the business partner of Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány, Ákos Erdős. For HUF 3.2 billion, he obtained the National Book Publisher with the highest bid of HUF 4.2 billion. For what mysterious reason, I leave it to everyone's fantasies. The student ID tender was also the product of this period. Similarly, two out of three applicants were excluded, one remaining. The subcontractors of this only competing company were also interestingly Ákos Erdős and offered three times the value of the student ID at that time. I think everyone remembers cocoa-proof computers from Kálmán Kovács' age: 300 computers were purchased for 300 million forints that were otherwise not equipped with anything extraordinary, extra. The procurement was issued for a particular product of a single supplier. And between 2006-2009, let us also remember the activities of Tímea Borovszky, Director-General for Equal Opportunities of the Ministry of Education, who has simply outsourced the basic tasks to companies in which the staff and staff of the portfolio participated. Ladies and gentlemen, These things ended after 2010, and I think it is safe to say that the issue of corruption in the field of education has and will not be in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-303	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr László Teleki, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-304	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think that these debates are very much needed, because there are many times that the public is plagued by some things that seem to be corruption or corruption, which must be answered, if not elsewhere, here, within the walls of Parliament. When I say that it is very important, then we can really say the voice of the conversations in the corridors, or the voice of the public, either outside the parliamentary sitting room, or here about the things that ruffle the moods. I think you probably know and you can imagine why I spoke on behalf of Flórian Farkas and the National Roma Municipality. I'm not as lucky as Flórian Farkas in the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party, because if there were so many or only one corruption charges against me, then I should stand up and tell you if I've actually done something or not, so I should protect myself. [[György Balla: This is how it really went in the social community!]] Flórian Farkas can do so alone in this Parliament with your support, with pro-government support, that he does not have to speak for nearly a year, and he does not have to say here in Parliament that I have not committed any violations, so I reject any accusations made by LMP, Jobbik, MSZP in the last year. So I think that this is why Flórian Farkas is privileged in any case, I am not so privileged, and I would not be so privileged in the Hungarian Socialist Party as I know my party. [[György Balla: You misjudged him!]] He would push you and say, my dear fellow Member, yes, if you are wrong, then you will have to answer for your sins, if not, then tell me. So I think that if we go back to what I have said many times in various speeches, then the answer will be again what Minister János Lázár has done at the end of the last week, that he will have the confidence of the government in Flória Farkas. However, you can see that you do not enjoy the trust of the people, because the cases that have been raised within the National Roma Municipality, I think that you may have to answer them outside the walls of Parliament, even in various legal situations, because this can no longer be ignored, because I think that you, Fidesz people and Christian democrats also have to answer in various public forums why Farkas Florian is being protected. What is the reason why they can still protect him so much, when, by the way, he seems to be indefensible because he has committed so many crimes, at least on the basis of the press and other information. I'll tell you a few things. Car rentals started with the fact that cars were rented for hundreds of thousands of forints a month at the National Roma Municipality. We have been saying this for nearly ten months from each side of the horseshoe, that this should be investigated, to see if hundreds of thousands of forints were actually spent on car rentals every month, not in the big category, but perhaps in the small and medium category Opel Astrak or Opel Corsák. But I'd like to go further: studies were ordered for tens of millions of forints. You can also go to the Azores to study about the Roma, and there you can do anything without punishment; here, even in the National Roma Municipality, I see that it is not enough to study, and it is not enough to learn from the situation that we can see in Borsod, Szabolcs or even in the Ormany, but to study what poverty looks like with the Roma in Hungary. So I think that this certainly suggests the legal situation and the real situation of whether we really treat public money as otherwise required, if we do not see the piles of studies that we already have, whether in the National Roma Municipality or in various sociological researches, and otherwise can be drawn from life. So if you go to the countryside, my fellow Member László Szakács and I have been going through the Ormany last week, we have held several forums, and poverty is amazing. Poverty is amazing, and it can be said that if it takes a study to see this, then there is a very big problem. But I would go further: when it is said that tens of millions of forints are needed to obtain computers in the framework of the National Roma Municipality's programme. Bridge to Work, we question whether the vast number of computers that we already have and have purchased... - where it is necessary to get more tens of millions of forints of computers and actually spent, or whether the spending we can see was really intended for the purpose, or it was also a spending of money that will definitely increase not only public opinion but also the work of lawyers. I would go further: they say that they tried to limit the salaries during your administration. You will not believe, according to the press reports, a professional leader in the National Roma Municipality pays 1.2 million forints a year. Again: 1.2 million HUF/month. [[Interviews from Jobbik: Is it now a year or a month?]] Per snow, per month, a professional leader earns 1.2 million forints a month, I'll say it again: 1.2 million. The other: the financial manager earns 1.4 million forints per month in the same place at this workplace. So where's the limit you set and tried to adjust? Of course, it is not a government institution, but I definitely think that if you can pay so much money, then why not support real jobs that would help Roma people to work, why not try to pump such money into health care at the National Roma Municipality, if you are already so good at finance that you can do this? But I would like to go further with a few thoughts: how is it that the only NGO, Lungo Drom, led by Flórián Farkas, could have received a headquarters in Budapest alone, in the capital, which is supposed to have a cost of up to HUF billions? The other organizations didn't get close, not only to receiving a small village community house, but they didn't happen in the big cities, but here the Lungo Drom, Flórian Farkas, because he favored Fidesz, so they gave this opportunity. I would like to ask the members of the government whether it is okay that no other civil society organisation is, but only Lungo Drom can get this license to get a seat in Budapest for this amount. Of course, it could be classified - as many have already said - the various things that, I think, would be absolutely justified, but if we said that based on the press reports that you can see and hear, Lungo Drom had spent nearly HUF 5-6 billion in the National Roma Municipality on things that could otherwise have been spent on other things, then I would have said that Flórian Farkas, the representative of the National Roma Municipality, should have thought about how to spend more on education, employment, health care and not on their own wealth. [[20.50]] But if I'd gone a few more ways, I'd say they could have helped me eliminate the hunger of the child, but all of this wasn't in Farkas' Floorians' program, and it looks like there's no way they'd ever be able to account for what happened at the National Roma Municipality. We see and know only one thing: yes, we protect Florian Farkas, even if public opinion and now perhaps the authorities who are investigating see that there is something in this mess that will definitely turn up. Of course, I do not want to advance what will happen, but one thing is certain: the governing parties have a responsibility in this, how they want to deal with this issue, because if they do not handle it, I would like to say that not only the Lungo-Drom and not only the National Roma Municipality, but also the Gypsies in Hungary, because they say that Gypsies cannot be trusted. This is why the government has a responsibility to speak not only about Flórian Farkas, but about the Roma in Hungary, because it is not possible to try to condemn a group of people just because what is happening is happening in the National Roma Municipality. I'll get it on the street several times, too. What are you doing with Flórian Farkas, what will happen to you? I can't say he's in Fidesz and he's in politics. Of course, he's a gypsy man, but we can't suffer collective guilt just because the government is out of power trying to protect Florian Wolf. I think it is imperative that the government or governing parties do something in this regard to speak on Flórián Farkas about what he wants with corruption charges, whether there is, or if there is no corruption at his time in the National Roma Municipality. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-305	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will take the floor and give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-23-306	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Member forgot to mention the cases that were in the socialist period, since the procedure against Orbán Kolompár was launched in autumn 2008. Some of them started on account of 13 million forints of non-calculation in the case of an association. [[László Teleki: Socialist Representative? Zoltán Gőgös: He has never been a Member of Parliament!]] But the Bács-Kiskun County Attorney General's Office accused Orbán Kolompár of a total abuse of HUF 145.5 million. They submitted supporting documents on economic events that have not been implemented and thus allocated EU and budgetary resources. Finally, because of the acquisition of undue economic advantage, [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] [[Interviews in the ranks of the MSZP.]] In another case, Orbán Kolompár was sentenced to one year and ten months in prison for similar crimes. These are matters which have taken place during your period, honourable Member, and where there are final judgments. (Intercoms in the lines of the MSZP. ) Here you have made various accusations, which are not based on any form of prosecutorial or judicial document, and these are court judgments with negotiated and recusals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: We didn't hide these cases! Crying from the ranks of the MSZP: Secretary of State, it's called...]]
u2015-11-23-307	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Everyone's got a chance to comment, so let's keep it to ourselves. A speech will be made by Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, Fidesz Group.
u2015-11-23-308	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Well, today's anti-corruption debate, if nothing else, certainly made so much sense that it became clear to the public that the opposition was swarming with corruption issues. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Bitay Márton Örs: It's not ridiculous!]] It has already been discussed in today's debate - I would just like to remind you - about the Csillebérc case, the Sukoro case, the corruption cases and real estate issues of the SZDSZ, the oil affairs, the broker scandal, the key price issue, the destruction of the Malév, the visit fee machines, HospInvest or even the Simon case, the abuse of the LEADER programme, the Hajdú-Bet scandal, the case of cocoa-resistant claviatures [[Zoltán Grimlock: It wasn't said! Bitay Márton Örs: Was, but you weren't listening!]] Or the questionable privatisation of the National Book Publisher. And in the introduction, indeed, VIII was mentioned. District MSZP's black cassava business. It is now worth adding to this another issue, which concerns the area of culture. [[Zoltán Grimlock: György Fekete!]] Let's just remember the National Film Archive leadership scandal. At the beginning of 2007, the protagonist, András Bozóki, exculturist minister, confirmed the news that Ferenc Gyurcsány ordered the Bozóki who was still in office, not to apply for the post of head of the National Film Archive, but to stay there, István Szabó's wife, Vera Gyürey, whose mandate would have expired by then. Szabó himself asked Gyurcsány to take care of this little thing. Well, he took care of it. Ladies and gentlemen, this was the way it went, and it was the only way to settle matters. Ladies and gentlemen, The period between 2002 and 2010 was full of corruption cases, and today the people who sold out and squandered the country's assets are raising their voice against corruption. If you want to characterize and display that period with a single picture, then there should be nothing else in that picture but a nocical box, or, if not the nocical box, the 40 centimeter bodrog cross-section viewer you designed for it, or possibly the tunnels designed for the wilderness. These three pictures would describe very well the corruption issues of governance between 2002 and 2010. Dear Parliament, In 2010, when Fidesz came to government, he immediately, without delay, started to eradicate corruption. We then declared zero tolerance to corruption: we announced the administrative anti-corruption programme, the national anti-corruption programme, we created one of Europe's strictest Btk., we bleached party and campaign funding, we created a new public procurement law, we introduced online cash registers, we created national wealth law, and in the area of income taxes we created measures to whiten the economy, we introduced legislation, we introduced EKÁER, and we established a new system of national security control, we included in the Fundamental Law the responsible management of state assets, and we did this because the left-wing governments wasted the country's public wealth in the previous period. This is why the current government was forced to buy back the national strategically important utilities, which the left-wing has hawked over to foreign multinationals. While, under left-wing governments, public procurement was won by offshore companies, the new law excluded offshore companies from public procurement. We have also made party financing transparent. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, There's been more talk here today about who's talking about what and who's doing what. Now, I think that it is not only a Member of Parliament's job to speak but also to create laws. You guys said no in order. to strengthen the fight against crime, zero tolerance against corruption, accountability, cut-off of the black economy and tighter use of public funds. Why? What could possibly be behind your vote against these measures? Maybe it's not that you're not interested in these things? Isn't it that they have something to hide? I would not like to answer that, but I would like to quote very briefly from your former party presidents, the MSZP, and therefore I am pleased that Attila Mesterházy is in the Chamber at this stage of the debate. Well, their two quotes prove that, yes, they won't vote because they're full of corruption cases. He told Attila Mesterházy in 2013 to the German newspaper Die Welt, and I quote: "The corruption issues of my socialist party members are a huge concern. And Ferenc Gyurcsány also said in 2013 that he left the MSZP because they were stolen in that party at the time. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We also reported them, Orbán Kolompár!]] Thank you very much for your attention, fellow Members. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[21.00]]
u2015-11-23-309	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, will take the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-11-23-310	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! I would like to join Mónika Dunai, as he said that in 2010 the government immediately started a fight against corruption. Well, for your information, this war failed very quickly. I think it was the fastest battle in the history of the world. There is nothing more proof than that we had more accountability commissioners than our accountable politicians, and unfortunately this process has not changed since then. Maybe it's just that the era of the nocical boxes has actually come to an end. This was typical of previous governments. You have introduced a much more professional system where, let's say, the existence of close groups of governments, which are practically secured through persons, is the case for mafia families. For example, since József Ángyán, we know what government formation looks like. When the Prime Minister really decides only the fate of a narrow, defined crew of a few members, who can enter the government, and the others are appointed by a large family close to the government, so that they can then ensure the growth of that interest through legislation and day-to-day information. I would ask the members of the government and the pro-government politicians here not to look down on the Hungarian people, because when we talk about corruption, we may not always think of a specific concept that is in line with the law, because you created the legislation by making very unfair straws are also legal. During your five-year governance, public procurement, tender money or subsidies have become virtually equivalent to corruption, and this is indeed your merit. When we talk about corruption or its elimination, we also need to talk about the crimes that are hidden from the failure to account, or why it was for them, it is important for you that this accountability is not successful. We could talk here about my narrower area, the issue of state economies; of course, they cannot hold socialist-liberal governments accountable for how the state economies have been squandered if you are involved. We all remember well that the 12 largest public economies were privatized in the summer of the first Orbán government, in the summer before the last, in great silence, and played them out to their dear little friends. Now some of these interests do not belong to your moonyard, they have been in a fight with them, there is a kind of gang war going on, but regardless, when these state economies were played over, they were still very close to each other, and as we have heard, in countless cases, they have made a serious contribution to the Fidesz election success, as they have been brought back into the party box with these funds. In the same way, you are unable to eliminate the case of Lake Fertő, where the complete lake reeds of Fertő were played over to a private person during the MSZP-SZDSZ government with a permanent free oozing rights, and even if they promised the locals a grass tree when they came to government, it turned out that this entrepreneur did not finance and support the left-wing campaign in the last elections. But we could also talk about the case of sugar factories, when a committee of inquiry stood up, we were able to draw quite serious conclusions from it, but there was no consequence of this story, nor was there any consequence of the waste of the entire Hungarian food industry. I've had more personal experiences in relation to land applications, since it was closer in time. I saw a number of cases myself when I went to the NFA, asked for the losing and winning contest, and it was, let's say, a word for word. They were lazy at the beginning to write applications for their friends, they simply copied a good one, and then they gave their own friends a lot more points at subjective points. Then, in order not to be able to get to the bottom of the matter, they finally made a regulation amendment, which led the losing proposals to be sent to the post on the day of the proposal's decision, so that we could not even compare them. And we have come to the point that, on the subject of land sales - current topics - the gang war that is going on has practically become the victim of 380,000 hectares of state-owned land. Here, too, it can be seen that a well - prepared strategy is used to try to play greasy snacks for their own circles. I know that there will be many areas of 3-5-10 hectares that will actually be acquired by locally living family farmers, but, as has already been said today, let's not look at each other as idiots, and these farmers will not buy 180 million forints of land. It takes a lot of capital, and you can see the close circles of government that started this. By the way, I think it is a great shame that in 2015 we are now at the point where, in practice, we consider the anti-corruption sample of Romania to be enviable, and we would be happy to have it there. I think that 10-15 years ago, no one would have thought that Romanian would ever be the example. So I hope that someday we will get a meaningful answer and we will also contribute to accountability. If nothing else, it's a Jobbik government. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-311	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group.
u2015-11-23-312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We're talking about Siofok's case here today, and speaking of Siofok's case, I'd like to remind you that the last 25 years have been full of corruption. Who remembers? We remember, but we haven't got a verdict yet, for example, on Sukoro's case, but if we go back to Lake Balaton, it would be nice to raise the case of the SCD campsites. There were socialist governments at the time, but in the county assemblies, which were pleased with the role of the rapporteur in this sale, there were indeed Fidesz general meeting presidents, and it has not been established how almost all the camping on the shore of Lake Balaton was abandoned, from the hundreds of billion-dollar investments promised by this offshore company, nothing has been made. Finally, he got out of this project and suffered a huge loss there too by selling these areas to the county authorities. The most valuable areas on the shore of Lake Balaton. The other day, we had a debate with Mr Mihály Witzmann about problems in Siófok, but he has already said today that he could not prove that he is not heard on the recording, and he is clearly heard, where it is about how his campaign on behalf of the Public Machine will be financed through the Somi landfill project, back in 2013, in the 2014 campaign. So, we're gonna bring you all these specific cases, I could talk about the sale of Club Aliga or Aranyföveny Kft., a lot of real estate transactions on the shore of Lake Balaton, where corruption is suspected, which he wiped out with dozens of prosecutors, saying there was no crime, even though the valuer has proven hundreds of millions of dollars of damage to the state. And in response to that, all you can do is ironclad. We're bringing up dozens of cases, and you're trying to beat us with one case in a totally pathetic and hopeless way. We say that these cases will certainly burn on you, and these cases will cause you to lose your election in 2018. Let's hope so. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-313	Thank you, Congressman. The speaker will be Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-314	Thank you very much. In two minutes, let me offer a thought or two to the attention of the congressmen, ladies. There is a very big difference between what you are talking about and what we are talking about from the opposition. I will take up the 2013 sentence that Congresswoman Mónika Dunai quoted as yes, corruption is a toxic thing, and it is independent of party politics. I think that just because there were scandals, corruption cases during a socialist government, it does not exempt you from investigating corruption cases, and if there is any indication of that, it should be investigated with integrity. It is not an answer to this question when such a debate is taking place in Parliament, that you have been ruling for five years and say that we are knocking out our own corruption suspect cases by reading to the opposition what happened earlier. I understand this from a communication point of view, that this is a good opportunity, but the main reason why we have initiated this debate is because we want Hungary to achieve the best possible ranking in terms of the corruption index. And, you know, there's a big difference between the scandals that occurred in our governments and the scandals that occurred during your government's time, that they've been investigated by our government, and there are decisions that Secretary Retvári has also spoken about, and in your time, they keep covering up these matters. If I were a fidesz, Lajos Simicska, Lőrinc Mészáros, I wouldn't dare speak in Parliament after Garanchi, let alone accuse the opposition of what they did. So I would expect more modesty from the Fidesz MEPs in addition to the background support of these oligarchs, especially as a gas mechanic, please, is among the first 80 richest people in Hungary today, and can even make 6-10 progress every year. This is the career I wish all Hungarian gas mechanics. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-23-315	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[21.10]]
u2015-11-23-316	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Here, our fellow Member tried to explain his own sentences in 2013, and he referred to the courts as to how and how the courts would decide. I would just like to make one request to the five representatives of the Socialist Group present: say a socialist prime minister who says that the Socialist Government is not corrupt. Because Bajnai Gordon said that the country had had enough corruption cases before 2010. Ferenc Gyurcsány said that he left the Socialist Party because they were stealing there, and we shouldn't know where the money came from. [[Attila Mesterházy: Lőrinc Ripper, Simicska!]] Péter Medgyessy said that the SZDSZ and therefore the government are full of corruption cases. [[Attila Mesterházy: Lőrinc Ripper!]] Dear Members of the Socialist Congress present! Tell me a socialist prime minister who says the socialist government is not corrupt. [[Attila Mesterházy: Lőrinc Ripper!]] There's no such thing. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: Lőrinc Ripper... Just because the Fidesz doesn't say it doesn't mean they're not.]]
u2015-11-23-317	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Mr Gábor István Harangozó, Member of the MSZP Group, will be speaking. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-318	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to continue the line of thought that Attila Mesterházy had just begun, whether there is any meaning to this debate today, and whether there is any point in talking about corruption issues here. The thing is, I've gathered some examples myself, and I think I could talk about concrete corruption issues for a long time, but it doesn't make much sense, because we've talked about a lot of things, and I think we've managed to dig up the integrity of politics even further than we've ever done, so I don't want to deal with the list of specific cases, I want to deal with the consequences of some corruption case. The title of this debate today, too, was, I will not be able to quote it literally, but the second part was about the consequences for corrupt politicians, and we should also discuss something here. You have talked about the fact that if corruption was found somewhere in the previous period, there were bodies that looked into it and appropriate judgments have been made in this case. But as I referred to in a two-minute speech, today we see something quite different. There is still a great deal of corruption here today, there is a big difference from the previous cases that there is no procedure in these cases without exception. You are not only burying these cases, but there has been a phenomenon recently, a accompanying phenomenon that I must talk about here, within the framework of Parliament, especially when it comes to corruption. I'd like to go back to the Siofok case again. It is not enough that Siófok has seen the light of day, without exception, on the recordings, on which the actors have clearly admitted that they have spoken, that these discussions have taken place, are serious public procurement abuses, illicit party support and other crimes in which, without exception, it is certain that at least an investigation would take place in all European countries and that someone should be held accountable for how this could have happened. Either the characters should be held accountable for why they're talking nonsense or because what they're talking about is factual. In this case, if one listens to these recordings or reads the transcripts of them, it can be seen that they are not talking nonsense, but factual claims, because what they are talking about is what has happened. However, it will remain unanswered, since the prosecution is not investigating the cases, but investigating them, with great force as to who made the recording and how this recording came to light. This in itself is quite a problem, but in recent weeks, my fellow Members, it is such a scandal that I did not think that this could happen again in Hungary after the 1950s. After all, an article was published on Facebook in which a citizen of Siófok entered the library to find out if he found any abuses in the proposals and decisions he had made earlier, suggesting that the former Fidesz leadership, which was famous for being considered corrupt by everyone in the city, was replaced by the mayor, whether he found any basis for these rumors. And this citizen published a Facebook entry describing in fact what he found, describing that the municipality - he also named the mayor - announced an application on April 2, 2014, in which the Martyrs' Way offered 66 square meters of apartment for sale on property 5-7. And in this story, the very interesting thing is that this property is located on the corner of the disco row, built together with the garden theatre. After all, this property was sold to the municipality for HUF 5 million to an entrepreneur who everyone in the city knows is a fidesz entrepreneur, all of his businesses are connected to Fidesz in some way, and it is also known that he is in a very good relationship with the mayor. But the author of the article doesn't say that, but it says that this entrepreneur named by his name took this property for 5 million forints, or 75 forints. per square metre; which is a rather suspicious story, since in this area the price is 500,000 forints and not 75 forints (sic!) the average price. It makes absolute factual findings on this, also describes who won, in addition to the fact that this property was sold without the State of ownership giving up its right to pre-emption and concludes that there is no evidence of any real estate valuation in the notice or in the contract. Do you know what happened after that? After this article was published, 42 citizens of Siófok were outraged, this writing was found interesting and shared on their own Facebook profile. Then all 42 people, not all 42 people, just twenty-something, because they were even selected, were subpoenaed by the D.A.'s office as suspects, where a public prosecutor's hearing was prosecuted in the case of a failed mayor. This is an article published in January, and the mayor failed in October. In a failed mayor's corruption case, an article has been published, and citizens sharing this on their Facebook page are prosecuted by the prosecution in public prosecution where they are being held and questioned as suspects. Simple citizens share a fact-finding article without any qualification on their own Facebook profile and subpoena these people in a public-prosecution investigation in a case where a public figure has decided on public property and otherwise is no longer a public figure, so they could not be subpoenaed and imprisoned in public proceedings. What's this if it's not a bullshit bullying case? ! And it's not enough that they were summoned to the police station first to get a phone call, they didn't tell me what kind of business they were looking for, they just called to come in, because I'd like to hear them. Then when they went in, they were told that their suspects were being prosecuted and were going to be held prisoner. Then, when they realized that this was not good, they were then called in again and the reasons were as follows:. Further means of proof, search, further interviews of suspects, and the necessary measures were required to prolong the time limit for the investigation to be carried out. So it's not enough that they scared these people because they dared to share this article on their Facebook page, that they're being kidnapped, they're taking pictures, they're holding a sign in their hands, they're even getting a justification that they can even expect a search warrant. [[21.20]] When the defense attorney asked me if there was gonna be a search warrant, the investigating officer couldn't give me a reassuring answer. The case also turns out that the Siófok District Attorney's office is not investigating the case because of bias, but the Fonyód Chief Prosecutor, the Fonyód Chief Prosecutor, who, by the way, has been a colleague of the wife of the mayor for years, since she was a judge in Fonyód. So, it's not just from the corruption cases we've mentioned so far that this is a typical mafia state, but from the way you run this state, from these intimidation tools that you're telling us that if anyone dares to raise their word or disclose anything, it's simply unacceptable, it's shame and shame! And not only does it have no consequence that one of you is exposed to being corrupt, but you are abusing the fact that you are prosecuting the person who is bringing this corruption to light, which, my fellow Members, is a disgrace. So if there should be a lesson to this debate today, it is that we should move past these corruption cases. The proposals that the Socialist Party has repeatedly put forward, how to make tender procedures more transparent, how to tighten conflict of interest rules, how to improve accountability, for example, how to tighten asset declaration requirements, should be adopted. [[István Szilárd Németh: Simon, Simon! Zoltán Grimlock: Rogán, Kosa!]] I also agree that we should look at the wealth growth of Members, politicians and even the wealth growth of family members. Because if that were the case, honourable fellow Members, you would not be able to refer to it when Members are exposed to it. [[Zoltán Grimson: Simon has been brought in, Rogán has not been taken anywhere!]] To build houses with unexplained amounts, to buy luxury cars, to buy these houses, real estate or even large-value cars with family cooperation or friendly loans, since it could be examined in particular in the family whether this is covered or not. Until there is courage to do so, we will always talk about such matters in Hungary. Therefore, I also agree that Hungarian politics must change and learn lessons. This outrage, which could be heard back and forth, cannot continue. I'm sure there were mistakes in the past, and I'm sure the way the state's working now is also a mafia-like operation, much worse than it's ever been. This must not continue. These public life measures and proposals must be adopted to you, honourable members of the government, because you have the majority, you must vote and close the possibility of corruption. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-11-23-319	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-23-320	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, This is already the second opposition speech, which begins with the fact that they no longer understand why this debate day was initiated. When they meet here with their own corruption cases, with their own inexplicable affairs, and each party should tell us exactly what its position on these issues is, and they are showing a kind of mirror to opposition representatives, they suddenly realize that they should not have even started this debate day, and they are also surprised about this current course. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We didn't say that!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have initiated this debate, so do not be surprised if the reality comes to light and it is painful for you. Mr Bellman has listed several amendments to the law as to how much we should do. But, honourable Member, you have been in government three times in Hungary! Twice the majority, once the two-thirds majority. Now you tell me what you should have done to fight corruption. [[Gábor István Bellozó: But now you are on the government! Why don't you guys do it?]] This government has listed a very long list of how many laws have been amended, how we have protected public finances in the National Property Act. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Yet they steal it!]] how we tightened the criminal code, how we gave extra support to the courts, how we gave extra support to the prosecution, so that this half-hundred anti-corruption, corruption investigation team would be set up, which is not only in Budapest, but also in rural cities. [[Zoltán Grimlock: What are you looking at?]] how, even in control subcommittees, we have ensured the investigation of corruption cases by the pro-government majority. [[Zoltán Gőgös: What pro-government majority?]] And it could also be described how many fundamental and half laws we have put the protection of public money in, or even raised it to a fundamental level, so that a company with an opaque background does not have access to public funds. And in the last six months, you can also find a legislative amendment that seeks to improve the issue of circumferential debt, although this is not related to corruption. We've been able to list a lot of legislative amendments, and you're just telling us what the socialist governments missed. If you had done so then, you might not have to face the predictions of László Kovács that visionize the fall of the MSZP from Parliament. [[Zoltán Grimlock: We'll make a living, but what are you doing? A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-321	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy, Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-23-322	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The biggest problem with the MSZP is that when it was a majority of Parliament, it did not make any laws, and when it is in a minority, it tries to prevent the adoption of any law that serves transparency. Allow me to draw your attention to two things regarding the use of EU funds, partly responding to Jobbik's question. Indeed, until 2012, there has been a lot of talk about the importance of taking action against offshore companies in any public use. The Fundamental Law, which entered into force in 2012, provides that the offshore company in Hungary cannot receive any money, which is public money, be it the European Union resource or support the domestic budget. On 12 August 2013, the Prime Minister's Office took over the supervision of the National Development Agency. It was then that Minister Lazarus decided to order a comprehensive investigation into all European Union projects that have been supported since 2007. The end of this investigation was that in 306 projects, it was established that companies with an opaque ownership background had access to such funds; in 195 projects - we are talking about calls before 2012 - the moral number is in the hands of the government, but there is no legal room for manoeuvre, but 111 cases of irregularities have been initiated, of which 81 have been recovered. So far, the state has been able to recover HUF 2 billion, but there are another ten billion under recovery, and in 49 decisions, the companies concerned have submitted a final appeal. So I think that the system that now allows the company to declare not only that it complies with all the laws, but also that it needs to demonstrate in detail which sections it performs, points in a direction that is definitely taking steps towards the proper use of public funds. I'll even go back to public procurement with one sentence. The new public procurement law introduces in Hungary, for the first time in the 28 Member States of the European Union, the expectations that the range of procurement procedures where a three-offer procedure can be applied will be reduced where the procurement procedures are essentially dependent on the intention of the contracting authority to invite firms. Anyone who has an obligation to spend public funds to use public procurement has the opportunity and duty to publish this on the public procurement committee's website and to ask for a substantial offer from all tenderers who make themselves available. The rules on conflicts of interest are expanding, and it is very important that the range of public-related data is expanding, thanks to which I think that the current government is taking a step in a positive direction, not only in action, but also in public opinion. Congressman, when you were in the government, you did nothing for this, and all such proposals in the opposition were voted down. I think that says everything about the MSZP. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-323	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-23-324	Thank you for the floor. I have learned from Mr Bellozó's speech that he is very fond of the fate of the property, the responsible real estate management. We wanted you to do the same with care when Ferenc Juhász and his State Secretary illegally acquired an apartment [[Zoltán Grimlock: Sit down! Because how did the Budai get it?]] exhausting the concept of unfaithful treatment. It should have been done with the same care when Dezső Believing asked for HUF 5 million for the rental of a business space, according to the charge. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Are you saying that?]] The same care should have been taken when Terézváros real estate was sold below prices. It should have been just as loud when someone made four times the money to pass on the Moscow commercial branch, and your party could have been louder because you, I think, were young at the time, but your party could have been louder when they played the Csilbert resort for 15 million forints. [[István Gábor Bellozó: The Fidesz-székeházat!]] [[21.30]] You mentioned that we need to move past these cases. I disagree, the government disagrees. Until we know all the details of these cases, the government must be active, and you must help us to get a clearer picture. The electorate is right to expect this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-325	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, A statement will be made by Mr President Novak, Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-11-23-326	Dear Parliament, We followed the debate from our box with András Horváth, the former tax authority colleague, who had the civil courage to name the fact that with the support of government circles, assisted by the NAV, there are thousands of billions of HUF tax frauds in Hungary. We have come to the conclusion, as we have been watching the debate here, that the current governing parties in Hungary, like Romania, have not put any serious leaders of previous governments behind bars because they are afraid to set a precedent, and they are afraid that after another change of government, it will be easier to be accounted for either by a prosecutor or by themselves. However, let me reassure you not to worry about this, and do not hesitate to have the politicians of the MSZP who are no longer on the government accounted for, because if Jobbik is on the government, then we will not spare or even double the punishment for the political criminals. Before I present at least 12 of my favourite points in our anti-political crime package in headlines, since so many anecdotes have already been said here in relation to various government corruptions, two cases, in short: let me mention a case study, which is a good indication of how the accountability of both sides has been left behind. After all, the media is regularly loud about it, the pro-government media, the good news TV, in particular, the state, the good news TV, if, for example, the various former leaders of the MSZP were convicted at first or second instance, despite the fact that they were eventually finally finally exonerated in many cases, in most cases after all. For example, one of the biggest politicians of the MSZP, the former mayor of New Buda, Gyula Molnár, who was sentenced to second degree imprisonment for misdemeanor abuse, made the media loud at that time, and then talked less about the fact that he was exonerated at a third degree. But who absolved him? Former member of the Constitutional Tribunal of the MSZP, now a judge. Well, what kind of accountability does the D.A. leave without a word such a clearly biased judgment? However, I turned to Péter Polt afterwards, in vain to Tünde Szájer József Handó, head of the National Court of Justice, that in such a clear case, when the former constitutional candidate of the MSZP now dismissed Gyula Molnár, who was sentenced to imprisonment in the second degree, as a criminal judge. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] There's nothing you can do, because Mrs. József Szájer said Tünde Hando is okay. Is this accountability? We should not be surprised that, of course, serious leaders of the MSZP did not follow János Zuschlag to prison. Of course, there were other reasons for this, as he said, for example, the issue of immunity, which protects not only from condemnation, but also from being able to investigate in the case of a politician. However, I promised you two cases, of course there are plenty on the other side, and let me get it from here, if you've been spreading public money with Simicska's wheelbarrow and Nyerges tow, then let me give you the example that I'd hope you'd at least guarantee accountability this time. In the case of Lajos Simicska's corporate empire, however, we do not see any meaningful investigation. For example, I filed a complaint when, in a public procurement procedure without publication of a notice, Lajos Simicska's advertising company, one of his interests, was able to conduct a government propaganda on billboards, including from public money, for eight times the market price. The D.A.'s office refused to file a complaint, and in fact, as a result of your amendment of the law a few years ago, we can no longer appeal to a refusal of a prosecutor's decision. So here we are, and unfortunately, despite the deterioration of their relationship, as they were still common dogs, they still refuse to be accounted for. Although it is clear why else would Lajos Simicska be excluded from public procurement now. What's changed? Aren't your companies so good now? It is quite obvious that it is only the deterioration of political relations that lies behind clear statistics, the failure of their applications, but we cannot actually expect accountability. And then, in the end, only in the headlines are our anti-politician agendas, of which Gábor Vona also spoke more in his keynote speech. Unfortunately, that was not what the debate was about, these legislative proposals, although that is our primary task as legislators. It's not the mud throwing you've been doing here, trying to smack the Béla Kovács case without any evidence, it's the making of laws that reduce political crime regardless of party affiliation. And it should still be like this, although we have made great success in a legalized, most common form of political crime, in the field of political job accumulation, but we still need a lot of action. Let's just say we're thinking of the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, who, let alone second, third, fourth and fifth positions, is chairman of the Board of Directors in four state companies. So here is our fight against job accumulation, we have the abolition of immunity, the abolition of the statute of limitations on economic crimes committed by politicians, the accountability of communist leaders, because even so it is indebted, let alone the last eight years that have been mentioned so much, although now we will have to talk more about their past eight years. We'll talk about that. In any case, there is still the accountability and banning of Communist leaders from public life, which could also be reduced, for example, the KISZ KB Secretary Ferenc Gyurcsány could not be, let us say, a Member of Parliament, let alone a Prime Minister, if there had been a change of regime. And we could mention the encryption, which is not only about the past of state security, but also about the past system, the dogs of the last 25 years. They didn't respond to these, and only Béla Kovács, like everything else, was the answer. There is also the obligation to declare any other nationality of Members. Because if it turns out, let's say, earlier on, that Gábor Simon has the nationality of an African banana republic, then it's clear that he's built an escape route. Why, if it's not because he has something to hide? That's why we want to make them public. However, we would also like to publish the declaration of property of Members' relatives, which is currently kept in the Parliament's safe, except for the politicians of Jobbik, because we published the property statements of all our relatives and children on Jobbik's website. We would also like to have a regular increase in wealth and wealth analysis, unfortunately this has remained without a more serious echo, unless we consider the great words of the MSZP from the opposition to be an echo. They could have done it on the government, so they didn't think it was necessary. And finally, if we get to the point where we can finally punish Members for breaking the encryptions, abolishing immunity and the like, we want double punishment and creating an institution for total confiscation. This is why, among other things, we are collecting signatures on the Vote.Brobik.hu website and across the country on our signature collection stands, because we consider government corruption to be a very big problem. That is why we would like to mention this package of programmes, perhaps only the institution of recallability, if they were to be accepted. After all, Jobbik has a comprehensive programme to combat political crime, with which we hope we do not have to wait for Jobbik to get on the government, and one or two of these, as well as the reduction of the political stockpiling, will be accepted by the Parliament, as opposed to opposition proposals. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-327	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-23-328	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Congressman Novak here is ex XI. He brought up the case of a district socialist mayor. Honourable Congressman, That criminal case started because Fidesz-KDNP politicians filed a criminal report. If they hadn't filed a report, the criminal case wouldn't have started. There was Jobbik in the district, Jobbik didn't press charges, so Jobbik's non-existent report didn't allow him to prosecute, only Fidesz-KDNP did what a politician had to do in the district. We regret that Jobbik has failed to do so, in other cases he cries out a crime when there is no real crime, but when there is a real crime, he fails to press charges, but Fidesz-KDNP has done so where appropriate. [[Mr. Novak intervenes.]] As far as the Simicska posters are concerned, I think in the Tapolca campaign, if you turn around and consult with one of your fellow Members, you may have more information about who is campaigning and how. [[Foreman Novak: Market price...]] And as for the property declaration of the relatives, I did not see Jobbik release the property declaration of Béla Kovács's relatives. When that happens, your demands are credible. As long as they demand it, but they do not respect it themselves, and for everyone, it seems that they would consider it mandatory in the pro-government ranks, except in the case of Béla Kovács, this, Member, is an uncredited demand from Jobbik. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of government parties. Foreman Novák: On Jobbik's website all MPs are present.]]
u2015-11-23-329	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Speech to be delivered by Secretary of State Tamás Vargha, Ministry of Defence. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[21.40]]
u2015-11-23-330	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In his speech, Mr President Novák mentioned the Minister of State for Public Administration of the Ministry of Defence and the 100% state-owned company of the Ministry of Defence. [[Zoltán Haughty interrupts.]] In full compliance with the legislation, the Administrative Secretary of State holds the Board of Directors, and this is the company, a 100% state-owned company, which receives orders in accordance with the Defence Procurement Government decree and the Government's decision, and respects the European Union's procurement standards to the fullest extent. In addition, I would like to tell the Honourable Parliament that, based on the 2015 study of Transparency International on the transparency and publication practices of Hungarian state-owned companies, this study raised HM EI Zrt., owned by the Ministry of Defence, to the top of the corporate ranking by 100 points on the basis of the statutory index. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. First of Novak: He has five full-time jobs!]]
u2015-11-23-331	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-332	Mr President, Dear House, With regard to corruption, we would also like to draw attention to the amazing phenomenon that almost every country is known as pro-government or even former socialist mayors known as the 20 percent János, the 30 percent Béla - and the first names can be replaced - in the area [[Dr. Bitay Márton Örs: Béla, yes, good!]] And we have to say that a pathetic system of redistributives has developed in Hungary, affecting the wild economy, which, by the way, is not seen in local authorities with better management. We must say that this includes not only public procurement, but almost all major construction projects, which is why Jobbik recommends to the government - not for the first time - that a building authority should be set up for a German sample, where appropriate, to automatically examine the priority investments, but that, if suppliers are suspected of not being paid, they can stop the project by means of public authorities, if appropriate. Obviously, our aim is not to stop any construction project in Hungary, but the threatening force of this sanction in other national economies was enough not to dare do what we say, in the case of the Megyeri Bridge, that Hungarian suppliers should not be paid, that Hungarian contractors should be bankrupted. We would therefore like to prevent this, accompanied by two very sensible steps. One would be that market prices, acceptable market prices, should be set at a limit of one to one for similar investments and, where appropriate, investments in public funds. We do not want to set specific prices, but we do want to set limits from the point of view of market processes, so that the six-to-eight-ten-fold over-prices in this system will be eliminated, which will strangle and paralyze the Hungarian economy. And - I would like to emphasise once again - in addition to the fact that in some cases the invitation to tender has to be eliminated, we would like to ensure that Hungarian added value is as high as possible than the priority investments. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and, as many cases as possible, the automatic tests which, in this case, must put Hungarians in a position and abolish this corruption system in Hungary. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-333	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Nándor Csepreghy, Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-23-334	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Congressman, A very important change in construction works, the trend of which has already appeared in the previous period, so that price is not the only aspect determining what kind of business can participate in construction work with public money, and not only that. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Because the Fidesz are expensive, that's why!]] Because, if we look at the public procurement practice of the last few years, it was more than 50 percent large multinational companies that took away the large European Union projects and the domestic constructions in Hungary. I understand that for the MSZP, the LMP, an alien posture is that if there is a government that is trying to represent Hungarian entrepreneurial interests. The new Public Procurement Act, the amendment of which is before the Parliament, is about, among other things, not only the price being the only aspect, but also putting into the public procurement practice conditions that allow smaller or medium-sized enterprises to be involved in work as general contractors, since we believe that in all 19 counties there are local players who are able to make public investments, perhaps in nominal terms, a little more expensive than a multinational company, but also, taking into account the long-term maintenance costs, create local jobs and support companies that operate in Hungary, tax them in Hungary [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right!]] and invest in Hungary. I believe that there are some issues in this regard that are worth taking up conflicts and looking at the intentions behind a European Union procedure, in which cases the European Commission really defends European competition rules and in which cases it protects various international firms and their ownership. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-335	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mr Zoltán Gőgös, MSZP Group.
u2015-11-23-336	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to ask Secretary of State Csepreghy why, if we have done nothing, the conflict of interest rules that excluded the companies of state leaders involved in the criticism and decisions of the European Union's proposals have been abolished. Can you tell me why it was erased? In our time, neither the administrator nor the decision-maker could have had a company that did not seek normative support. Why was that canceled, Mr. Secretary? So that, say, your boss will sign the grant for you in Gorzsa? Is that it? Or why was it erased? Bring him back! You're the majority, we're gonna vote for you. That's how it worked in our time. No one had the right to participate in applications, who had a decision-making situation, not even a level of administration, or even family members. Take this out and make accusations about what you're talking about first. This was erased by you, and obviously because you had an interest in abolishing it. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] The other is that I would like to say to Mr Dömötör, State Secretary, that what he said is in the record, you said that Dezső Believing asked for money. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: That's not what he said.]] You have to prove that. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: That's not what you said!]] That's what he said. Don't tell me. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: The fact that you wrote this doesn't mean he said that.]] He asked for money for a property... 5 million for a property... [[Dr. Rétvári Bende: The D.A.'s office said that!]] So you have to take the consequences for your statement, you have to take it. [[István Szilárd Németh: You are threatening me. Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] No one can accuse you of being unpunished! [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] By the way, I would also like to say to Congressman Novák that you are protected by immunity, even though you say you will give up on it, you can't give up on it, because you should also take responsibility for the same statement against Gyula. [[Dr. Bitay Márton Örs: How's Gyula? Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] You shouldn't be doing this, my dear friends, dear ladies and gentlemen, so, Mr. Secretary of State, we're gonna have a record of it, clear and obvious, so you're gonna have to answer. [[The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-11-23-337	Thank you, Congressman. [[György Balla to Zoltán Gőgös: All you can do is threaten me! Zoltán Pride: I'm not threatening you!]] Dear Parliament, We will continue with the speeches. Mr Ander Balázs, Mr Jobbik Group, will take the floor. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-338	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On July 24th, a bomb went off in Baranya, no secret, it's about Zsolt Tiffán's Facebook entry. Behind the veritable sentences Jobbik suspected serious crimes, which is why my excellent colleague György Szilágyi has made his complaint, which - no wonder - the Metropolitan Public Prosecutor's Office has turned down nicely. Repetition is the mother of knowledge, which is why I would like to read these lines what Zsolt Tiffán wrote [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] and I would very much ask my fellow members of the Government to answer the questions that arise here in the context of at least one such political debate day, explain this very shameful certificate. "I will not tolerate," writes Zsolt Tiffán, "that I and my companions, who have put up with our hearts for the success of the Ancient-Drava program, will be humiliated every day!" Among other things, political actors who are public - excuse me, Mr. President. - they don't know anything but whoring, and they haven't put anything on the table yet. The Ormans' table. Punished scribblers are asking me these stupid and mean questions every day. And if there is an order for these stinking media - unfortunately, many times from a pro-government side - they jump immediately and spread a lot of lies about us. By the way, we know who shares the brains of the county. We're talking about two people in total... Well, they're not in the same party, but they're the ones who split the money... If they have to, they'll come after their own, just so others can't do anything. Viktor! Don't you see? They're mobsters! Gentlemen, who are we talking about? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes. Intercoms in the pro-government benches.]] It's not about Béla Kovács, is it? [[Interjection: Who is Tiffan talking about?]] Who's Tiffan talking about? That's what we want to know. [[Dr. Márton Bitay: We don't know! Zoltán Pride: Who are you talking about? You obviously know!]] Another very important area is that if the government at all wants to avoid the appearance of corruption, it should be accepted as an axiom that public transport, including railway and related activities, is a public service, not the government's favorite milk cows of large capital close by. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right!]] What vassals with good relationships can really break up is the mostly savvyly legitimized, but still brazenly public project overpriced, and the outsourcing of certain, risk-free activities. [[21.50]] I'd like to make a few comments on this one on a current case. The government refers a great deal to the early, hardworking young people, but if they are serious about this and are not meant to be just habony powder, then perhaps it would be appropriate for them to hear the protests of trade unions about rail outsourcing in the air. The Railway Union does not support any outsourcing. As they put it, keep your hands off the railway guards and don't give the railroad cleaners to the black economy. They have every right to be outraged by the outsourcing plans. External, I don't suppose, by any chance, friendly entrepreneurs will be handing over these well-baked activities of HUF 18 billion plus VAT in connection with railway guards. The MÁV Installation Operator and Vasútőr Kft. Because of the machinations around it, over 500 workers and their families look uncertainly into the future. They're not the meat pots. As the exploited wage slave of many of his subcontractors, they want to continue working within the railroad, even if this does not please the money-hungry sharks who are already rubbing their hands and their MÁV governors and lobbyists. Jobbik strongly condemns the fact that, according to the surviving fidesz practice of Balliberal times, money from the railroad is being pumped back into private pockets. It is a rhetorical question why the financial pumps which enrich friends, but which cause further losses to the state and thus to the Hungarian people who pay taxes, are not closed. A common anomaly in both the cleaning and security sectors is the presence of full-time sub-contracting phantoms with more than a hundred fallen companies, the chaotic employment system, the unpunished rampage of social workers who have good political relations, and the total vulnerability of workers. The question of why they want to push new families into such circumstances is 18 billion HUF, why are they risking the migration of professionals who are familiar with the operation mechanism of the railway plant, providing personal property protection services, and taking over their place by eviscerated, tired, underpaid, unmotivated and therefore 80 percent of security guards who produce fluctuations every year. Of course, this is also true of MÁV's cleaners. If someone is working in the cleaning sector, then they must know what an empty line is when they promise to enforce employment rules with subcontractors. Hiding behind the shields of influential people, he sees a huge and secure amount of money for narrow clique years, while the extra profit in the form of a well-deserved salary increase could remain in the hands of the employees or the state-owned company, where there are plenty of areas for development with a lack of resources. The public money flows in enormous size, no wonder the Railway Union also called the current outsourcing process outrageous, manipulative and repulsive. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-339	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Péter Banai Benő. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-11-23-340	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me very briefly to respond, first of all, to the suggestion of Mr Ander Balázs, that if so much money is stolen from the railway, then how is it possible that in recent years the railway has stabilised its operation, and indeed there is a company, a state company, that has made a profit. These are the facts, Congressman. Let's look at the management of all the MÁV companies. As to the question of the conflict of interest raised by Mr Zoltán Gőgös: allow me to recall, for the sake of textual loyalty, the Public Finance Act 50. §2 of the Act, which states that a member of the Government, a State Secretary, a State Secretary for Administration, an Deputy State Secretary, a President of the County Assembly, a Mayor, mayor, a senior official of the Regional Development Agency and a close relative of those persons, may not receive any budgetary support, who has taken the decision or who has taken part in the decision to prepare a decision on the grant. I would therefore like to make it clear that the legislation defines budgetary support, including domestic and EU funds, and that it is not possible to provide support to close relatives under the legislation. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Then how did Lazarus receive support? Or is it L. Simon?]] Congressman, you have claimed that in the current system, legislation contains a hole in potential support. And I am asking you, Congressman, to check the relevant provisions of the Public Finance Act. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz. Zoltán Pride: Then it's even worse because you don't follow the law.]]
u2015-11-23-341	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the opportunity to press a button, and I will give you the floor without further ado. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre for a two-minute speech.
u2015-11-23-342	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Jobbik has submitted several legislative proposals that could prevent corruption in recent years, but they have not been supported in a row. This is what my fellow Member, Mr President, has already talked about. I would like to draw attention to a few things. Here is the evacuation of parliamentary committees of inquiry. It was one of the most important institutions. When the police and the D.A.'s office failed, a parliamentary committee of inquiry could be set up. For example, the case of oil bleating and many other cases that caused quite a political storm. This is also a very important thing; the committees of inquiry should not have been emptied. In the 2010-2014 cycle, perhaps the only legislation proposed by the MSZP, and you immediately accepted without limitation that if a criminal offence is suspected, an offence or other official matter, an investigation committee could not be set up. So in any case, which is a serious matter, which is a corruption case, a committee of inquiry can no longer stand up in the future. You're the ones who stopped this. This is also a clear cover-up of corruption. My fellow Member Staudt and I have tabled a motion for representation, a bill, which would take out a business secret, so that when it comes to public property, it is about state money, it is about municipal money, it is not possible to refer to the business secret so that they cannot keep the contracts secret. You didn't vote for that either. Then there's the role of the D.A. You have removed the right to complain, you have taken away the right to complain. You say why you don't press charges, so you are Members of Parliament, make a complaint. Yes, but this will be lifted immediately in the first instance, and since we are not the victims, we cannot exercise the right to complain, because this has also been abolished, just to cover up corruption. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-343	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The speaker will be Mr Attila Mesterházy, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-344	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps less has been said in today's debate about what kind of solution could be used to combat corruption effectively. In the previous period, we submitted a bill that was used to sort out campaign and party funding. By the way, this proposal was in line with the campaign and party financing rules prepared and proposed by Transparency International and Freedom House Europe. Fidesz did not support this at the time as a two-thirds law, although this could have done much for transparency, thus improving the assessment of both campaign and party funding in Hungary. Our other proposal, which was also not supported, was the creation of an anti-corruption agency with broad powers and a system of protection of witness protection. This would also have served to help people to make announcements, because corruption is an issue where no one but the common good and society is interested in finding out, and in many cases the whistleblowers are afraid to report because they are afraid to put themselves in an awkward position. Therefore, we have proposed that we need not another inter-terrorist committee, but, in addition to TEK, it would be more worthwhile to strengthen anti-corruption efforts, which, of course, would have meant powers that would have combined databases that would have helped the cooperation of both the IPEH and the D.A. and the various police bodies. And we also had a third proposal on transparency in public procurement, the point of which would have been that greater transparency, greater publicity, would certainly bring more clarity. I think that, as a conclusion or as a result of such a long debate day, Parliament's parties, regardless of their political affiliation, should certainly achieve what can be formulated as an action plan for the next period, so that legislation can be made more effective, and the work of the exploratory authorities should be made more efficient by means of additional resources, structural changes, legislative changes, which could increase the effectiveness of reconnaissance. [[22.00]] After that, if reconnaissance is successful, then justice can act, and then it can really be fought effectively against this phenomenon. After all, this phenomenon is not just about politics. Here in today's debate, as far as I have heard, everyone has mentioned political affairs and political scandals, and perhaps there has been less talk of corruption not related to politics, and this also exists, not only in Hungary, but in almost every country in the world. Corruption is therefore a more general phenomenon than linking it to governments or political parties. That is why it is worth treating this as a comprehensive issue. This is why not only in order to create the credibility of politics, but not only because it could save resources, save money for the Hungarian budget and thus for the taxpayers, but it would also be possible to combat corruption in the economy and elsewhere in the country. And perhaps this could also encourage fair market behaviour, real competition. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] For my part, I would like to see such a debate day, other than throwing mud at each other's necks, at least so much good that all parliamentary parties and the government themselves are thinking about where else to do in order to improve the so-called corruption index for Hungary and get a better ranking every year in Hungary. Even if we didn't jump to Scandinavian standards, we could still achieve better results than the average of the European Union. If there was such an effect on this day of debate, it would make sense to argue. If everything remains the same, and all we have achieved is that the old, previous, different communication patterns have been told by everyone, and we will sit down and go home contentedly, then today's debate has been unnecessary. I hope that the first wish will have some kind of conception, and it will succeed, even in small steps, but moving towards what is about Hungary being free of corruption. After all, all political parties, politicians and all economic operators should have the theoretical interest of achieving this non-corruption Hungary. I wish us good luck with this, and I hope that in the coming weeks and months we will see initiatives that will bring us closer to this. I can agree, on behalf of my own faction, that we will support all the measures that serve this purpose, as we have already supported with our aforementioned initiatives in the last six to eight years. Thank you very much for your attention. [[György Balla: Online cash registers? A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-11-23-345	Thank you very much. Good evening. Secretary Bence Rétvári, please.
u2015-11-23-346	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr Mesterházy spoke formally to the governing parties, the pro-government representatives, but I felt from his words that he did not really address any of them to the governing parties. After all, what he said about what the purpose of this day of debate might be, as if he had addressed it to Mr Tobias, the voice and tone in his expo or in the lead speaker's round. It's not so much for the ruling parties, it looks like it's within the MSZP. Of course, Mr. Tobias was talking about the relationship between Ferenc Wekler's lands and the M6 trail, and now he's talking about corruption and accusing the ruling parties. That's obviously a big change. As regards the issue of the anti-corruption office, you did not argue with us there either, honourable Member, but with President László Sólyom, because, if I remember correctly, the Hungarian Socialist Party had such a proposal in its own time. He came up with this, there were great debates within the Socialist Party, and although a law was passed, it was returned by the President of the Republic, and the office that was supposed to be organized under László Majtényi was never established so that such an anti-corruption excavation headquarters could be set up. It does not appear that within the MSZP there was such support that they went through the legislative process. This did not fail during the Fidesz-KDNP period, it failed in a socialist period to create this. Of course, they did not start setting up this office in the first years of their government, but when they saw that socialist governance was about to end. So these two, I feel, weren't even meant for government parties. I would like to highlight, however, what Mr President has indicated, or referred to, that, with the last four years, an innovation has been achieved, which has been assessed as positive and progress by all the organisations you have quoted. This is the introduction of the integrity management system, the appointment of integrity officers, which has already been discussed today, which is indeed a European way, a proven way to make the public administration system resistant to corruption. This is a result that has been recognised by all international organisations and needs to be further strengthened. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-11-23-347	Thank you very much. It's time for Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-348	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Here, because of the ember debate, I was pleased to hear about health corruption. My colleague, Gabriella Selmeczi, is HospInvest Zrt. He called it a highly socialist company, didn't he? This company was contracted by MSZP-led municipalities, including hospitals in Eger, 60 and Gyöngyös. At the same time, he did not continue his thinking, as this company also has a subsidiary, a partner, which takes over institutions from Fidesz-led municipalities. The roads of Gábor Kollányi and József Kern, the founder of HospInveste, separated in 2006, the latter created Medisyst Kft., which took control of hospitals in Körmenden, Tapolca and Mezőtúr. In all three settlements, Fidesz municipal representatives voted in favour. Public funds were embezzled by these two companies, HospInvest and MediSyst Kft. In 2010, they ceased operating, there is legal proceedings - and a court decision was taken within five years? No! That's because it's all connected. And he hasn't gone any further, he hasn't gone back any further. One of the first hospital-privatization experiments is linked to Fidesz. At that time, the municipality of Szeged led by Mayor László Bartha Fideszes decided at the beginning of 2000 to tender for the operation of the city clinic, hospital and children's hospital. Among the owners of the selected company was Gabriella Selmeczi's former Fidesz State Secretary. The then Minister of Health of István Mikola called off this entire privatisation at the end of August 2001. He justified that there was no need to take a decision on this in the crossfire of artificially aroused political emotions. Ladies and gentlemen, Many of these problems could still be raised in health care. Now I'm going to tell you something concrete from my constituency, which isn't that old, so we don't have to go back until 2000-2010. This was heard on 2 November 2015 by László Császár, president of Fidesz Tapolca's organization. I say, I quote it literally, it can be found on the Internet:. The promise of a bicycle route between Tapolca and Balaton would be hundreds of millions or even half a billion forints of investment, which is very difficult to obtain without a hard government lobby. Of course, without the support of the local Fidesz, it is difficult to obtain such a source. It was the same in the previous period. I was as much of a opposition representative as I was a city leader as I could enjoy with government support. I've been able to experience both. I have live experience of how the system works in support and other matters. Without a government lobby or support, this doesn't work. So I can tell you, anyone who says the opposite isn't telling the truth, so he's lying. Now I ask you, he lied, the local Fidesz president or you. You claim to be Christian Democrats, you claim to be Christian people, and even from the Scriptures, if you quote one commandment, it is the 7th commandment that says not to steal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-349	Thank you. We're about to make a two-minute comment. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP!
u2015-11-23-350	Thank you very much. Just because my Fidesz fellow Member spoke to me about online cash registers, it really reminded me of what György Balla was talking about. The online cash register is a tool to combat tax fraud. It's true that there was corruption, and you're right about that, because those who sold that machine were fidest companies, and there was a problem with it, because only friends could have taken this big business. So it is a fact and a fact that there was corruption, just not the way you wanted it to be. [[22.10]] I'd like to tell Mr. Secretary of State of Retvár that you know that your comment made me think of a joke. [[György Balla: You will be an excellent president again!]] This is a joke I wouldn't want to tell in the walls of this House, because Mr. President should turn it down, but it's about a fighting dog, when a lady wants to buy a watchdog for herself, and then they give her a little dog like that in the dealership, and they say that it's the real fighting dog, you just have to say a key word for it, and what we say is that if we say, "the fighting dog, let's say, is a table, then the fighting dog will tear this table apart. [[István Szilárd Németh: I am curious about this!]] Well, that's what I've been thinking a little bit about the Secretary of State's comment. Like a real fighting dog... [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: Where's the joke? So much for socialist promises, not even a joke.]] I'm not gonna tell you this, because I'm gonna be expelled in the end, and I'm gonna be cut off, but, you know, Mr. Secretary, I'm surprised that it doesn't matter what tone anyone has in this parliamentary debate, once it's said what to say, then the Fidesz doesn't think, but just says it, because it's the communication pattern. Thank God there is also some self-thinking in other parties. [[István Szilárd Németh: But what is the end of the joke? Dr. Márton Bitay: When's the punch line coming?]] If the Secretary of State didn't understand what I was talking about, I would say once again that we need to look for a common path on this issue, because corruption has occurred at all times of government, not just in the current governments before that. And what I was talking about is how to find a way together [[György Balla: You should know, you were a member of the government!]] so that this can be exterminated once and for all from Hungarian public life. It wasn't for government parties, it wasn't for opposition, it was for all of us, if you hadn't understood, Mr. Secretary, so I repeated it. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-23-351	Thank you very much. Congressman Tibor Bana, Jobbik!
u2015-11-23-352	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the pro-government speeches in the debate, in which much of the same ideas were chanted, I felt like we were not living in a country, because we heard from the Fidesz-KDNP that everything was okay in Hungary, there was absolutely no problem with corruption during your governance. On the other hand, if we look back over the past years, we have seen that in many cases personalised legislative proposals have come before Parliament, and we have had to face a number of motions here in Parliament with the feeling that some people have put these proposals in the pen, and there has been a narrow circle of you who have then benefited from these opportunities. I am thinking of István Garancsi, Sándor Csányi, Lőrinc Mészáros, Andy Vajna, and we could continue the line for a long time. The Hungarians can see that corruption is booming in the country, it has grown to unprecedented proportions, and a few months ago they talked about this on the pro-government side, because our fellow member Zsolt Tiffán Fidesz had a Facebook entry, which received serious media publicity. What is important in this regard, however, is that our fellow Member Tiffan would have had an obligation to file a complaint in this case. [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] But he didn't do that. In fact, I go further: when Jobbik, my fellow group member György Szilágyi, filed the complaint, they rejected this without listening to Zsolt Tiffán. Well, that's what the fight against corruption that many of you have been talking about over the past few hours is worth. You have been characterized by immense arrogance and arrogance over the years, and this has been manifested in countless areas. I would like to refer to the trafikmútyi, as well as the aspects of this in the county of Vas. It was clear at national level that it was possible to have a fidesz backwind and an orange connection system, and, for example, in our county, in Vas County, there was a case where someone besides Körmenden and Szombathely was able to win a trafic, indeed in other parts of the country, in Sopron, Budaörs and XI. He was lucky in the district, too. This therefore raises the rhetorical question of what it means for you to support local entrepreneurs; it is telling in this respect. But in Szombathely, 31 out of 40 seats were distributed to seven people, while only two locals won, in the nearby Tower the mayor's daughter won, who did not deal with the sale of such products. None of the locals won in Kőszeg, among the winners were Szeged and Székesfehérvár residents, in Celldömölk three out of six seats were won by the brother of one of the Fidesz municipal representatives, and two by an ex-fidesz city representative, and in addition to the former mayor in Jánosháza the sister of the Fidesz Vice-President of the Vas County Assembly was successful. By the way, it is significant that the mayor has not been re-elected in the municipal elections, obviously this maladministration has also played a role. I can assure you that if Jobbik can win by authorising Hungarians in 2018, the accountability will not fail, and, yes, in any case, the accountability will take place. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-353	Secretary of State, Mr. Bitay Márton Örs, please.
u2015-11-23-354	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I only thought, because of Mr President's speech, that it was worth changing a few thoughts about personalised legislation. To whom does it favor the fact that land lease fees cannot be raised, and you have not voted for this? Be kind to tell us which large factory you prefer to pay little, now you could have paid more [[Noise, interruptions in Jobbik's ranks.]] But you didn't vote for that, by the way. Dear Congressman, The fact is that with regard to personalised legislation, you should not blame yourself for the opportunity, but you personally did not vote in favour of the bill that would otherwise have been possible to raise these rents. If I have already heard the floor, I would like to point out to Congressman Csaba Gyüre what local governments should and should not encrypt in relation to real estate rentals and other issues. I have worked a lot for the municipality, and I can tell you that it is absolutely not appropriate to hold a board meeting in a public open procedure, let's say, in connection with the renting of a property, where everyone can see exactly who makes what value, because then the whole criticism doesn't make any sense, and it doesn't encourage those who wish to apply there to bid on each other if there is a public procedure. So the municipality is very rightly holding a closed meeting, and there it will decide who it wants to give it to, because it has an elemental interest for taxpayers. With regard to the trajectories, after being asked for several times, I'd like to remind you that there are two criminal cases in connection with traffic cams. The D.A.'s office is working. They said it wasn't working, but the D.A.'s office is working. None of this is a corruption case, and I would also like to point that out to you, and none of it has been closed, no legal proceedings. So, you can talk about traffic, but no case has yet been brought to court. We respectfully await the court's proceedings and, of course, its decision. Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi: So everything was all right with the committee! Applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2015-11-23-355	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik!
u2015-11-23-356	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State Hada! Surprisingly, you're all under orders here, you're all registered, while the members of the party have already left the benches, you're obviously at home handling your affairs comfortably, hopefully not about political corruption. What I would like to say to you in any case is a very interesting situation in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, and there will be several cases that I hope will come up in the next three or four minutes. One of these is the decade-long series of financial frauds with serious fidesz fibers, which occurred in my hometown, Karcagon, the so-called Kun-Mediator case. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: High ball! Noise, interruptions, Auntie Marchi!]] Some people already say Aunt Marcsi, but I hope that my fellow Member Németh doesn't know her because she has relatives in Karcag, by the way, and she may have been involved in this matter. [[Németh Szilárd István: I am not the one in the same house as her!]] But all you can know about Marcsika, the sufnibróker, is that he was a good government and, if you like, then he had local government and government relations, because Sándor Fazekas was still a mayor, and now he was a minister, because he was a member of the Commission, and he was the one whose travel office was drawing the reward for Minister Fazekas's residential forum, a trip abroad. I think there will be even more interesting threads for Fidesz. All you need to know about this case is that the damage this company has caused is about HUF 20 billion, and it has done so that, by the way, in the last ten years there has been no financial control, no financial rigour, no financial rigour under the Fidesz administration, no financial rigour that could have been used to expose the financial transactions there. It wasn't the financial control body, but neither was the bank that would have indicated that those accounts were worth HUF 20 billion. The other very interesting case in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County is, of course, the case of landlords and the grounded oligarchs. It's enough for me to tell you all the names I've known for so long. [[Dr. Márton Bitay Örs: Robert Benedek Sallai!]] And obviously I don't want to deal with Minister Fazekas' favorites, Szabolcs Fazekas or the Hubai family, because they're pocket oligarchs compared to what the Kékessy family and what the Garancsi interest means, in the surroundings of Tiszaigar and Tiszaszőlős. Only they farm on nearly thousands of hectares, and in the state tender fields, they have been hired for more than 70 hectares. Well, I would like to draw your attention to an interesting person. Many people mentioned this Hunvald case today. In the Hunvald case, there was also a link to the Kékessy family, and that was György Lipcsey, who might also be known by the Secretary of State, who is currently one of the deputy CEOs of the Agricultural Marketing Centre, and this was Mr Lipcsey, who had previously not been sitting in such prestigious positions and chairs, but was on the bench of the defendants in the Hunvald case, and in practically a prestigious position. Since then, of course, he has been cleared of the matter in some way; of course, there are loose and easily sewn threads in the course of accounting, which he seems to have increased. [[22.20]] However, it would be worth mentioning what we will be waiting for to be answered - since Congressman János Pócs always stands up to every corruption issue - that the company called Esos, which is a cooperative, is registered in his local government office and has won HUF 2.6 billion in support, from which he seems to be unable to account for an amount of HUF 1 billion. Well, it may seem that, by the way, former mayor Pócs was dealing in his neighboring office, so he should come up with what he knows about the Esos installed in Yasapáti and the Esos, who is in charge of Jásapáti, but otherwise in eastern Hungary. It would be interesting to hear what happened on the other side of his study, where Esus was active. These are your corruption cases, these are the serious cases involving public funds that weigh the shoulders of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-357	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Bitay Márton Örs, please.
u2015-11-23-358	Thank you very much for the floor. I would like to respond to the Member. Firstly, you have not voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the control of financial institutions or on the tightening of controls. I am only saying this because, obviously, it could also have helped to avoid a fraudulent desire to engage in financial activities. In relation to the fact that when Minister Fazekas was mayor, with regard to municipal decisions, who was able to obtain a lease: I don't know, I think we should ask him personally how he didn't know that he was going to steal that much money with broker scandals last year, and that he didn't see it in advance when the municipality, on a proposal, rented a property with the Mayor's signature. But I could ask you, as far as I'm concerned, that you're part of that property or part of that property, and obviously we're not asking whether you have something to do with the broker scandal. So it's because ten years ago... [[Interjections and clarity in the ranks of Jobbik.]] Yeah, should we put it on? [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] We'll put it on. Good. I suppose you'd be very happy to ask that question, too, if you're already asked by the Jobbik faction. What I would also like to mention is that the Agricultural Marketing Centre does not belong to the Ministry of Agriculture, this is part of the preparation for your speech, so I have no idea who is appointed or who is not appointed there, and we do not decide on the Agricultural Marketing Centre. By the way, if I was paying attention, he said that a company holding thousands of hectares won 70 hectares. I don't know what a huge problem that would be. The company I mentioned, I remember that almost all the bodies of the estate were applied for alone. I think it's not a problem in itself to win 70 hectares of the activity they're doing. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-11-23-359	Thank you very much. Please, Honourable Parliament, I ask if anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] There's a competition between you completely. Congressman János Volner, Jobbik!
u2015-11-23-360	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The lesson of today's debate, the first and most important, is that, at the end of the debate, there were more ministers of state than Fidesz Members. This indicates that the government prepared very seriously for this extremely sensitive question, the Orbán government expected Jobbik to present the system of Fidesz corruption in Hungary through concrete examples. We have brought a whole series of these examples here, we have illustrated with concrete examples how the system works, and we have understood through concrete examples that a systematic operation of corruption is taking place here in Hungary. It is not an isolated case, but the operation of a centrally organised, very often mafia-like state apparatus, which the fidesz majority of legislation itself helps pass through the various bumps, helps put it in position, helps to obtain the money that comes from the people's pockets, the taxpayers. It was also a very important lesson to learn that not only can a business get money through helping them in Parliament, obtaining public procurement, obtaining various state aids, but also in Hungary there is a system of corruption in certain economic sectors such as the distribution of tobacco products, gambling - and it could still be long-listed - that government power intervenes from businesses that operate in market conditions, take away the possibility of orders, the market itself, and then redistribute it among close friends, acquaintances, mates. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, in the heart of Europe, in the territory of a more than a thousand-year-old state, there is a social relationship typical of an African banana republic, where there is a dictator where money can be redistributed, it can be arranged to practically loot the country in a corrupt way and to be partyed to every forint to which the government wants it. In no small part of Hungarian politics, this is the main attraction of European Union accession, and the government also likes to distribute these funds, to disposal them, which is the source of its power, and I note that this is also the source of the media power that is created by the funds provided by politics to create the foundation for the laying of the media empire, and this is also the main direction of expansion. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-11-23-361	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP!
u2015-11-23-362	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The opposition parties will probably come to a similar conclusion as a summary of today's debate, and I can do so very briefly because my fellow Members have already spoken partly about the details, and I think in part that what we have said in the speaker's speech, Mr Group leader and myself, has now gained certainty in this debate. It has been assured that this form of crime, this corruption system that is now operating in the country, is qualitatively and quantitatively different from what has ever worked in the last 25 years. There has been corruption in the last 25 years, and whoever's on the government, I'm going to tell you in advance, as is the case with crime in general, that there will be state corruption in the next 25 years and in the next 25 years. That's not the question. The question is the quality and quantity of this. When you talk about it and give examples of a few hundred thousand forints off and how you skied, it is neither good nor need to be chased, but when you make a parallel to that, you can say that 3000 billion forints or even billions of forints within a public organization, with state coordination, tax administration involvement, could be stolen when you see that an entire state apparatus, an entire state system, is based on promoting and coordinating corruption, you can say here that this is a much more dangerous form than we have ever known as a mafia. It's not that - and that's the point here - that there is a state of some kind of operation and that corrupt politicians in the state apparatus, who are, say, connected to an organized criminal group. This is about the fact that, as I think I have put it, the Prime Minister himself is the godfather, and the government has many relatives and, of course, on a local level, a little further away relatives. This form of operation, I do not say, is unique in the world, because, let's say, in Russia, for example, and in other countries with more unfortunate fates, unfortunately, also in Hungary. We have had many proposals - and this is what my fellow Member Attila Mesterházy spoke about - that aim to combat corruption. There was a time when we were ruling, and there was a time when we were both in opposition. But one thing needs to be seen, in addition to continuing to endure and stand up for these, and we continue to encourage the government and the governing parties to support the adoption of these proposals, one thing can and must be seen: if they are implemented, they will scratch the surface, to put it this way, because in the case of a normal state operation that is not based on corruption, they can be effective tools. Here, however, in my view, there is only one thing that can be effective, and this is the change of government. [[22.30]] The only thing that can be effective is that if this corrupt government, this corrupt system, is replaced by voters. In any case, that is why we will be working, and I think that the majority of opposition parties or perhaps all of them will do so. To sum up, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, what we have suspected and thought of this state corruption has been confirmed in this debate, despite the fact that, of course, we have managed to throw up a lot of dirt on each other. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-23-363	Thank you very much. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP!
u2015-11-23-364	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll pick up where Congressman Bárándy left off to throw up a lot of dirt on each other. I've obviously been paying attention to the competition, who can bring up more thefts and what your arguments are about what's happened in the last five years in this country. There were aspects of how much money was stolen, so it was the quantity itself. The point is, you're going to give us hundreds of millions of dollars in scale, while here, what the opposition is saying, the least of which is billions of dollars. If you want to compete with the MSZP, you are very, very winning, so I encourage you, you are on your way out of this with a win. In who had more corruption cases and how many names they could mention, I was very, very sad to see that they were not very creative, they could mention the same few cases, perhaps they just didn't say Béla Kovács. Or did they say that? I don't know. [[Interpreting, among other things, it was.]] So I didn't hear it alone, but otherwise they could bring it from very, very narrow immersion, even though there was more. If it was my job to get the MSZP out, there's still a lot of business on the Internet, so they're winning again. And in who better protects their fellow parties, who do not want to face up to their own activities, the Fidesz government and Fidesz-KDNP are winning again, because as long as they can tell us how many MSZP politicians have been prosecuted, we cannot tell them how many Fidesz people they are protected from, and the Attorney General is working so hard that we don't see anything that would result. I think it would be no shame for you if you didn't participate in this party and you weren't part of it, then you would simply recognize that this is a real phenomenon in Hungarian society. If it had been acknowledged on this day of debate that this was a real problem for Hungarian society, we would have believed that more of them might not have been involved here. But the problem is that they cover this up, deny themselves the problem, even though the first way to deal with the problem would be to acknowledge this mistake and recognize the problem itself. Since they have not done so today, unfortunately, I must say that they have not taken the first step towards eliminating corruption in Hungary. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-11-23-365	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Once again, I ask if anyone else wishes to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. This brings us to the end of the speeches by its representatives. I now give the floor to Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, within a 20-minute time frame. I would like to remind you that you do not have to live these twenty minutes. [[Defiance.]] Here you go.
u2015-11-23-366	Mr President, Thank you for bringing this to my attention, and I will try to take it into account, probably to the greatest pleasure of this House. Mr President, Dear House, On today's debate, we had three basic expectations: on the one hand, we had to talk about where this government started in 2010; on the other hand, everyone rightly expected us to talk about the government's anti-corruption measures; on the other hand, because today is proof of this, the opposition is full of corruption issues, and Hungarians rightly expect us to be clear on these matters. Everyone can remember the unblessed conditions faced by the government that took office in 2010. It is almost unbelievable that the left is trying to accuse corruption, which has squandered the country's wealth, and has become one with corruption itself. [[Zoltán Grimlock pointing towards the ceiling: Ah, it's a good massive building!]] Attila Mesterházy himself said earlier - today his quote seems to have forgotten - that the corruption cases of the MSZP are a serious problem. [[Attila Mesterházy: Secretary of State, you said it the other way around.]] In his interview with Die Welt, he said that. [[Attila Mesterházy: The other way around! Can't you hear me?]] Ferenc Gyurcsány, who, by the way, is sorely absent from this debate, would certainly have something to say, claimed that he had left the MSZP because they had stolen there. [[Interventions in opposition ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] We cannot decide which is the most expressive symbol of socialist amok running: the cab driver's money bag, the Zuschlag party safe [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: You paid for Zuschlag!]] the tunnels built in the wilderness, the 40 centimeter lookout, the valley bridge across the hills, or perhaps the dog's fitness centre, the Parisian of Miklós Hagyó, but could it be just a nocical box? We don't know. One thing is certain: the government that took office in 2010 declared zero tolerance to corruption. [[Demercation and continuous intervention in opposition ranks.]] In 2011, the current majority of governments included in the Fundamental Law the responsible management of state assets and did so because the left-wing governments wasted Hungarian public assets. [[István Gábor Bellozó applauds.]] Since then, this wealth has been largely recovered by the current government. In addition, the new Public Procurement Act excluded offshore companies from public procurement [[Attila Mesterházy: What has been withdrawn!]] Moreover, the Orbán government has tightened the penalties for corruption offences. Let us not forget that it was this government that has paid off 25 years of inheritance by making party financing more transparent: thanks to the new rules on party financing, all parties will have equal chances and will not depend on external resources. These are measures that prove to be an effective tool in the fight against corruption. [[Dr. Gergely Bárándy: Even the Election Committee denied that! The president's ringing the bell.]] Meanwhile, serious details are emerging from the 2002-2010 government period: yes, the opposition is full of corruption cases. It proves that Ferenc Juhász was sentenced to two years for unfaithful treatment, a former minister [[Zoltán Grimlock: Not final!]] János Wiest, Head of the New Buda Group of MSZP was sentenced to four years of imprisonment and confiscation last year [[Attila Mesterházy: Attila Várhegyi?]] six years in prison, János Zuschlag, one of the leaders of the socialist youth organization. [[Zoltán Grimlock: Then you financed it!]] We all remember that, these are the facts. It is in the common interest of all of us that the Hungarian public can finally see clearly in other matters, even if Zoltán Gőgös accuses and threatens. So it's in everyone's common interest that, yes, we'll find out how Dezső Believing acted on the lease of the office. We would like to see clearly what Gábor Vona meant by the fact that Béla Kovács had heard unsettling things about his case. Everyone has the right to know whether they have been brought to Jobbik through Béla Kovács to the party register, and how many Béla Kovács there are in Jobbik. [[Intercoms in the opposition ranks, including Gábor István Harangozó: Where can you get such a skin thickener?]] There is no point in asking what Tamás Sneider meant by that. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] That a campaign manager has to be friends with mobsters. The voters also rightly expect an answer as to how several hundred million forints were transferred to Gábor Simon's bank account. Thanks to Zoltán Grimlock, we now know he's under house arrest. [[Zoltán Grimlock: It's not there, it's absconding!]] We'd like to know what Attila Mesterházy probably knows. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] It is also certainly in our common interest to find out what the socialist leadership is doing in the case of the Józsefvárosi black cash register, and how many socialist black cash registers are still in the country, not before 2010, but now. [[Attila Mesterházy: You have at least one at Simicska's!]] Dear House, We've been sitting here for seven hours, but one honest thing. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] We have not heard an exploratory opinion on these opposition benches. Congressman Bell said that we need to move past these things, and according to Zoltán Gőgös, we are talking about petty matters. Dear House, No, these are not petty matters, the voters are right to expect us to be clear on these matters. We would also like the opposition to declare zero tolerance to corruption, the government being a partner in this. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Zoltán Grimlock: Lőrinc Ripper? Interviews and applause from the ranks of the MSZP: Bravo! Bravo!]]
u2015-11-23-367	Thank you very much. I am pleased that everyone is pleased; together we are pleased that the political debate is now closed. Now we are at the end of the discussion of our agendas, Honourable Parliament, and so we will have the speeches after the agenda. Representative László Varju has applied for a post-meeting speech, independent. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-368	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, We can all be glad that the moment has come to talk about one of the most enjoyable cases of 2016 for state leaders, which is about the fact that a few weeks ago Fidesz decided on the government's proposal that state leaders would have the opportunity to pay five million forints a month. While the secretary of state has now congratulated each other very much on their great standing in the battle against corruption, and on all this, the essence and, for example, on this matter that I am talking about, they cannot or do not want to talk about, the people, the man of the street, walking on the street, laughing at the pain of it, or crying that he actually has to earn the minimum wage, the minimum wage, and the public leaders can receive a basic wage of five million forints per month. I understand, of course, that there will soon be no one to take the responsibility to cooperate with this Fidesz era, so they must be very paid to do so. They'll be working under these circumstances. [[22.40]] But at any rate, the most important thing for the Orbán government was once again that its own people would benefit from citizens' tax payments. This is just because the four million Hungarian citizens, who are working for less money than the minimum living, are the taxes that are abstract from them and abstract from entrepreneurs, which cover all of this, which I am talking about. And I would like to draw attention to the fact that in 2016, this is what awaits people, and to some leaders, such high pay. But there are consequences, and there are situations that I think are still worth presenting. Among other things, it is the low minimum wage that has led to a dramatic departure from this country. The country is in a state where people can barely pay their bills, I stress, compared to the monthly salary of state officials of five million forints, and these bills can hardly be paid. Hungarians live every month, hundreds of thousands of Hungarians working from morning to evening earn less than the minimum living. The government is now handing out money to people who are now involved or who have been involved in its own environment, which it is taking from entrepreneurs who employ citizens. In view of the survey of the neighbouring countries, or taking into account the data available there, the situation is not good either, as Hungary is also a world record of minimum wage taxes. We are the highest in 33 countries under investigation. Those who earn a minimum wage in Hungary are taxed almost twice as much as in the Netherlands or Belgium, or pay three times as much tax as they should in England. For this reason, according to the Democratic Coalition, it is not Fidesz state leaders who need to be raised, but those who work for minimum wage. We believe that the Hungarian people do not ask for the Fidesz few countries, where the Hungarian people pay taxes so that they can receive the five million-dollar salary of the few. You don't have to raise the two million forints to five million forints, you have to make 90,000 forints out of 70,000 forints. I believe that the fall of the Orbán government is necessary to change this thinking, and if that happens, then it may be clear that there must be a declaration of livelihood and security in Hungary. This is what the Democratic Coalition does, and that is why we say that the minimum wage should be raised, that it should be sent there over the years, that it should be possible gradually to reach at least the minimum level of living, and that is no way for the government to cancel the minimum of living in order to get rid of such a tortured question. You must be responsible for the monthly payments of HUF 5 million. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-23-369	Thank you very much. Does the Secretary of State of Rétvár now wish to respond to this? Good, 'cause he pushed the button, so I thought I'd ask him at 11:45. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-370	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I wish to respond, if not for a long time. The OECD has recently published a study that has put Hungary under review and found that in the past four years, i.e. between 2010 and 2014, there has been no other OECD country where the minimum wage would have increased as much as in Hungary. The minimum wage has increased by 43 percent in Hungary. One of the greatest increases in wages could have been precisely recorded by those employed at minimum wage levels. Obviously, especially if they are raising a child, because their net income and gross earnings coincide. They don't have to pay taxes, they don't have to pay contributions. This is much higher than what would normally be recorded as a wage increase for employees in Hungary, because if I look at this without counting the family tax allowance, it is a value of around 10%, and obviously the family tax reduction will put this on it. And if I'm looking at the pensioners, they're seeing an 8.6 percent increase in purchasing power. Thus, both for pensioners, for children and for non-child workers, but mostly for those employed at the minimum wage, this represents an unprecedented increase. If you look at how much the minimum wage increased during the Fidesz-KDNP periods and during the MSZP period, when you were a pro-government representative, you can see that while the amount of the minimum wage increased by approximately HUF 7,000 per year during the first Orbán government and by HUF 6,000 per year during the second Orbán government, the minimum wage did not increase by HUF 3 000 per year during the MSZP-SZDSZ period. So the conclusion is that the minimum wage is always increased under the right-wing, civil and Christian democratic government for those who earn the least. The minimum earners were most assisted by right-wing governments with the minimum wage, and half the increase in the socialist period was not what minimum wage earners could have booked. Thank you very much. [[Sándor Font applauds.]]
u2015-11-23-371	Thank you very much. Our next speaker on the agenda is Mr Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-372	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Fortunately, I am pleased to say that I have had the opportunity to speak several times here in this House on matters concerning the region of Lake Balaton. Well, in line with this custom, this time I would like to do it again on a particularly joyful subject at this late hour. Once again, in connection with the recent ceremonial transfer of the first phase of southern Balaton rail development, it is a successful and perhaps safe thing to say that I have the opportunity to give an account of a long-awaited development. With the support of the New Széchenyi Plan, we were able to officially hand over the 32 km railway section between the Lepsény and Szántód-Kőröshegy stations last week, on 17 November afternoon. The investment was carried out as a key government project on the southern shore of Lake Balaton, of which 85 per cent was provided by EU funds and 15 per cent by domestic funds. The plan of the railway line along the southern shore of Lake Balaton was already on the agenda before the 1848-49 revolution and the war of independence, but it could only be built in 1861. This is by the way the 19th. At the end of the century, it made a huge development on the shore of Lake Balaton, also on the southern shore, where villas, pensions, hotels, resorts and settlements with thermal water could develop. The so-called 30 railway line between Budapest-Nagykanizsa is one of the busiest and one of the busiest railway sections of Hungary, whose condition has unfortunately deteriorated significantly in recent decades. The development, we can say, was certainly time and necessity, since the now renovated 32 kilometers of a comprehensive track reconstruction could last take place some fifty years ago. The renovation of this section of the South Balaton railway is of great importance for both the inhabitants of the region and the visitors, as the trains can travel again at 100 km/h or above instead of the previous 60 km/h or 80 km/h, thus leading to a significant reduction in travelling time, which greatly increases the comfort of the passengers. The increase in speed and the decrease in driving time show that thanks to the development, the railway journey between Budapest and Siófok may have been reduced to around 1 hour and 15 minutes from now. In view of the modern and aesthetic stages, we can proudly say that a XXI. 21st century technology built. Modern infrastructure of the century was created at Lake Balaton. Within the framework of the project, four kilometres of noise protection walls and 17 kilometres of noise and vibration-reduced rail beds were installed, as well as the construction of the second track pair for several kilometres. At the stations there were so-called high platforms, which are not only aesthetic, but also serve safe take-off and landing. Improving road safety and creating an attractive city centre image was also the aim of the new subway built in Siófok and the new transport hub in Zamárdi. The project could also be used to renew the railway passage to Balatonvilágos and to strengthen the adjacent wall with supporting walls. The authorisation procedure for the entry into service of that gateway is expected to be completed within weeks. Renovation of the Aliga railway underpass is also completed, road traffic is undisturbed during the reshape section under the artifact. The investment launched in September 2014 was completed in a year and two months and not only represents an eye-catching spectacle in its aesthetic, but also significantly increases the safety and comfort of travellers through passenger-friendly services, and, in addition, can make a significant contribution to boosting the region's economy and further strengthening the tourism sector. [[22.50]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is really good news for the Balaton region that, with the investment that has now been completed, the railway development is far from over, because, as a result of the intensive, integrated and complex development of the Balaton region approved by the government recently, the renovation of the South Balaton railway can continue by renovating the section between Szántód-Kőröshegy and Balatonszentgyörgy about 53 km long. According to the preliminary plans, Hungary's government will provide some HUF 44 billion in funding for the implementation of this project, and the investment is expected to be completed by the end of 2018. Ladies and gentlemen, I also think that the rail developments I have just mentioned clearly show that the country now has a government that finally considers the Balaton region not only as a milk cow but as a serious strategic partner and ally. As a Balaton person and as a Member of the Parliament of the region, I sincerely believe that these investments will serve the people of Lake Balaton in a suitable way and can bring pleasure to the guests who will visit the region. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from KDNP.]]
u2015-11-23-373	Thank you very much. Mr László György Lukács is the next speaker, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-374	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We have talked about it quite a lot in recent years, since one of the most important and pressing problems in health care is the issue of lack of a doctor. In particular, perhaps the first place where people encounter a burning medical shortage is the lack of basic care, general health care, home-care professionals, or dentists working in primary care, as these are the first health care points to which people usually go, so they encounter the burning human resources crisis there for the first time. We also know that the number of doctors per capita in Hungary is not yet very low, but is constantly decreasing; and what is even worse, statistical results or even worse, and the fact that they have an ageing age shows a rather bad picture. And unfortunately, this affects the general practitioners more and more, if you like, in a way that goes beyond the clinic doctors. For two years now, the National Institute of Basic Supply and the Government have tried to prevent the lack of loading by means of a practice contest, which, on the one hand, provides financial assistance for the establishment itself and for the purchase of the practice itself, thus trying to address problems that, if you like, are now decades old problems, because there are indeed areas, and for example, the Baranya Nemeske, whose district is a mixed district, so this means that it is also a child or an adult family medical district. Unfilled since 1 April 2001. But in the Borsod County Hernádvécse or, for example, in my constituency, in Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok County, the mixed district of Kenderes has also been vacant since 2005, so it has been vacant for ten years now. It is not possible to say that it is permanently unfilled, but is slowly being filled forever, if you will. This is obviously a very negative result for the residents there. In any case, you can see through the OAI, the National Institute for Basic Supply, a list of unfilled practices currently kicked to 238. This is what the government was trying to reduce with a dedicated resource, a tendering framework, which was 750 million forints in total this year. But it worked last year, with a 500 million-dollar frame, then, unfortunately, only 38 seats were filled by the Ministry. By the way, according to other sources, 41 GP practices were performed that year, so it is obvious that ministry data must be taken as a guide. But if there is a Secretary of State here, then, for example, we can make clear in these questions what numbers are real, and in view of this year, he may be able to give us some other answer. If we are talking about this year, I have already mentioned that 750 million forints are now available, but unfortunately the results have still not improved with the degree that we can say that the unfilled practices have been eliminated. According to press reports, 29 GP applications have been accepted. This was a little contradicted by the fact that 80 applications were accepted by the new Secretary of State for Health. Obviously, the two numbers are not the same, because one means an application mass received, the other means a successful tender. So while the press briefings were on 29, the Secretary of State was talking about 80. But of course, since these applications had to arrive by 31 October, I believe that the outcome is not yet known. But perhaps Mr Secretary of State can now tell us, and then there is no need to ask the Ministry with a written question like that which I had already addressed to the Ministry at the beginning of October, in which they confirmed those numbers, and confirmed the idea and the situation that there is a serious shortage of GPs, and this alone confirmed that a programme is not enough to deal with the situation. For this reason, even last year, Jobbik Hungary's Movement submitted the provision that the government has already included in the budget for 2016 that it intends to grant local business tax exemptions to municipalities to offer this discount to general practitioners. With this, I believe that many municipalities will live, and the first news is that the municipalities are using it. I myself encourage the municipalities to dare to help the workers in primary care with this. But, of course, we also need to think about separate application systems, which were also the suggestion of Jobbik, in which the local business tax exemption is granted as a framework for the amount of business tax, from which it is not granted in cash, but in tenderable, tenderable instruments and renovation frameworks. But we can also talk about new methods of bounty hunting, in which they offer a property, a place to live, or a renovated property to doctors. In any case, one thing must be stated: the government's actions may be just the first steps, and the government must continue to think about how to load the now nearly 200 000. Unfilled practice. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-23-375	Thank you very much. Secretary Retvári responds.
u2015-11-23-376	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Even his fellow political groups could accuse Congressman of government propaganda because he had so well classified the results of the government. Many people know that one of the biggest ticking bombs or problems in the field of health is precisely the issue of ageing general practitioners or the unfulfilled practice of GPs. There are, in fact, about 200 practices at the moment, as Congressman said, which is unfilled. This is obviously, if I look at full care, it is not very big compared to that, but it shows that this is a growing problem year after year and that it needs to be prevented as much as possible. For this reason, the government took action and announced for the first time last year at least 12 months, so for at least one year in the case of unfilled GP practices, the support program for which you said 38 people applied, was awarded. Thus, 20 percent of the unfilled practices were completed last year. This was a total grant of HUF 413 million. For each practice, applicants can receive between HUF 6 million and HUF 10 million net per practice, and they are free to use this amount for anything. But it seems to have encouraged more people to apply. This year, OEP announced it again, now with a larger amount of HUF 500 million, also in the case of unfilled practices a year ago. The population to be provided had to exceed 1,000 adults or 500 children, and it was obviously an advantage if the practice had not been filled longer. This year, between HUF 6 and HUF 10 million, you could use a net amount of free-to-use support. In addition, we have another support programme, and the addition of these two causes the number of uncertainty that Congressman has said, since there is also a practice purchase programme for the government. In this you can ask for a maximum of HUF 4 million. This is bound, however, to be used to buy the right to practice. Here, the advantage is those who buy their practice from a retired GP. That's what helped those who want to buy these for themselves again this year. In this case, it is also necessary to undertake for four years that the person will continue to practice as a general practitioner. There is another such amount in the 16th budget, as we can see that the number of applicants has doubled from last year to this year, so we can now fill not 20 percent, but another 40 percent of the unfilled GP practices with this form of support. This means that 60 percent of the problem seems to be solved in two years. But of course, as newer and more practices are abandoned, obviously, who are very old, so this program must be continued, so after two years it cannot necessarily be stopped, but must be continued. And it is also important to make the GP's career more attractive, that this year's budget is available for HUF 10 billion and next year's additional HUF 10 billion, also worth approximately HUF 130,000 a month. You general doctors can decide what to use it for, thus increasing the profitability of your practice, or using it for employees and equipment. They decide for themselves what they use it for, but the state guarantees it, precisely because we believe in prevention, strengthening basic care, we voted in favour of screening programs. [[23.00]] The basic condition of this is that there should be a general practitioner everywhere and a respected career in the field of general health. That is why we have adopted these financial measures to strengthen GP practices in several directions. We hope that this is the negative process that you've been talking about, I've been talking about, you can stop it and reverse it, and the signs are very positive. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-23-377	Thank you. Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian Congressman Jobbik, here you go.
u2015-11-23-378	Mr President, Dear House, Seven Members, including the President, are in the Chamber now, when I wish to share a few thoughts on a very important issue, which will also come out of the title. When we talk about stopping the flood, we can think of a number of floods. On the one hand, we have an outflow from outside our borders and, on the other hand, there is obviously an outflow from Hungary at the same time, and, on the other hand, we can prepare for a migration from Western Europe on the basis of quota or deportation as a third threat. The handling of these issues will be discussed here and there in Parliament. We don't agree on solutions, but it's obvious that we have to start somewhere. At the same time, we can see that, in any direction we go, our action will be worth nothing in the long term if Hungary fails to straighten the fallen coral. Therefore, I hope that the Secretary of State will be able to adjust us, or someone who will answer this question as to how the current government is imagining the restoration of population balance in Hungary. What we can see is that we should not take it away from him, let us not be against him, is that we have managed to provide families with very serious amounts of money in a family tax reduction or other form. Yet we see that there has been a very unfortunate process. Twenty-four months of slow, it is true that after an increase in the number of live births, after 24 months, we are faced with another regrettable decline, despite the billions that have been grouped there. That is why the question arises: what is the government planning in this area? And while we are referring to the issue of migration, it is not by accident that we are doing so, as in the recent past, some 30 experts from the Academy of Sciences, we are talking about real excellent authorities, lawyers, economists, others, have developed a study-like approach that has seriously addressed the issue of migration. To me, in an amazing way, however, they were trying to point out, in an exact opposite way to national interests, that some sort of settlement strategy should be developed for migrant masses, as if our population shortage could be compensated by the fact that large populations of aliens are being brought here and settled. In an amazing way, in a perfectly opposite manner to government rhetoric, they were able to put down an action plan, which specifically refers to the need to encourage these arriving people to settle here in the largest possible mass by means of a system of incentives. Obviously, it follows from this interpretation that this may apply to deportees or even to those sent here under quota. That's why we, the good guys, say we're practicing zero tolerance for all attempts at external settlements. But we must say that we can only achieve results if Hungary is able to achieve its own reproduction in some way. There have been very interesting demographic issues recently. According to one, if only 3 people could be distinguished from 20 people so that they could live in a family with 5-6-7 children in the long run, it would be able to up the 1.3 birth rate by virtually three tenths in the long term up to 1.6-1.7. This may be a game with numbers, but in the long run, it really depends on whether we will have, even if it is not sustainable, but a functioning pension system, whether we will have enough Hungarian taxpayers in Hungary, and whether we will be able to populate the Hungarian countryside and obviously Hungarian cities as a result, or if others will try to populate it. This is why we urge the government, although it exercises apparent benefits with family home-building benefits and other means, and these are measurable benefits for families in a better position, the budget shows that in 2015 it provided a source for the construction of less than 300 apartments at national level. When we see that rent prices are getting out of hand, that many young people are going abroad because they cannot separate from the family, they cannot create an independent living space, and for the reasons we also see that the government does not have a well-thought-out home-building and rental-building program. Moreover, with purely financial incentives and such as they are now, the population crisis cannot be resolved, as a long-term vision needs to be drawn up for these people. We should also say that it is very, very bad to have studies carried out at the request of a ministry, not on the restoration of our own reproduction, but on the mass introduction of aliens from outside. The aura of this is particularly bad if, besides Jobbik, it is now a little late, but in a very good way, the government is also agitating to prevent people from coming from abroad to settle here, because Hungary has to do its own reproduction on its own. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-11-23-379	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State will respond.
u2015-11-23-380	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I would like to respond briefly to the three main movements you have said, honourable Member. The first is to encourage childbearing. Let me just highlight one segment for you, because obviously I could talk about family-type tax incentives, social contributions, Socpol and much more. But let me highlight one. What you can see in the population statistics, you have indicated that the fertility rate has increased from 1.2 to 1.4. This is how many children there are for a woman of childbearing age, which is welcome, because we have set a peak, an increase that has not been seen since the early 1980s, there has been no experience of a permanent increase in fertility rates and children's birth rates in Hungary. At the same time, we can see that what happens back there is the proportion of families with two children. So there are families with one child, there are three and more children, but somehow the number of families with two children has fallen. This is important because if a person becomes a three - child, logically he must have two children before him, so a brother must be given to the first child as the greatest gift. This is why it is important for the government to give greater encouragement to the second child's commitment. That is why we have adopted next year's tax law, the fiscal law, to double the amount of tax relief for the second child in four years. We hope that this will also encourage the second child's commitment. You're talking about a housing program, Congressman. The government's one step further on this. Within the framework of the family home creation discount, we will be able to provide thousands of families this year with a home creation discount of between 0.5 and 3 million forints - about 6,000 for families already started - which is non-refundable. This not for rent, but for property, because obviously to have a child, extra resources are needed for the development of the children's room. That's exactly what the CSOK can do for families. Next year's budget includes HUF 12 billion for this purpose, which families can apply most flexibly, according to their own goals and their own situation. That's what we're hoping to give people, families, property. We want them to live in the apartment they own. The third part is immigration, the issue of resettlement. The congressman could hear it in the news, read on the Internet that the Budapest Demographic Forum took place in Budapest two weeks ago with participants from 18 different countries, ministers, state ministers, Deputy State Secretarys and experts alike. From North America to Turkey, many countries and countless European countries represented themselves. It was clear that the question of demography should be brought to a much higher level in politics, especially in European politics. Even though the British Minister, David Cameron's minister, was proud to know exactly what measures were taken to create more British children in Britain, he also said that European Union or other international metrics, measuring methods are inadequate to measure the effects of the measures. That's why they've been working on their own. Almost all EU Members and politicians have agreed that this is not an issue at all in the EU. Many other issues are topics, but demography and populationization are not topics, and European politicians do not dare to deal with this. For us Hungarian politicians and for others who have participated in this demographic forum from other countries, this is one of our common tasks to achieve the Union's courage to address this issue. On the subject of political correctness, it was not on the inside, but on the outside, they did not dare to talk about it, they did not have the vocabulary or courage to speak about it. What I would therefore like to achieve, in particular, is the Christian Democrats in Central European countries, but also the politicians in other countries, who consider the population to be important, so that we can talk about this at EU level, as we are talking about the problem of the entire continent. This is not a problem in Hungary, this is a problem in Europe, as the European population is expected to decrease by 15 percent by the end of the century. While the population in Europe is decreasing by 15 percent, it is growing 3.8 times in Africa, thus increasing to 380 percent. [[23.10]] This will generate a huge impact, obviously from the more densely populated part to the less populated part of Europe has a suction effect. We believe that this is not the future of Europe, but that it is good demography, good population policy, the future of Europe, not migration, not resettlement. Thank you very much.
u2015-11-23-381	Thank you. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek, LMP.
u2015-11-23-382	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Faculty of State Secretary, I note in the minutes that the opposition is present in Parliament with a two-thirds majority, and so I begin with a calm conscience to commemorate the book, lecture and film of former US vice-president Al Gore, which practically drew attention to the global crisis that climate change could lead to. After the dramatic events of the last few days, which have shaken the world, and which are not enough to express our sympathy and solidarity with the French people as well as those of the Russian victims or of the relatives of other victims in Europe or around the world, the world has to pay attention to Paris as of 30 November to 21 December, since the world's leaders and experts are not able to express enough compassion and solidarity with the French capital on climate change, and they are trying to make the environmental commitments with self-tempered self-esteems that would create the prospect of a future in relation to the emission of pollutants and daily living in the economies of those countries, so that by the end of this century an additional 3 degree or even 2 degree average warming will not occur, since its unforeseen consequences have a number of other social impacts and can re-charve the world map. It is important to talk about all this in the context of dramatic events, because if we look at the world at the moment and see how the possibilities of access to drinking water in different parts of the world have been reduced over the past decades, then we have to face the fact that the migration process, the flood of refugees, is largely linked to the climate crisis that is developing in the world. I am pleased to inform the Honourable Parliament that the Committee on Sustainable Development has been invited by Hungarian representatives of the international organization called Friends of the Earth, the Association of Hungarian Nature Protectors, to participate in this week's approach-forming program entitled "Towards Paris," and we have been invited to Kossuth Square to join in some form the messages collected by MTVSZ activists. Together with the member organizations of the Association of Hungarian Nature Protectors, in cooperation with university clubs, they organised information and photo conference days, and hundreds, more than 500 Hungarian citizens gave a message to the world's leaders about the need and the need to create a more climate friendly economy in the world, and why it is important for this campaign to have as many words as possible about the real energy revolution and local communities, which, although unable to participate in climate negotiations, could make a significant contribution to a positive change in the world with their organisation and work. These photo messages were created in the form of a photobook, and we can receive these messages here in front of Parliament on Thursday. Obviously, it is not only important that I take over this as a committee of the Parliament, but it is important that as many politicians from the government as possible be represented, and especially that these messages reach the diplomats and colleagues from abroad in Hungary who will represent our country at the Paris Climate Summit. I wanted to draw attention to this opportunity by speaking after the agenda, because, in practice, Hungary can say that it is very effective in combating climate change and reducing emissions, but Hungary is in a position to lose significant parts of its industry, and the development rate in which it is at the moment is unfortunately contrary to the expectations that our country must take on at the climate summit. Therefore, I ask with great respect the members of the Parliament and the representatives of the government to honour the event of the Association of Hungarian Nature Protectors here in Kossuth Square on Thursday, and these photo messages, which our compatriots send to the participants of the climate summit, to help us interpret them. I would like to ask you with all due respect to the President.
u2015-11-23-383	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member István Ikotity, notary of the Parliament, representative of the LMP. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-384	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, In 2010, the Fidesz government tried to explain with a loud argument why it is good that the results of decades of work should be cut short in terms of integration to the last century's level of environmental protection and institutional system. But at least he would have taken integration seriously and enforced it in government! While it is true that jailing is now all over their decisions, this is not the case at all for measures to preserve our health. For example, it is precisely due to the harmful effects of air pollution on health and the significant problem in our major cities. As early as 2005, the National Institute of Environmental Health summarized its research results on the health-damaging effects of the group of dust below 10 micrometers in Budapest and some rural cities such as Miskolc, Győr, Pécs, Eger and Komló in 2002. It was found that if the short-term peak concentration could be reduced to less than 20 micrograms per cubic metre, it would be possible to save the lives of 170 people in Budapest, a total of 108 people in rural cities, and 91 in Budapest and 59 cardiovascular deaths in other cities every year. In order to reduce the lasting impact of PM10, much greater results could be achieved. If the average annual concentration were to be reduced to 20 micrograms per cubic metre, a total of 1072 deaths could be avoided in Budapest and in the countryside. And then the other air pollutants, such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, ozone, lead, and the other effects, were not discussed. In recent times, a smogriado had to be ordered again in the capital city of Pécs, in nine other cities: Vácon, Kazincbarcikán, Sajószentpéter, Nyíregyháza, Debrecen, Sopron, Ajkán and Veszprém, and the air-health situation was unhealthy due to the high concentration of particulate matter. 11 cities: Százhalombatta, Miskolc, Salgótarján, Eger, Szolnok, Szeged, Győr, Esztergom, Tatabánya, Székesfehérvár and Dunaújváros, these settlements received an objection. However, the problem could be addressed in a number of ways, for example, if the government were to finally support investments in energy saving and efficiency, such as insulation of buildings or modern heaters, and if not only about 40% energy savings, but also much less pollutant emissions could be ensured; if they were finally to support community transport, reliable, quality school and work, local and agglomeration flights; if the development of settlements took into account the basic environmental aspects of urban planning and operation, such as ventilation, swallowing capacity, protection forests, parks or public cleanliness; if they had at least more mobile measuring stations, so that we could get a more nuanced picture of air purity than we do now. Allow me to give you an example in the end. In the eastern part of Győr, a huge industrial area has been built over the last 20 years. The industrial area was installed between the city and Győrszentiván with about 10,000 main inhabitants to the east. Since in Győr, as in so many other places in Hungary, the prevailing wind direction is west-northwest, the harmful emissions of the industrial area are coming to this part of Győrszentiván. The location of the industrial area was therefore not very fortunate for Győrszentiván, but the residents could at least receive regular information on the quality of the air. However, the city's two measuring stations are in the city centre, and the air quality of the area in Győrszentiván cannot be established based on them. The LMP calls on the government to allow people to get some fresh air, to provide regular information on air purity as well as to reduce air pollution substantially. Thank you for your attention. [[23.20]]
u2015-11-23-385	Thank you very much. I would like to inform Congressman that, on behalf of the government, the Ministry of Agriculture will respond in writing. Now it's time for Mr Zoltán Kész. Here you go.
u2015-11-23-386	Mr President, Dear fellow Members of the LMP, Thank you for honoring me at this late hour. Two years ago, László Majtényi, former Data Protection Commissioner, compared László Kövér, today's President of the Parliament, to István Stadinger, the last Speaker of the Communist Party State. The comparison, however, was lame, as Stadingeren was openly mocked by the public radio cabaret in 1989, but in the brainwashing room, which called 80 billion forints a year, there was no joke about the Speaker of the House, nor could it be asked an unpleasant question. Does anyone remember an interview where he or the Prime Minister would have been caught in the crossfire by reporters? When did this happen? How many years? Has Viktor Orbán argued with anyone since he was defeated in a TV debate in 2006. Who are they, ladies and gentlemen, that they can cynically end the debate, the clash of political opinions in Hungary? The Speaker of Parliament has just banned the RTL Club from the National Assembly. But who's it gonna be tomorrow? The time may soon come for the blooperade running under the name M1 and the friendly Kazakhstan and Russian state TV to remain, since they know what to say on their own. The ban was preceded by a shameful scene when the impertinent pressman of the Prime Minister had the Parliamentary Guard cast the staff of his work out of Parliament. Those who do not eat from the palm of their hands should be chased automatically. He has come here, our country has been brought here by the Alliance of Young Democrats. Unfortunately, the case is not unique. Directly from the Orbán system comes the exclusivity, the suppression of other views, the ruthless media monopoly, which does not include the question, the debate or the opposition. It's the only way they can exist. Parliament's weight is slowly as it was in the '60s and '70s, and there will certainly still be sessions, but there have been sessions for fifty years. Few people remember that in the first years of the rule of law, around 1990, photographers could still work in the middle of the Chamber, from which the Speaker would now have them dragged out in irons in case of accidental appearance. A lot of photos were taken at the time, we could see the Members at close range, not as today's Minister of Propaganda wants them to see. Of course, the Members of the time were also disturbed by the great media publicity, so the difficulty of the press' work began in democratic times, but the dubious glory of the displacement of freedom of the press from the Hungarian Parliament is linked to the Orbán system. Ladies and gentlemen, Clearly, instead of today, Parliament needs fair and fair house rules and simple, flexible rules on the media. It's not order, it's not conservative, it's self-indulgent based on communist logic. Viktor Orbán and László Kövér know this, but they chose this path, because their system can only be maintained on this road, both outside and inside Parliament. Therefore, the power is not satisfied with the pro-party expansion of state propaganda funds of a thousand billion dollars. They also want to make the remaining surfaces impossible, eliminated and eliminated, where they do not echo his endless propaganda. The system of special taxes and other tricks is all for one purpose: if an editorial office cannot be closed by authority - as Orbán's favorite autocracy system in Turkey - then it must be bought or forced out or the editor-in-chief must be fired. At the same time, as news director, the chief commissar of state television, the forger of whom the court has now declared to be a forger. But that's why he's an ideal media guy. He doesn't ask questions. He just does his job. Today's public media reminds us not of the final period of the communist regime, but of its first decades. Therefore, I am convinced that old István Stadinger would now rightly ask for it to be compared to László Kövér, since the freedom of the press in all respects in the last half decade of the Kádár system was greater than today. Dear fellow Members, Although this fact obviously does not bother you at all, Viktor Orbán and László Kövér fought not against the party but only against their leaders between 1988 and 1990. Orbán had a problem with the system that he didn't drive it. As soon as he had the opportunity to do so, he built a government-party-diabetes literature that wouldn't be far from Kim Jongun's taste. It's the sky for the border, too. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-11-23-387	Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you that, on behalf of the government, the Ministry of Interior will respond in writing. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the next meeting of the autumn session is expected to take place on 30 November 2015. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. Good night, everyone. [[The meeting ended at 11:25 p.m.]] László Földi s.k.a.
