u2015-04-14-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 21st day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, notaries Erzsébet Schmuck and Attila Gelencsér will help me. I welcome our dear guests and all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the May Other Politics, spoke before today's agenda, with the title of the Sustainable Development Goals and the related domestic situation that will be on the agenda at the autumn session of the United Nations.
u2015-04-14-1	Thank you very much. Dear House, The deadline for meeting the Millennium Development Goals expires in 2015. A post-2015 agenda with sustainability requirements is currently being developed, which is expected to be adopted by the UN Autumn General Assembly. The UN published in May 2013 the Sustainable Development Goals for the post-2015 period, which contain 17 objectives and 169 sub-targets. The objectives listed are not unknown, as in 2000, 189 UN Member States committed to halving by 2015 the proportion of people with less than 1 dollar a day and people with hunger, achieving that all boys and girls finish primary school, ensuring environmental sustainability, reversing environmental resource reductions, reducing their share by half, who permanently do not have access to healthy drinking water. Unfortunately, the world has failed to meet most of these goals. According to official statistics in 2011, more than 3 billion people in the world live on less than 2.5 dollars a day, half or less on 1.3 billion people. On Earth, 1 billion children live in poverty, 8500 of which die every day because of hunger. Although statistics show that the number of people living in extreme poverty has been reduced somewhat, this does not mean much. On the one hand, because the poverty threshold has not been raised following inflation, and on the other hand, the increase in incomes is much stronger among the wealthy than for those living in poverty. The income gap has increased between the poor and the rich. Along with income poverty, deprivation of other goods is also increasing. For example, 85 percent of Earth's water supply is used by 12 percent of the world's population. The situation is particularly bad with regard to environmental sustainability. Climate change is already causing the death of 300,000 people a year and is undoubtedly linked to the world's refugee flood and our increasingly bad agricultural outlook. Climate change also affects the unprecedented loss of biodiversity and soil degradation. In tackling social and environmental problems, the European Community and our country do not stand out either. In most Member States, the percentage of people at risk of poverty increased compared to 2008. In 2013, there were five Member States where more than one third of the population was threatened by poverty. Among them is Hungary. In child poverty, Hungary is among the hosts within the European Union. We have 42.4 percent of the smallest children under 7 years of age living in poverty, and we are not doing much better in terms of severe material deprivation. While some steps have been taken by the government in recent years to address economic growth and poverty, the issue of environmental sustainability has been completely removed from the agenda, the former institutional system of environmental protection is now almost completely eliminated. Dear Parliament, Hungary, as part of the world society and part of the UN process, cannot avoid facing these issues. Nevertheless, the thinking and actions of the leading politicians in our country are not affected by sustainable development. There is a lack of understanding that sustainable development is not a social, environmental and non-economic issue, but all three at the same time in one system; that is, a new quality of economic growth that is socially fair and is achieved with an absolute reduction of environmental pressures. Social and environmental issues must therefore be resolved not outside the development, but together with them at the same time. Therefore, I would like to point out to the Minister that it is time to put into government work the idea of sustainable development, the promotion of environmental and social aspects in decision-making on development, last but not least to make the aspects of the UN process in Hungary understandable and transparent for society. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-04-14-2	Thank you, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó will respond.
u2015-04-14-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you very much, first of all, for your suggestion, given that it was undoubtedly a timely and important issue from a Hungarian national point of view. In general, before I get to the specifics, I would like to tell you that we also welcome your suggestion because the current Hungarian foreign policy and external economic thinking pays more attention to multilateral diplomacy than previously. We consider multilateral diplomacy to be one of our very important instruments of national interest and representation of national interests, so we have also set ourselves an important objective to activate Hungarian engagement in the UN. Firstly, I would like to say to you that multilateral diplomacy will focus in 2015 on sustainable development and international processes in this context. So, if you like it, then your suggestion to focus on sustainable development in government policy has already been heard, given that the decisions to be taken determine the direction of international economic and social development for practically decades, including the scope of the Hungarian economy and Hungary as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and At the UN Conference on Sustainable Development held in 2012, however, a decision was taken to prepare a new global agenda for the post-2015 implementation of the Millennium Development Goals by the end of the deadline. [[9.10]] One of the most important tools for the development of this framework was the UN General Assembly's Open Working Group, one of the functions of which was performed by a Hungarian diplomat, Csaba Kőrösi, former head of our United Nations Mission in New York. You will also know that on 10 September of the last year, the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution welcoming a report, according to which the proposals contained in the report serve as a basis for integrating sustainable development goals into the post-2015 framework. You have quoted precisely, honourable Member, that the package of proposals contains 17 objectives and 169 sub-targets, and you are also absolutely right that the world has, unfortunately, performed quite debatablely over the past period. I would like to inform you of the state of play of the sustainable development negotiations. Intergovernmental negotiations for the establishment of the framework are based on two main processes. One process is to finalise the development goals and define the framework or instrument system that leads to it, and the other is to focus on creating the necessary funding for implementation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Finally, I would like to present to you the Hungarian government's position on this. First of all, the Hungarian Government is not only constantly monitoring, but also actively participating in the relevant negotiations, which will develop the post-2015 development framework. We are committed to the Hungarian co-chairing of sustainable development goals and sub-targets, while keeping the proposals of an open working group. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and It is therefore our clear position that we would like to avoid renegotiating these previously defined objectives and sub-targets and reopening negotiations. Finally, there is a position where we disagree with the European Union's intended common position, which assumes a ratio of 0,7 per cent between participation in development programmes and gross national income. We believe that for the countries that joined the European Union after 2002, the commitment to 2030 with a target of 0.33% ODA/GNI would be a reasonable goal. Compared to this, the European Union's position at present seems to be in the direction of a collective ratio of 0.7 per cent, but we are also working on this issue and we are continuing to agree on it. She is right about the fact that it is a very important complex and general government task, which is related to and related to sustainable development, so the government intends to continue working in this area in cooperation with the relevant organisations and Parliament. Thank you again for raising the subject to the Member, and thank you for your attention.
u2015-04-14-4	Thank you, Minister Szijjártó. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Normal life in Hungary! It's an address. You have the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2015-04-14-5	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Not only in the world, as is the case with the former, but also in Hungary, there are harsh conditions, simply because the problems have been further deepened over the past five years, they further widen the differences practically between the poor and the wealthy. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's not true.]] The formula is very simple. Apparently, while five years ago there was still a difficult situation, deprivation, 20-21 percent of children lived their daily lives in this condition, we have now come to the point that almost every second child is deprived. That's one of the biggest problems in the country, I think. That should change. Before 2010, you have made promises that you will make a radical tax reduction, that you will create 1 million new jobs in the economy, that wages will increase radically. On the other hand, it is possible to talk about average numbers, that the situation is better. My fellow Member Czomba, Mr Secretary of State, will tell such a story in Parliament, but clearly, those with low incomes are not the winners of this story. In terms of employment, we are constantly faced with lying. They lie to people, they try to deceive them, believe that they have a better life, while even the government spokesperson does so through various organs and advertises it. They use numbers that have increased the number of people employed in the competitive sector by 450,000, while if you look at the data of the KSH, nothing else, you can see that in the course of four years from 2010 to 2014, there are no more than 14-15 thousand employees; not 500 thousand, which should have happened in five years, based on promises. But not only in terms of employment, we are faced with lies, but when it comes to unemployment, we see that everyone who can be thrown out of care systems makes access to social benefits more difficult for people who cannot. And what do wages look like? Wages look like, fellow Members, that let's say that the public-employed person who made 60 200 forints in 2010 received this amount, after the famous 47,000 we have now reached the point of making 52-53,000 forints, which, of course, is the value of the buyer, if he goes into the store, is about one-third less than he was in 2010. The two-thirds government has taken one third of the wages of the public workers. How's the minimum wage man doing with this situation? It is said that today he has a minimum wage of 68 750 HUF, which he receives, which is worth 5 thousand HUF less in purchasing power than in 2010. But also in the public sector, the civil servant's salary has been virtually unchanged for five years since you have been in government: HUF 38 650. This means that this is the first period of governance - the past year in Orbán behind us and one year now - when the civil servant's salary has not changed positively. A regulatory system - the Code of Work - was established that was once again the most restrictive of the people most in need of help. They took replacements, they made collective contractual cuts that made their situation difficult, but they also made the situation virtually impossible for interest representatives. In fact, a situation has been brought to life that, for example, in the area of national security, there can no longer be a union. And they tell people apart: some people get extra leave, some people don't get it. Based on these situations, the Hungarian Socialist Party has presented several draft parliamentary resolutions in recent weeks and months, which, of course, you have rejected from guts, which were about creating a world of work, an environment through the reregulation of the Labour Code, which brings a more normal situation and strengthens peace of work; to move forward with regard to the poverty of its employees and to ease the situation; to make tangible changes in wages for people and not to create a situation where between 500 and 600 thousand people leave the country as economic refugees. One word as a hundred: a world must be built where not your own, your own superiors are rich in excess, but a better, more livable, more normal country will be created for the people. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-14-6	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári responds to what has been said. [[9.20]]
u2015-04-14-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is necessary to respond to the false statements made by my fellow Member, Mr Nándor Gúr, because there is a great deal to be refuted from all sides. Let me start with the latest you've told me about the situation of the children whose parents cannot, for some reason, give proper food. You may have met him, last week, the government decided that instead of the 92,000 children so far, from September this year, 320 thousand children will receive multiple, three times a day free meals. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: Lazarus announced it for the fourth time! You've been saying that for five years.]] in the institutional system of public education. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] This is the step that socialist governments could have taken, but they did not. They could have extended the possibility of giving free catering to children whose parents and household income per capita is less than 130 percent of the minimum wage, and the minimum wage was much lower than yours. [[Nándor Gúr: Think about this. Think about what you're saying.]] You have raised the minimum wage at a rate of three times the Fidesz-KDNP government. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Remember that it was Fidesz-KDNP who raised the minimum wage from HUF 17,000 to HUF 50,000 in their first four-year cycle. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] You have raised this from 50,000 forints in eight years to just over 70,000 forints. [[Nándor Gúr: The Gross.]] And we have now raised the minimum wage from over 70,000 forints to over 100,000 forints. Obviously, it has to be measured in relation to this...
u2015-04-14-8	Mr. Secretary, I'm interrupting for a moment. Dear notary, Congressman, you've had more than five minutes to express your thoughts. [[Nándor Gúr: I told you.]] And there will be after that. Be kind and listen quietly to the answer. Thank you very much. [[Nándor Gúr: If you are talking about reality, then yes.]] This will be discussed during the break or in a speech before another agenda. Thank you, Mr. Notary. [[Nándor Gúr intervenes.]] Don't make me warn you, notary. Here.
u2015-04-14-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I would like to continue. So, compared to the snail pace of socialist governments, Fidesz-KDNP was able and wanted to raise the minimum wage to a much greater extent. This was for one reason Fidesz-KDNP wanted to do something for employees, who work every day from Monday to Friday, and not for companies who only care about cheap labour, because those people were more easily exposed by the former MSZP government than Fidesz-KDNP is now trying to take the policy of wage increases in wages. We could talk about the teachers you know, in 2013 we spent HUF 32 billion more on their wages. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] In 2014, 120 billion more were added, and we raised 38 billion this year, in which, for example, we increased the wages of teachers. But we could talk about the 76 billion forints that the government has spent on raising the wages of health care workers, the tens to a few billion forints, the 12 to 14 billion forints it has been able to give as a starting step in the social sector, but obviously it would like to continue with the government, or the decisions that we are making today, and which offer law enforcement workers a 50 percent wage development over several years. These are real decisions, which socialist governments cannot report, only that they have taken away the 13th month's wages of people who work in the public sector as civil servants, an 8 percent wage reduction. If one has contributed 8 percent to the reduction of public sector workers' wages and pensioners' pensions, then I find it odd that the government is making 30-40 percent wage improvements in the case of teachers. But I can also tell you that, over the past four years, if you have already brought forward the situation of children, it has been this government that has increased the budget from 29 billion to 58 billion that we are spending on feeding children. And it is also talkative that, unlike the previous governments, the first operational programme for this government to be accepted in Brussels for the distribution of EU development money was the food package programme - an operational programme to support people in need, as is called in Brussels - and we have accepted 30 billion forints at the cost of this, before all else we call these EU funds to feed the most deprived children. I have to say that, in contrast to what you and Erzsébet Schmuck have said, if we look at the poverty figures validated by Eurostat in Hungary, then the number of people who are at risk of poverty in some way has fallen by 241 thousand over the past period, and we can all be proud of that, that so much less people are at risk of poverty. This is due, among other things, to job creation, because we have not increased the number of unemployed by 250,000, as you have done, but we have increased the number of people who have jobs by 400,000. And if I look at the social expenditure, if I count the public employment budget, this has increased from 376 billion in the previous year to 411 billion forints this year. This has its results, honourable Member, because the number of people who cannot go on holiday for financial reasons has fallen by 700 thousand in two years, and the number of people who cannot afford to eat meat every two days has decreased by almost 500 thousand, and the number of people who did not have adequate housing heating because they could not pay their bills for a financial reason has decreased by a quarter of a million, by 250 thousand, which is why utility debts have also decreased by 15 percent on the other side. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] But the fact that people can afford a little more is also a sign that the number of car purchases has increased by 20%, while 70,000 less said that they do not have a car for financial reasons. We can therefore say, honourable Member, that the country is doing well in these areas, and that people who go to work every week can count on the government and live better today. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-14-10	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, János Volner, representative of Jobbik also applied for a speech before the agenda:. Why did Jobbik initiate a committee of inquiry because of the broker scandal? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-14-11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would also like to tell my fellow Members why we have come forward with this committee initiative. You can see from the data we have learned so far that it is a series of thefts lasting for 15 years, and you can also see that Fidesz and socialist governments have had a very good relationship with this group of brokers. It can be concluded that one of the brokerage companies in question, Buda-Cash, was a man who went from Buda-Cash to the Bajnai government. In the Quaestor case, it is also possible to note that the state guarantee during the Gyurcsány government was worth nearly HUF 17 billion of taxpayers' money, and between 2002-2010, during the period of socialist governments, brokerage companies received HUF 300 billion in public money, so they traded with taxpayers' money. It is therefore quite clear that socialist governments have been muddy to the neck in this broker scandal, and they themselves have managed irresponsiblely with public funds. In 2010, Fidesz helped Quaestor by covering up the report on Quaestor, not checking the company group at the same time, and in 2010 they covered up the complaint I made for HUF 171 billion in damages to Postabank. Here, the lawyers representing the Hungarian State ran out of the appeal deadline, and the Hungarian state's claim was postponed in this way, so no one replied. Then, for four and a half years, they did not control the brokerage companies, and this year, on 15 March, in the middle of the brokerage scandal, he decorated Károly Fidesz Szász, the man who managed Hungarian financial supervision for three years from this particular five-year control cycle, when he failed to control any such brokerage company in the Hungarian National Bank. Later, it was also quite clear that the 24 right-wing amendments tabled in November 2010, which I personally noted, were voted out by the Socialists and Fidesz in the Grand Coalition in Parliament. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we use the term Quaestor Coalition for this forming coalition, because it is nothing more than when we tried to raise the limits of personal responsibility, we voted off this entire Fidesz faction here in plenary, and the entire socialist faction voted off. That's how they excuse bankers and crooked brokers. When someone here on the parliamentary stage looks at what is going on, of course, the members of the Fidesz and the socialists speak very hard, when the votes take place, interestingly, this toughness has already vanished, absolving crooked brokers and bankers. It is also worth looking at who would like to set up a committee of inquiry for what period. Fidesz would only look at the period before 2010, the socialists, the socialists would only look at the period after 2010, only the period of Fidesz, although it is quite clear that a 15-year-long series of thefts will have to investigate everyone's own responsibility for each government cycle. Anyone who doesn't have anything to hide will take it. [[9.30]] Jobbik will entrust the lawyer Damm Andrea, who is sitting behind me in the box, to investigate the Quaestor case very carefully, to represent the victims in all yoga forums, on the one hand, and on the other hand, to find out the truth - even taking this matter to the European Union stage - exactly what happened in this case. Last but not least, we demand the answer that if Fidesz really wants to account for the bank and broker scandals, then how could the miracle of 12 years - twelve years! - is not responsible for the K&H Key Price case, since then there has not been a judgment of first instance. We also demand - and I very much ask the Secretary of State not to side with it - when the government will make public the data of those who took money from the Quaestor during the last period. There is strong suspicion that there is strong political involvement and involvement of economic lunar yards in this case, and that there is also suspicion that only the Quaestor victims are affected [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This compensation applies, not to others. We expect a clear answer, Mr. Secretary. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-14-12	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Répássy Róbert will respond.
u2015-04-14-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I fully agree with one sentence, according to which socialist governments were muddy to the neck in this broker scandal, said János Volner, who initiated a committee of inquiry with the following parliamentary representatives to investigate the responsibility of socialist governments: József Tóbias, Zoltán Gőgös, Zoltán Lukács, Bertalan Tóth, László Varga, Gergely Bárándy, Ágnes Kunhalmi, Sándor Burány, István Hiller, Attila Mesterházy, Zsolt Legény [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks: So?]] Nándor Gúr, Imre Horváth, Sándor Szabó, Lajos Korózs, László Kiss, Anita Heringes, Márta Demeter [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] And Tom the Bell. Dear House, Dear TV viewers, In case someone does not know, this is not the initiative of the Jobbik Group, but the initiative of the Jobbik and the United Left to examine, as János Volner said, the responsibility of socialist governments. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: That's why you're where you are!]] If someone thinks that this company will investigate the responsibility of socialist governments, then, I think, they are wrong, on the other hand, the Parliament has set up a subcommittee to investigate those responsible for the broker scandals. [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] [[Dr. István Józsa intervenes.]] This sub-Committee on Broker Scandal started its operation yesterday, by the way (Dr. István Józsa intervenes.) Jobbik is also able to participate, so all parliamentary parties have the opportunity to participate in the investigation of those responsible for the broker scandals. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] Of course, let us not lose sight of the fact that justice, in particular, the judiciary, is entitled to determine responsibility, because I agree with Congressman Volner that serious crimes have taken place here. So let us not lose sight of the role of Parliament and the role of justice in this matter. According to the news, both the Buda-Cash-broker scandal and the Quaestor-broker scandal have been prosecuted, several suspects have been arrested in advance, and huge amounts of assets have already been closed as insurance measures in this case. And last but not least, I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the House Rule of Parliament, the House Rule of Decisions, according to which the examination of the committee of inquiry should not extend to the examination of a matter which is the subject of pending criminal, criminal, civil or administrative proceedings. So beyond Jobbik's association with the united left, [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Their proposal is even against house rules, as it violates the principle of power-sharing; in a case in which the judiciary has already initiated its independent investigation, Parliament cannot investigate. This is, by the way, a rule that is, of course, regulated for committees of inquiry in all countries with similar constitutional arrangements. Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Those who would be mistaken once again that Jobbik initiated a committee of inquiry, I would not like to recall who I have not even listed from Gábor Fodor to the members of the Democratic Coalition. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I can see that the better-looking Members are also shouting these names in outrage. [[György Szilágyi: You should have signed the Fidesz! Why didn't you sign it? If you don't have anything to hide, sign it.]] I understand, they're in very bad company, and obviously, before the Tapolca election, they wouldn't have told me that they were taking action with such a company in Parliament. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. György Szilágyi: Sign!]]
u2015-04-14-14	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Imre Vejkey, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also submitted a pre-meeting address entitled ISIS aggression against Christians and other minorities in the Middle East. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-14-15	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the Middle East, but above all in Iraq and Syria, extreme ISIS has been strengthened, which has created a immediate security and human rights crisis and its expansion is a threat to the international community. The aggression of ISIS is directed against all ethnic and religious groups outside the Islamic State, its main target is the Christian community, which it intends to completely destroy. It is estimated that more than 70 percent of Iraqi Christians have fled their homes, with 400 thousand remaining in the region instead of 1.8 million Christians, and more than 700 thousand Christians in Syria have been forced to leave their homeland. ISIS has also carried out a targeted cultural and religious cleansing, as part of which more than a hundred churches have already been destroyed in Iraq and Syria. The rapid expansion of ISIS and recent terrorist attacks in Europe have now put the challenges of extreme Islam at the forefront of public life and foreign policy. This includes a number of aspects, such as security policy, humanitarian affairs, migration, international finance and trade, the protection of cultural heritage, international federal systems, the protection of human rights, inter-religious and intercultural dialogue. The time has clearly come for Christian democrats to continue their efforts in the field of domestic and international action against ISIS and in order to protect persecuted communities, in particular Christians. In view of this, the National Election of the Christian Democratic People's Party decided on 21 March 2015 to condemn ISIS and to protect Christians and other persecuted minorities in the Middle East. Ladies and Gentlemen, It is unacceptable for us Christian democrats to be persecuted, murdered, beheaded, in many countries of the world only because they are Christians. On the crossroads at the Colosseum on Friday evening, Pope Francis put it this way:. The crucifixion of Christians is taking place in front of us and in the midst of the world's accomplice silence. The international community should not look silently and passively at this unacceptable crime, which puts the most fundamental human rights at risk. The international community should not look the other way. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and Gentlemen, Amazing, though, is the fact that more Christians who died for their faith in our time than have been killed in the first centuries of Christian persecution. Let us not allow hatred and exclusion to threaten innocent lives. The KDNP stands up for the persecuted and calls on extremists to stop violence immediately, to stop attacks on Christians and other minorities. Please stand up for those who are persecuted. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[9.40]]
u2015-04-14-16	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. On behalf of the Government, Minister Csaba Hende will respond. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-04-14-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In the Middle East, Middle East, there is an unimaginably cruel and bloody civil war going on with the European eye. Under the name of the Islamic State, there is a terrorist organization that denies all fundamental rights and human worth, crushing every moral order. He seeks to consolidate and maintain his power through mass genocide, open robbery, trafficking in slaves. In the areas under his control, everyone who does not comply with religious standards has become a target. In particular, Christians in the region, identified as the number one enemy by extremists, have to suffer a great deal. They burn down their houses, kill their sons, kidnap their daughters, destroy many centuries of their standing temples. This has triggered the worst wave of refugees since World War II. Because of the Syrian civil war and the brutality of the Islamic State, about 13 million people have left their homes, including the vast majority of Christians there. All of us know the miserable circumstances in which these homes, people who have lost their livelihoods live, with no hope and no future. The refugee wave presents neighbouring countries and the entire international community with an almost unsolvable situation and puts Europe, which is already facing major problems, under serious migratory pressure. While we speak out against the systematic and harsh persecution of one of the oldest Christian communities, it is with you that we are not talking about the clash between Islam and Christianity, not the East and the West, here at the same time as the values of Christians, the fundamental values of humanity, the lives and freedoms, the wealth and rights of people, the irreplaceable memories of the three thousand years of common cultural heritage of the past of mankind. We have to say it here and now: that's enough! Dear Parliament, Iraq's nations and communities are fighting for their survival, their freedom. Their call for help was heard and understood by the world. A coalition organized from over 60 countries, Christians and non-Christians, Muslims and non-Muslims together, are fighting against the cruel tyranny of the Islamic State. About 2,800 air strikes in Iraq and Syria since August 2014 by the US-led military coalition have seriously weakened the Islamic State, and the Iraqi army, with the offensive of the army of the legitimate Iraqi government, has taken over the city of Tikrit. Soon, the coalition's work will begin a new phase. If you give us two-thirds permission to do so, the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces will also contribute to giving the fighters in the region good training and to fighting the fanatics of the Islamic State in the hope of success and finally winning over them. While I welcome the KDNP statement and the speech before the agenda that Dr. Imre Vejkey presented so convincingly, I would also ask all the goodwill Members of this House to vote today to support our participation in this important mission. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-14-18	Thank you, Minister. Mr Antal Rogán, leader of the Fidesz faction, also spoke before the agenda on the compensation of the victims of Quaestor.
u2015-04-14-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In the case of broker scandals that have started in the last month and a half, I think that the first thing that must be stated is that it is precisely time for them to be discovered. So this is a huge difference between governments and governments, practice and practice, that during socialist governments, although we see today, these broker scandals and brokerage frauds have been going on for a long time, their reconnaissance has never been taken by anyone. On these new supervision, strengthened with the National Bank, was now able to take steps to find out that they were trying to make people's money disappear, try to steal it, often successfully do so, and now these frauds are finally ending with a decisive action. The next thing we need to talk about is what happens to the victims. I think there are two exercises here that can be put against each other. Let's look at what happened to the victims of Hajdú-Bet, Baumag or Globex, during socialist governments. Did anyone ever compensate them? Did the socialist governments or the parliamentary majority at that time take any action to compensate the victims of Hajdú-Bet, the victims of Baumag or the victims of the Globex? They didn't do anything! Those people didn't get their money today, and those responsible didn't get their punishment. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there is a huge difference in comparison to this: now that we see that the broker scandals started one after another and it's only been one and a half to two months, we are now at the point that 97 percent of the victims in the case of Buda-Cash have actually been compensated. We are concerned that the compensation procedures have started in all cases, and we are concerned that, although this case, which has been known as the Quaestor case, has been underway for just over a month now, there is an indemnification proposal on Parliament's table, which, if accepted by the honourable Parliament, can be fully compensated by the end of July for the victims, with the exception of 73 people. Ladies and gentlemen, This is a huge difference in attitude, and this is the next thing we need to talk about, and allow me to say, in this regard, why we have tabled this proposal to the honourable Parliament. I think it is because there is an institutional system that provides for the protection and insurance of investors' money or those depositing deposits in banks. This defence system also needs to be amended, and the government will make proposals on this matter to the Parliament shortly. But I think that this system has passed a good test in the case of Buda-Cash, for example, Hungária Securities Ltd. has passed a good test. in the case of Quaestor, however, there would be some flaws in the case of Quaestor. Quaestor was a titled scoundrel, my fellow Members, where for those who brought their money, it seemed to those who did something besides traditional investment activity that Quaestor was doing, as if he were collecting deposits, because, of course, Quaestor's brokerage companies were selling state bonds, they gave people the opportunity to invest in shares there, but they had a key business, the sale of bonds through which we could see that the various bonds of the group were sold with a kind of repurchase guarantee that people seemed to be a safe investment similar to bank deposits. That is why we think that it is worth creating a separate rule in this case, and that is what Parliament will decide now. The point of this rule is that, like OBA's processes, and later on to the securities limit to be raised, everyone will be compensated up to HUF 30 million. I think that this border is the border over which only 73 people are now located, according to the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's information, the 73 people who have invested significantly more than that. I think that if they want to, they can accept this money if they don't, they can represent their own interests in civil litigation, but it is a huge help for the others that, by the way, they do not have to represent their interests in civil litigation, they do so in some sense by the Compensation Fund, and they don't have to wait for their money, but the rest of the financial sector lends it to them, and they will wait for their money until the end of the civil trial, otherwise. And let us add, ladies and gentlemen, that - I think - it is absolutely fair, because we are also bringing the Hungarian National Bank into this circle, which will have an obligation to advance the contribution of the banks, to spread the burden and, at the same time, to do the compensation in good time. I would therefore like to ask my fellow Members, in the same way that, when they supported the departure from house rules, they also support the adoption of the bill here in this House, together with amendments or amendments. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-14-20	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will respond.
u2015-04-14-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Congressman, Mr. Team Leader, The elimination of decades of financial corruption is a very serious task for several public organisations, but also for the Parliament. [[9.50]] So far, serious work has been done by the judicial authorities, the police and the prosecution, as, despite all the rumors, suspects and suspected perpetrators have not left the country, they have not been able to dispose of the evidence, although the daily news is that they have tried, they have failed, and they have not been able to save their assets in offshore companies and carry them abroad to live in great financial conditions after they have been served in prison. I believe that the steps of justice have been swift, and that this encounters the sense of justice of the people. But the Hungarian National Bank also did its work in this short period of time, since it essentially checked the entire sector in order to find out whether there are any other financial service providers, investment service providers, such as the already mentioned brokerage companies. And he is doing his job, and I think that the Parliament's pro-government faction, Fidesz-KDNP, is also very responsible, because he has now presented the second bill to the Parliament in order for the compensation to take place, all of this can be done fairly and quickly. And the government is doing its job, of course, because the government has discussed a bill for strengthening and improving the financial control system, which will soon be submitted to Parliament. And the government is doing its job in terms of compensation. Let me also say here that, according to last Wednesday's government decision, full compensation will be made for the municipal accounts held by the DRB banking group, and the government decision will be published shortly. 84 municipalities receive HUF 1 billion,919,641,000. This is essentially the amount which, at the time of the bank's collapse, at the moment of its bankruptcy, on that day, constitutes the municipality's source of money in the bank's account. So, yes, the government is paying attention to the municipalities, because it is public money, the municipalities are doing public services. It is not their fault that this bank service has been terminated overnight by a series of crimes. They trusted banks, financial service providers, savings cooperatives for decades, and I therefore believe that there is a right to intervene by the State, and therefore there must be full compensation for local authorities as regards banking services. The same is true for individuals. The National Deposit Insurance Fund has completed the compensation, since they have a total of 20 working days, more than 73,000 people have received the total amount that they have placed at the bank. And we will get to the bill that Mr.Antal Rogán presented here, which, by the way, was already discussed yesterday by the Parliament, and we are voting on it today. In this regard, I would like to remove a misconception. This law does not confer any advantage on investors and individuals invested in Buda-Cash or Hungária Zrt. This law creates exactly the same legal status, it receives compensation under the same conditions as in respect of the amounts placed at Buda-Cash or the amounts placed at Hungária Zrt. So it doesn't give them an advantage. I believe that those who have drawn up this proposal have done so very responsibly, because they have also considered that, in essence, the State's involvement is necessary for the settlement of claims, but the state, the taxpayers' money, does not have to do so, and this bill fully meets this requirement. I very much hope that today the Parliament will accept this and that the compensation for the 32,000 people can begin. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-14-22	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, The Parliamentary Act is 21. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Article I declare that Sándor Burány, Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, informed the Parliament that he has established an investigative sub-committee for the detection of government measures leading to abuses by investment firms affected by a brokerage scandal - Buda-Cash Brokerház Zrt., Hungária Érték Zrt., Quaestor Group. The subcommittee is composed of 7 members, 4 main pro-government representatives, 3 main opposition representatives. President of our colleague Lajos Szűcs. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, the Parliament must decide on a meeting matter. I have reviewed the list of speakers for today's debates, and I have concluded that T/4285. and T/4289. Mr János Latorcai, Vice-President T/2379, in the general debate on the bill number T/2379. Vice-President István Hiller wishes to speak in the general debate of the bill No. If the representatives of the Vice-Presidents speak, they shall be allowed to hold the meeting at a further stage of the debate or during the decision-making procedure only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I'm going to ask you if you see any reason why we can't decide on the two exemptions together. [[No signal.]] No one made any comments. Then I will ask the Parliament whether it will be possible for Mr János Latorcai and Vice-President István Hiller to continue to lead the meeting when negotiating and deciding on the proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted my motion. Dear Parliament, The 2012 CCV on the status of military fighters follows. a debate on the Commission's reports on the amendment of law and related legislation and on the summary amendment proposal. The submission was made in T/4030. is available on the parliamentary IT network. The Commission's proposal to amend the Defence and Police Committee as a designated committee to conclude a detailed debate on T/4030/ 39 and its report on T/4003/40. they have been granted a serial number. T/4003/37. received on a serial number. T/4003/41 of the draft amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee. by serial number and summary report by T/4003/42. is available on the website by serial number. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will be presented in the debate. For these, a total of 15 minutes is available. First, I give the floor to Mr Dénes Galambos, rapporteur of the committee, for a maximum period of eight minutes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-14-23	Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, At its meeting on 9 April 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2012 CCV on the status of military fighters. Act T/4003 amending Act T/4003 and certain related laws. Bill No. 1. [[10.00]] The amendments to the bill were discussed in advance at a five-party meeting organised by the Defence Committee, initiated by Lajos Kósa, Chairman of the Defence and Police Committee on 31 March 2015 in the general debate on the bill. As a result of the negotiations and negotiations, a 21-point amendment by the Commission for Defence and Police was drawn up, which was supported by 25 votes in favour, no votes against, with 7 abstentions. These amendments serve to clarify the norm of the bill. I would like to make a brief comment on the bill. In the context of the development of the new public service career model, the government decided to introduce in 2015 a new military career and, in this context, a reform of the salary system of the military soldiers. Of the three pillars of the public service career, the adoption of this bill will be the first to introduce a new system of promotional and closely related salaries, followed by a new system of public service housing support and, thirdly, a new system of public service insurance. The 2012 CCV on the status of military defenders is necessary in order to increase the respect of the soldiers serving the country at the cost of their lives in the framework of the new military careers. a detailed justification for the amendment of law and related laws. These are summarised in the bill and the bill. The Committee adopted the summarised amendment by 25 votes to none, with 7 abstentions. Please vote in favour of the adoption of the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-14-24	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask the author if he wishes to speak now. Minister?
u2015-04-14-25	No, later.
u2015-04-14-26	Later. Thank you very much. The speaker of the designated Defence and Police Committee will now take the floor. I give the floor to Congressman Mátyás Firtl, rapporteur of the committee, within a six-minute timeframe. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-14-27	Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform the House that, at the meeting of the National Assembly's Defence and Police Committee on 8 April 2015, the 2012 CCV on the status of military fighters discussed. Act T/4003 amending Act T/4003 and certain related laws Bill No. 1. Before the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee, as has already been said, President Lajos Kósa held a five-party consultation, where the political groups and representatives of the Ministry discussed the bill in detail and the proposals for amendments to the opposition. The bill was then presented in detail at the committee meeting by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence. The Defence and Police Committee, as a first-place committee, discussed the bill, and during the meeting there was a truly constructive debate between the opposition and the ruling parties, which lasted more than five hours. The committee, examining the bill, found that it complied with the House Rule 44. The requirements of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall apply. The Committee did not support the amendments made by its representatives, but expressed its own intention to amend them, and therefore submitted the Commission's amendment closing the in-depth debate, which includes the opposition amendment proposal. The committee closed the detailed discussion of the bill on 8 April 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, Please support T/4030. The bill, which settles the situation of Hungarian soldiers, outlines new careers and results in significant wage development for the members of the staff. With all due respect, I would like to ask you once again to support the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-14-28	Thank you very much, Congressman Mátyás Firtl. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First I give the floor to the Members who have applied in advance in writing, first I give the floor to Commission President Lajos Kósa, representative of Fidesz.
u2015-04-14-29	Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, In many of the elements of the law on the status of soldiers, it is a two-thirds law, and it is intended to settle a matter that has long been troubling the defence and the competent minister of the government. In particular, he puts forward a military career model with a long exit, a perspective that allows anyone who enters the army as a contract soldier at the age of 18-19-20 to see for the rest of his life the exit, the career opportunities that have long been lacking in the construction of the military and this professional army, and I believe that now that the economy is performing better and that the budget has the potential, this law was absolutely necessary to draw up and bring in the wallet. I am very pleased that this can take place at the beginning of the cycle. This is a law and deals with something that is in no way party-political, which is why we have chosen a method of procedure and negotiation where we have tried all the possible amendments - which are not conceptually different from the law, Hjt. its basic idea - to make it clear, though this procedure is very tiring, because the five-party consultation took almost as long as the Commission's hearing to end up with the compromise proposal that the TAB unanimously adopted. I would like to add, once again, that compromises lack elements that are conceptually different from Hjt, which lays the military career model. His basic ideas. For example, it is obviously the matter of a service pension, in which we have discussed this a lot, and it always comes up, that we have not been able to compromise, because we believe that the pension system is as good as it has been constructed by the relevant laws, and that there is no need to deviate from it in the service pension. Similar conceptual differences exist between law enforcement organisations, defence organisations and organisations operating in a highly hierarchical manner. The current system, in accordance with the Fundamental Law, will, of course, allow trade unions and employee associations to operate with such organisations, but it is undoubtedly more regulated than before. We believe that this fully complies with the relevant legislation and enables workers to protect their interests, but it is certainly different from the former trade union model, which is still largely inherited from socialism. In addition, however, I believe that a proposal has been put forward that can rightly be relied upon in the House for a relatively large scale of support, just like that of Hst., where we have come up with a similar method of procedure. There we discussed two rounds between the five factions, and then came the committee debate. This was also the case at Hjt., together with what I regret and emphasized, that the time was tight and that these negotiations had to be very tight, but I think it makes sense. And once again, these are all areas - military and law enforcement organisations - where there really is no room for party political considerations. It's a construct that really belongs to the nation. The army belongs to the nation, the law enforcement organizations belong to the nation, they must serve the nation, along with the career model and the service arrangements for them. The Hjt. not only is it setting out the career model with all its guarantee elements, but it is also trying to address other long-standing problems. [[10.10]] In particular, the fact that the community of the Hungarian nation is not only offering common money to protect, and it is using the army to formulate this, it is creating a career model, but it is also setting up a set of requirements that make it clear to those involved in the system what they need to do. It defines the periods during which grade exams are to be passed, the parameters to be met. It also outlines - of course, in line with the spirit of the career model - lateral detachments from military careers, creating access to the state's service between law enforcement organisations, soldiers, government officials and the civil servants' faculty; of course, with appropriate specialities, as everyone can obviously think that the passage can only be accomplished with specialities, such as between the military career and the government official career. But we know that it works, because those who serve in defence are not just soldiers, because there are countless civilians with civil skills and civil professions in the ministry or in the military, who, by the way, facilitates the operation of this large system, from lawyers to doctors to, say, solving logistics issues. We know that the foundation of good warfare is logistics. Logistics is also the basis for a well - functioning government or construction. In fact, they say that 90% of logistics decides, let's say, the success or failure of an operation. These lateral branches are also created by this law, and we are very happy to do so, because this is how you can imagine the whole model of life model constructions for people in the service of the state. That's why it was very important that this Hjt. Get ready. In addition, there are, of course, numerous other questions concerning the status of the army and of the soldiers. After all, everyone can obviously think that this is a complex matter from the point of view of how military positions and military ranks should be synchronised, to the point where we can settle the question that if a person can be appointed either in rank or in rank, then the conditions must also be created, if there is, for example, a restructuring or other problem, appropriate measures can be taken to ensure that the organisation can be operated flexibly, where appropriate, and if a person is appointed in a position or rank, it can be adapted. I believe that this law meets all the conditions necessary for Hungary to have a well-functioning, modern and fully capable of performing its task, which can fulfil the defence tasks, fulfil other tasks in addition to defence, which may arise from different situations of war and, of course, can also fulfil Hungary's international obligations. And here I am thinking not only of NATO, because the Hungarian Defence Office does different tasks not only in NATO, but also in the framework of both the UN and the European Commission, but also in the framework of international cooperation, not only in Hungary, but also across the border. All in all, this law provides the basis for the modern, well-functioning army, the military career model. I also said it in the general debate, and here again, for the sake of fairness, I would point out that, at the same time, we cannot think that we can sit back and do everything we can for our part, and that the system will work well from now on. It is quite obvious that, in order for the country's defence capabilities to function at an appropriate level, there is also a need for adequate development, which the Hungarian Government also agreed at the NATO Summit in Wales. Of course, it would have been good if we had done this from the beginning of our NATO membership. However, we broke up with the method of using budget tricks such as those of the previous governments, for example, that pension payments from retired soldiers were booked as a defence expense, in order to make it seem okay to look at statistical numbers. This has, by the way, been added to the defence spending appropriations within the budget, but everyone knows that if we pay a pension to a retired soldier, it can, of course, be accounted for as a military expenditure, although this is not entirely appropriate within the framework of the Public Finance Act and especially Eurostat, but that does not affect the country's defence capabilities in any way, that is for sure. Because the pension system is a pension system, military expenditure is a military expense. So we broke up with this tradition, because it was an illegal and irregular procedure, but we did realize that we did not only undertake wage development and the career model, but that the Hungarian Parliament did not have such an obligation in the annual budgetary laws in accordance with the Welsh commitments or declaration - because, contrary to public opinion, it is worth stressing here that the so-called military expenditure of 2 percent of GDP is more of an expectation, but there is no such international obligation, NATO membership does not have such an obligation, it is a directive rather than an obligation - well, regardless of this, the Hungarian Government has undertaken to reach this 2 percent in the medium term, i.e. in the cycle after 2020. Until then, it increases military spending every year. It was also possible to increase this in this budget year, not by using the same trick they used earlier, but by increasing primary military expenditure. It's a small step, we'll have to stick to it. If we can do this, we can tell from the development of helicopter capabilities through wage development to the development of other capabilities, armored firepower, artillery and other capabilities that we have done in the literal sense that we have required the safety of the country and the Hungarian people. This is a task that needs to be done in the long term, and every year you have to pay attention to it; of course, not beyond the blanket that the budget means. But I think it's the HJ. At the same time, it creates the conditions that this military development will certainly not be a bag of money spilling out of it, and in fact, the skills will not grow. I would like to thank the Minister and his colleagues for their work. I know that sometimes it's unusual - how should I put it - because we sat here in Parliament and in committee until late in the evening, but I think that's what we do, and it's worth it, because I believe that the bill is good. I ask the fellow Members to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-14-30	Thank you, President of the Commission, Lajos Kósa. The next pre-notified speaker was Ms Márta Demeter, MSZP.
u2015-04-14-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that we agree that one of the pillars of the greatest strength, value and effectiveness of the Hungarian Defence Forces is the persistent and committed work of the staff. They are soldiers and military workers who devote their lives to serving the country, and they live in it for the safety of Hungarian people and Hungarian families. Clearly, they deserve respect for this work. Now, after five years, it can be seen that the government has finally recognised what we have emphasised many times, and many of us have stressed that material appreciation is indeed an extremely important pillar of the future, working capacity and efficiency of the stock. It is natural that, both legally, financially and in terms of working conditions, and in terms of perspective, a framework in which they can deliver the best performance is put together. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that wage increases are a very important pillar. It is natural that the MSZP supports the wage increase, because we have been fighting for a long time to achieve this. In addition, we call on the government to pay the same attention to improving working conditions and creating perspectives. In addition to the wage increase, I would like to highlight one more positive point, that the bill essentially eliminates the classic upward and outward system. [[10.20]] Therefore, in the future, as President Kósa has said, it is possible to keep the staff members in office and to continue working there in the future by taking graduation exams. But we cannot go without saying what is very typical of Fidesz and their governance is that a positive element is regularly inserted into an imperfect system, and very often they do not deal with the shortcomings of this system, the anomaly of this law, and certainly not with what you yourself caused after 2010. So, along this line, we still have our expectations, and our amendments - which, by the way, we have often discussed late at night - continue to be maintained, since unfortunately they were not supported by the committee and the wallet. Our expectations are as follows. There is indeed a need for a proper pension system, and it is necessary for those people to be honoured, to have their retirement status restored, who have been deprived of it precisely by you, and there will always be a debate between us - I say this to my colleague Kosa - as long as this is the case, and they will not change it. It remains a matter of principle, and we maintain our expectation that trade unions' reduced licenses should be returned, that they have made it extremely difficult to keep them and that they have cut these licenses. It is a very important element and an important expectation, in addition to the fact that a wage development is now being made to think about those people - about 6,000 people, about a quarter of the army's population - who are in the status of civil servants. They will not receive a wage increase as a public servant, although they are the ones who are also performing very important tasks in the teams, and they are those who, partly because of the fluctuations and lack of stock, are engaged in essential tasks with the soldiers to ensure that the system remains operational and that it is functioning at all today, I think it is largely due to this. The concrete amendments, which we continue to insist on, are as follows. We consider it a matter of principle that those who were exempted after 1 January 2012 for health or psychological reasons should receive at least the benefit of the service, since they are the ones who are out of the system without basically receiving any benefits. It is still not possible to agree that the Minister, in a regulation, may set a higher multiplier than the law for those in charge of senior management duties, and in this connection, not to mention what is also in the law, that the Minister may at any time move the colonelial general leaders. It is a matter of principle and we continue to insist that those who undertake a voluntary operational reserve service and are currently entitled to duty do need to maintain the availability fee. We also insist that it should be possible for the stock to decide whether it intends to redeem overwork in the future with money, remuneration or spare time. So we will continue to maintain these, please support these amendments. I would also like to emphasise once again the importance of raising wages, and also the fact that it is welcome that the government has finally reached its point of implementation. We really hope he does. That is precisely why, since there are two-thirds passes that are formal issues, we will vote for them, because we do not want the wage increase to depend on it for a moment, so that you do not give, so that it may be destroyed later. We know government policy, by the way, and I think that we need to be sure on this issue, and that the stock should receive this increase in wages. So we will support these. And the yes for the law is only for the wage increase. This wage increase is what I think is basic. We know very well that there has been no salary improvement since 2008, and we know very well that nothing has happened in the last five years in order to increase the appreciation of the stock. We very much hope that this will happen, which is why we support this. Once again, I would like to point out that improving working conditions and ensuring perspective is also an extremely important task. What we continue to maintain, and we will also try to stimulate the government's thinking, and keep these matters on the agenda, is that the wage increase of civil servants must also be resolved in any way, the anomalies that are currently contained in the law, must be modified in any way, the rights and opportunities of trade unions must be dealt with, because there is a need for a strong organisation of interest representation. We will continue to initiate these in the future in the form of legislative amendments and amendments. If the government does not improve these at a later stage, it is natural that a later government, after the Orbán era, will all improve them and create a law of service that, in addition to the actual appreciation, will improve the things that the Orbán Government has done that are extremely unfairly - and I am also thinking about the pension system - will all improve them. Of course, wage increases are welcome, which is why we will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-14-32	Thank you, Congresswoman Márta Demeter. The next announced speaker was Ms Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP.
u2015-04-14-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment of the Law on the Status of Patriots is part of a process in which the government seeks to address in part the serious problems faced by the public professions, government officials, a professional member of law enforcement agencies and the military. There are some problems in which the government is burdened with failure, such as a long-term failure to develop salaries or a burden due to a shortage of staff, and therefore a significant over-service obligation that has become general. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] But there are also some that the government has a heavy responsibility for developing. Such is the withdrawal of the service pension of soldiers and law enforcement workers who have become medically or psychologically unfit in connection with their service relationship, and the disorder of the situation of those who have come to such a fate. The government therefore also sets as a sound goal the creation of a career model, the attractiveness of the military career, which cannot be agreed with, but it is important to see that the first steps here should also start with the elimination of the state of bliss, the admission of previous mistakes and omissions. The achievement of the salary increase is therefore not a charitable donation from our generous government, but a long-lost measure that is essential for maintaining the functioning of the system. The point of the proposal, which is why the LMP finally supports the proposal, is that it is seeking to settle a decade-long debt by restructuring the salary system and raising salaries. Besides, I can't afford not to say what the LMP doesn't agree with. There are several references in the proposal's explanatory memorandum to the future enlargement of the army, such as the reasons why there will be no need to impose an over-service and the need to be redeemed in money. We believe that there is more than enough government promises to accept the adoption of a waiver or limitation based on a future government promise does not seem wise today. The LMP supports that the over-service can be redeemed in the future, not only during a transitional period. We cannot accept the government's justification that the increased salary would cover what an over-service that might be incurred could mean, as this could make a significant difference between the performance of over-serviced and non-participant soldiers, which their salary does not follow. [[10.30]] Similarly, we find it odd that the law refers to the obligation to meet ethical requirements that will not be defined until later. When the law is adopted, it does not matter at all what content that rule system will have and how strictly it limits the personal rights of the military. For the future, it is of the utmost importance to ensure the proper conditions for the protection of interests and trade union activities, to abolish the service pension and to resolve the situation of civilians who have become unfit for health or psychic reasons. The government should admit that it was a serious mistake to eliminate an important element of the career of an entire professional order and to make law enforcement and defence officers who, as a result of their health loss, have been reduced in their capacity as a scapegoat, necessarily accompanied by serious psychic and physical stress jobs, so that society can adopt a severely restrictive provision. It is clear from the government's decision on careers that the problem exists, since why else would the decision try to develop an insurance model so that health-damaged law enforcement workers and defence officers in their service do not fall into a gap due to the loss of service due to medical inadequacy. You know as well as we do that a police or military career cannot be based on uncertainty and there is a need for increased protection. The only thing they should accept now is that this is the easiest way to do it through social security, and therefore there is no need to develop all kinds of business models. Finally, the LMP will support the proposal in view of the need to raise salaries. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-04-14-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, notary. The next speaker is Congressman Gábor Staudt, Jobbik.
u2015-04-14-35	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, For a few reasons, I would like to say very briefly the Jobbik's position. Of course, the wage increase is also something to be supported by us, which, by the way, concern not two-thirds of the law, but more than 50 percent of the law, so they require a simple majority. In this connection, I would like to say that we do not yet see exactly what this will mean in practice. 'Cause it's okay for the Ministry of Defence to talk about a 30 percent wage increase, Minister, but how predictable it will be and how much it will be uniformly validated within the stock, or perhaps, let's say, to the leaders, it will be decided by the practice, or we will see it in practice. However, we would like to hear the Minister's reply on this point that it will affect the members of the staff to the same extent, even if it would be good if their increase in wages were higher, because it is precisely that the leaders have been in a better position so far, such as the senior officers, and in the case of the members of the stock, we have seen that they were affected by the greater emigration, the greater fluctuations. Yes, Minister, it has to be read, but the problem is often in practice and in detail. So here in the committees and in Parliament we are talking about certain issues, but when people come to live on it and say that it didn't happen the way they promised... - it was a lot of things, I don't want to bring any other subjects here, even in the case of a pension increase, it was this or even the possibility of women retiring for 40 years. Of course, you can retire, but even things that were premeditated were taken out. So the citizens of Hungary know very well that not everything happens many times, as the government said in the slogans in Parliament. So please try to keep that in mind. We do not think it is good either, and this has also been said by the speakers before me that contract veterans are not properly valued by the law, perhaps saying that contract veterans in the army are undesirable. Correct me, Minister, if that's not the case. It should be pointed out that contract veterans will be valued in the army in the future. One more thing we have said in the general debate is that of the code of ethics that will be introduced in the future. So, in fact, we are giving the government and the Ministry a rubber rule, a rubber legislative opportunity, that it will be able to lay down rules that are incompatible, that may be unworthy of the soldiers, and that not only during their duties, but also - and this greater problem - may affect their private time, their activities as individuals. This is not good because it makes the system unpredictable and it makes it easy to modify, because, let's say, a ministerial decree can be made now, and then next week it can be amended, and even a government or minister of defence at all can change it more easily than it would be possible to do in the law. So we believe that so far perhaps private activities have not been covered so much by this regulation, this conflict of interest, and in the future we do not see exactly what this will cover, given that these rules, the rules of ethics, are not found in the details, and at the moment this code may not even be accepted if I can remember your rejoinder to Minister, what he said here in the general debate. So, all in all, of course, we support the increase in wages, and we also support the increase in the amount spent on defence. Of course, this can be spent well, and it can be spent effectively and less effectively. For us, the defence must play a role, not only in the professional direction, but also as a form of social education. We could even think of raising young people here, and we would have to take on a movemental character for the military, and that would be exactly what would justify its social appreciation, because, unfortunately, it's still... To say that we are very far from Western countries or even the United States where soldiers are valued by citizens, not just the state, not just the government, but also the individual citizens. This is the direction we should go. This may be a step in the right direction, but we have not yet achieved the goal, so I ask the Minister to go further along the way and make these issues clear. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-04-14-36	Thank you, Congressman Staudt. I would like to ask the Honourable Parliament whether anyone else wishes to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining time frame. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I will give the floor to Minister Csaba Hende, who wishes to respond to what has been said. You have a ten-minute time frame at your disposal.
u2015-04-14-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, First of all, let me recall a moment more than 20 years ago before the vote. In December 1993, the first freely elected parliament after the regime change created the first comprehensive defence code, the 1993 Defence Act. At that time, I was involved in the drafting and conciliation of the law as the head of the legal department of the Ministry of Defence, and I was extremely pleased with the vote at that time, because there was only 1 vote against, and we adopted that law by a majority of over 99 percent. All this has clearly demonstrated that the parties in the Parliament at that time did indeed consider the matter of defence as a national matter over parties. And if there is any encouraging historical continuity, then today's debate, today's speeches, will prove the same and give us hope that the things of our country may also be decided, in agreement and in a constructive debate, between the walls of this House, in a way that will anticipate the outcome of today's debate. I very much support the adoption of the outcome of the 1993 debate, which is even more than that, i.e. without a vote against. I am very grateful for this, for all those involved in this day, the day on which we are creating a new system, the 21st. We create the system of the Hungarian Defence Service, the entire case of defence and the soldiers serving in the Hungarian Defence Service. [[10.40]] Because it is so, Honourable Parliament, that the effectiveness of an armed force, of an army, and thus the ability to defend the country depends on many things: it depends on the equipment, it depends on the weaponry, it depends on the system, which is also dependent on the logistics - the importance of which President Kósa has so excellently demonstrated - its part and much more. But the most important and decisive part, Honourable Parliament, is the man himself, the soldier, with the well-trained, disciplined, devoting, ethical and self-sacrifice of courage, the soldier serving his country. It is about this soldier today and this vote today, and I hope for his very high acceptance. I would like to thank all those involved in the drafting of the law, my own colleagues, but I would like to thank President Lajos Kósa, members of the various party positions of the Defence and Police Committee, for the extremely deep and very constructive, constructive professional debate that they had held before the adoption of the law, and, as a result, the Commission's amendment which, of course, the Government fully supports and asks that the bill be voted together. I thank all the speakers for their support and the opposition for their critical speeches. It is very important to know the issues in which we disagree, because the clearer and more valuable is that what we agree on is indeed a national matter over parties, and this day is the appreciation of the Hungarian soldier. Those who must be thanked are the government and, in turn, the Parliament, because the more than 10 billion forints required for this year's salary increase from 1 July to 31 December will be made available to us by the government within the budget voted by Parliament. So, of course, this money is there, and this is what the congresswoman knows; obviously, Márta Demeter asked me as a rhetorical question whether this salary increase would be possible or a salary increase. Well, they're gonna vote on it now. Of course, it will happen, because it will be bound by law by the government, and the necessary money will be available. I would like to thank President Kósa for his commendable words, and I will forward them to my colleagues, of whom the most important people in the work are now sitting in the expert box. I also thank the fellow Members and the factions for their support. I just need to ask you a few more questions. I would say to Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, if she were here, obviously it's important...
u2015-04-14-38	He's here!
u2015-04-14-39	Oh, I'm sorry. My apologies to my colleague. He's sitting up on the bench. For a long time, he was talking about unpaid salary development, which is not a generous donation, but a decade-old debt. Indeed, our soldiers have long deserved this increase in wages, and it is enough to highlight only their standing in the years behind us during the Red Sludge Disaster and the Great Danube Flood and in other missions in Afghanistan and Afghanistan. But you also know, my fellow Member, that the last significant gross 100 percent salary increase was carried out in 2002 by the first Orbán government, and then, in the next eight years, there was no one penny increase? So when you're talking about decades of failure, I'm guessing you're aware of the person who raised the soldiers' salary and who's going to raise it again. It seems to be a matter of detail, but with regard to the remuneration of overtime, I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that the bill is contained in Article 34. §2 of the Act clearly regulates that with the new allowance for recognition of performance, the monetary consideration for extra work can be recognised, so that should not be a problem. I have to say to my fellow Member, Mr Staudt, in a somewhat festive way, that the bill must be read. In the bill, in the explanatory statement, but in all the statements made on the bill, we made it clear that the increase in salaries in each stock category will be quite different: on average, the increase in salary is 30 per cent, which means that the wage weight will increase by this amount, which the soldiers of the Hungarian Army will receive. You're talking about what's going to happen here when the generals and senior officers get a higher percentage than the lower rank. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Yes.]] He's nodding, that's what he said. This, please, is a degree of ignorance and ignorance that calls for heaven, because it is clearly in the bill - and we have said this a hundred times - that there will be a difference in the percentage allowance. For example, members of the general's faculty will now receive a salary increase of five percent. The staff as a whole, including all senior officers, shall receive an average salary increase of 15 per cent. Petty officers, i.e. the backbone of the force, who carry the entire army on their backs, will receive a 38 percent salary increase from 1 July. And the army of contract soldiers will receive an average increase of 25 percent. So you're making up here on the ceiling or on the wall of Parliament that didn't stand up for a moment, and I don't understand where you get such nonsense. You did not read the proposal and did not follow the debate. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: I was here in the debate!]] So what you object to is in the bill. Well, these percentages are predictable and these rates are from the multipliers and the different tables! So what you're missing is in the law, and it's in it, like I said. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: What are they taking from them?]] At the same time, contract veterans are undesirable in the military, he says. Now, there's no such thing in the bill, no contract veteran, as such, doesn't exist, so you're talking nonsense in that regard. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: The Minister doesn't understand...]] The previous question is in the law, and it's not in the law at all. Now, the issue of the Code of Ethics has been raised by many. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I'll finish in a moment, Mr. President. Of course, there is no arbitrary nature, we are talking about a constitutional mandate for regulation, we cannot regulate everything at the statutory level. According to the constitutional practice of the Constitutional Court, civil rights can only be limited in fundamental terms by law. [[The president's ringing again.]] So there is no risk of autocracy in this regard. Thank you again for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-14-40	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, In accordance with our agreed agenda, decisions start at 11:10 p.m. at the earliest, so I take a break of 11:00 p.m. for 10 minutes. [[Break: 10.48 11.22President: Dr. János Latorcai Tickets: Attila Gelencsér and Nándor Gúr]]
u2015-04-14-41	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask everyone, Minister, to take your place in the horseshoe, to check that your card has been properly placed. We're switching to decisions. Next up is the 2000 XLII on water transport. Final vote of the bill amending the law. Since the Commission's proposal to amend the proposal to close a detailed debate has not been tabled and the procedure of the Legislative Committee has not been initiated, we are now deciding on the original text of the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4016. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 161 votes in favour, 4 against and 31 abstentions. It follows a final vote on the Convention on the establishment of the International Investment Bank, signed in Moscow on 10 July 1970, as amended on 20 December 1990, and on the Protocol amending the Convention, and on the draft law on the publication of notifications to become a Party to the Protocol. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled and no committee has been included in the debate, we are therefore deciding on the original text of the bill in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/4034 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 134 votes in favour, 39 against and 23 abstentions. It follows that a decision on the adoption of a proposal for a decision adopting a report on the activities of the Economic Competition Authority in 2013 and on the experience gained during the application of the Competition Act in the field of the enforcement of the purity and freedom of competition will be taken. I would like to inform you that, in the absence of a statement on the conduct of a related committee, an amendment proposal and a detailed debate, we will decide on the original text of the proposal for a decision. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/4033 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 129 votes in favour, 61 against and 6 abstentions. The final vote on the proposal for a decision adopting a report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2013. Since the Commission's proposal to amend the proposal to close a detailed debate has not been tabled and the procedure of the Legislative Committee has not been initiated, we are now deciding on the original text of the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/3779 accepts it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 166 votes in favour, 24 against and 5 abstentions. The 1994 LIII on judicial enforcement follows a series of steps. Final vote of the bill amending the law. On the basis of a request for a Fraction, however, we must also decide to maintain an amending proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 4 of Section T/3879/2, the LMP is the T/3879/2. The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we're voting on first. T/3879/2. Amending proposal No 1 Schiffer is a proposal from András Schiffer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 33 votes in favour, 129 against and 33 abstentions. Since the Parliament has not kept up the amendment and the Commission's amendment closing the detailed debate has not been tabled and the procedure of the Legislative Committee has not been initiated, we are now deciding on the original text of the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/3879 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 156 votes in favour, 36 against and 2 abstentions. Next up is the 2005 LXIV on the Budapest agglomeration Spatial Planning Plan. Final vote of the bill amending the law. Since the Commission's proposal to amend the proposal to close a detailed debate has not been tabled and the procedure of the Legislative Committee has not been initiated, we are now deciding on the original text of the proposal. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4026. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 129 votes in favour, 1 against and 63 abstentions. The final vote and the decision on a summary amendment to the draft law on the establishment of a claim fund to ensure the settlement of claims against Quaestor victims will now follow. The submission was made in T/4347. T/4347/10 and T4347/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, The decisions will follow. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4347/10. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 161 votes in favour, 5 against and 28 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/4347 accepts it. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended bill by 185 votes to five, with no abstentions. [[11.30]] Next up is the 2013 CII on fish management and the protection of fish. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission was made in T/3785. was available to all of them. T/3785/17 and T/3785/18. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 4 of Section T/3785/11 of the LMP, the LMP is the T/3785/11. Amendment No 7 to Amendment No 3, Jobbik proposed that amendments T/3785/4, 7 and 9 be maintained. I would also like to inform you that Jobbik's motion for reservation contains a write-off error, but in the light of the announcement at its meeting, we will decide on the motion for reservation as originally intended. T/3785/11. István Ikotity and R. Benedek Sallai put forward a proposal in the proposed amendment. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 33 votes in favour, 157 against and 6 abstentions. The T/3785/4. The amendment proposed by Zoltán Magyar és Vágó Sebestyén is an alternative to the amendment No 9. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains Amendment 4. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment with 30 votes in favour, 160 against and 6 abstentions. The T/3785/9. The amendment proposed by Zoltán Magyar and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 162 against and four abstentions. The T/3785/7. Amendment No 1 tabled by Zoltán Magyar. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 23 votes in favour, 159 against and 14 abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the Government initiated a separate vote on point 2 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on this and then we will decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. In point 2 of the summarised amendment proposal, the committee proposed a new 4th amendment to the bill. In addition, the Commission proposed to include Article 5 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. At the request of the government, we will decide separately. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this proposal requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 2 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept the amendment point by 30 votes in favour, 134 against and 32 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 3 and 4, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts points 3 and 4 of the summarised amendment. Please vote now by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted points 3 and 4 of the summary amendment by 159 votes in favour, 5 against and 32 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3785/17. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 189 votes in favour, 5 against and 2 abstentions. In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the cardinality provision of the bill defines the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3785. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the qualified majority of the amended bill by 159 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 33 abstentions. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3785. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 158 votes in favour, 5 against and 33 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows a decision and a final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain laws relating to the management of public land assets. The submission was made in T/3788. was available to all of them. T/3788/11 and T/3788/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group is the T/3788/3. This is what we first decide to do. T/3788/3. The amendment proposed by István Ikotity and R. Benedict Sallai. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] In accordance with paragraph 3 of this Article, the group of the LMP Group shall be the T/3788/3. This is what we first decide to do. T/3788/3. The amendment proposed by István Ikotity and R. Benedict Sallai. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 67 votes in favour, 127 against and three abstentions. [[11.40]] As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that point 5 of this Decision requires a qualified majority decision, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3788/11. Point 5 of the proposed amendment. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept the qualified majority point of the summary amendment by 129 votes in favour, 63 against and 5 abstentions. [[It's a rare applause.]] I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3788/11. A simple majority of the points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 128 votes in favour, 69 against and without abstentions. In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the cardinality provision of the bill defines the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3788. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not accept the qualified majority of the amended bill by 125 votes in favour, 71 votes in favour and no abstentions. Now I respectfully ask the Minister whether he wishes the house rules to be set at 50. Paragraph 3 of this Article provides for a recess. [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas: The three of us voted in favour. Csaba Hende: I voted in favour.]] Unfortunately, we don't have two thirds by 126. Minister Varga too? [[Mihály Varga: I voted in favour too!]] I'd like to ask the notaries for a quick count of 127 yes votes on the front. [[A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions. For signal:]] So from the present 196 - so many of us present - 131 is two-thirds, so we do not have the two votes. So it's still... I ask Minister Fazekas that the house rules are 50. § 3 of the Rules of Procedure requires a trial break. [[On the signal of Dr. Sándor Fazekas:]] Yes, please, I would like to order a trial break by asking my fellow Members to remain disciplined in their seats, because we may be able to resume the meeting within minutes. [[It's a short break.]] Dear fellow Members, I told you we could continue in minutes, so take your seats, because we're going to resume the session. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the rapporteur in writing is T/3788/15. The Commission initiated the postponement of the final vote under number 1. [[Sallai R. Benedict: Retract them!]] Congressman, when the time comes, I'll give you the opportunity to speak up. I now give the floor to Minister Sándor Fazekas in a five-minute time frame. [[On the signal of Dr. Sándor Fazekas:]] He doesn't want to take advantage of it. [[Noise, interruptions.]] Dear Parliament, House rules are 51. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, Parliament decides to postpone the final vote without debate. I ask you, on the basis of your initiative, will the T/3788 be postponed. Final vote of bill No 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] Parliament shall decide to postpone the final vote on the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article without debate. I ask you, on the basis of your initiative, will the T/3788 be postponed. Final vote of bill No 1. Please vote. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the final vote was postponed by 128 votes in favour, 43 votes in favour and one abstention. It is now up to the decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill on the service relationship of professional staff of law enforcement bodies and the final vote. The submission was made in T/3783. was available to all on the IT network. T/3783/64. and T/3783/65. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[11.50]] Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group: T/3783/52, /54. and /57. Amendment 3 to the Jobbik Group on T/3783/8. /16. and /18. No.3 and the MSZP Group on T/3783/29, /31. and /40. The Committee proposed that amendments be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. T/3783/52. Amending proposal No 1 Schiffer is a proposal from András Schiffer. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 29. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament maintained the amendment by 69 votes in favour, 127 votes in favour and 1 abstention. T/3783/29. Amendment No 1 proposed by Congresswoman Márta Demeter. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 44 votes in favour, 130 votes in favour and 23 abstentions. T/3783/54. Proposal No.2 Schiffer András's proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 38 votes in favour, 130 votes in favour and 29 abstentions. T/3783/57. Schiffer is also proposed by András Schiffer. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 44 votes in favour, 130 votes in favour and 23 abstentions. T/3783/8. Amendment No 1 tabled by Ádám Mirkóczki and János Volner. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament maintained the amendment by 27 votes in favour, 163 votes in favour and 6 abstentions. T/3783/16. Amendment 3 also proposed by Ádám Mirkóczki and János Volner. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 129 votes in favour and 37 abstentions. T/3783/18. The amendment was also proposed by Ádám Mirkóczki and János Volner. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 60 votes in favour, 130 votes in favour and 7 abstentions. T/3783/31. Amendment No 1 proposed by Márta Demeter and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 44 votes in favour, 153 votes in favour and no abstentions. T/3783/40. Proposal No. 1 The proposal of Márta Demeter and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 66 votes in favour, 130 votes in favour and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that paragraphs 127 and 129 of this Decision require a qualified majority decision, the decision will be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3783/64. Point 127 and 129 of the proposed amendment. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 183 votes in favour, 7 votes in favour and 7 abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3783/64. A simple majority of the points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment proposal by 154 votes in favour, 7 with no votes and 36 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the T/3783/69. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the vote will take place again in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3783/69. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the qualified majority part of the single proposal by 188 votes in favour, with 3 votes against and 6 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3783/69. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the simple majority of the single proposal by 188 votes in favour, with 2 votes against and 7 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The 2012 CCV on the status of military fighters follows. and the final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain related laws. The submission was made in T/4030. Number 2 was available on the IT network. T/4003/41, the summary report of the Legislative Committee's amendment is T/4003/42. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the Jobbik Group is T/4030/10, /29. and /31. and the MSZP Group are T/4030/20, /23. and /26. The Committee proposed that amendments be maintained. That's what we decide first. T/4003/10. The amendment proposed by Ádám Mirkóczki and Gergely Kulcsár presents a proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament maintained the amendment by 54 votes in favour, 134 votes in favour and nine abstentions. [[12.00]] T/4003/29. Mr Mirkóczki and Mr Gergely Kulcsár also make a motion. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 129 against and 11 abstentions. T/4003/31. The amendment was also tabled by Ádám Mirkóczki and Gergely Kulcsár. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 28 votes in favour, 129 against and 40 abstentions. T/4030/20. Amendment No.2 The proposal of Márta Demeter and Tamás Attila Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 130 against and 3 abstentions. T/4003/23. The amendment proposed by Márta Demeter and Tamás Attila Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 41 votes in favour, 152 against and 3 abstentions. T/4003/26. Motion by Márta Demeter and Tamás Attila Harangozó. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 40 votes in favour, 153 against and three abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that point 20 of this Decision requires a qualified majority decision, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4003/41. Point 20 of its summary amendment proposal. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the point requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 188 votes in favour, 2 against and 7 abstentions. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4003/41. A simple majority of the points of the summary amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 160 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 35 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The final vote follows. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/4003/45. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will again take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/4003/45 will accept it. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the qualified majority part of the single proposal by 165 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 30 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/4003/45 will accept it. Part of the single proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the simple majority-claiming parts of the single proposal by 166 votes in favour, 2 against and 29 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It follows the decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment to the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in international action against the Islamic State terrorist organisation. The submission is H/4027. was available to all on the IT network. The summary amendment proposed by the Legislative Committee is based on the summary report of H/4027/9 H/4027/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. According to paragraph 4 of Section H/4027/3 of the MSZP Group. The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we'll decide first. I would like to inform you that pursuant to Article 47 (2) of the Fundamental Law, the amendment and adoption of the resolution proposal requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. H/4027/3. Amendment No 1 tabled by József Tobias and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 35 votes in favour, 153 against and 9 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts H/4027/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 137 votes in favour, 56 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/4027/12. A single proposal. Please vote by two thirds of all present. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 137 votes in favour, 57 against and without abstentions. Following the 2008 XLVI on the food chain and its official supervision. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission is T/3750. was available to all of them on the IT network. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/3750/6, and its summary report T/3750/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Noise.]] Ladies and gentlemen, There's not much time left. I need some peace and attention. [[The Foreman of Novak: three years!]] Now it's time for the decisions. From the vote, Mr President Novak, from the vote, we will discuss the rest. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section T/3750/2 of the LMP Group, The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we'll decide first. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 37 votes in favour, 118 against and 28 abstentions. [[12.10]] As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3750/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 148 votes, 9 against and 28 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3750/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 151 votes to 7, with 29 abstentions. Next up is the 2007 CXXIX on the protection of agricultural land. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission is T/3753. was available to all on the IT network. A summary of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/3753/7 and T/3753/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The decisions will follow. We will decide on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3753/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 151 votes to 151, 6 against and 31 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3753.9. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 145 votes to seven, with 34 abstentions. It follows from the 1996 LV on the protection of the game, game management and hunting. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission is T/3754. was available to all of them. T/3754/10 of the Legislative Committee's proposal and its summary report T/3754/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The decisions will follow. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group is the T/3754/4. Group Nos 5 and MSZP Group Nos T/3754/3. The Commission proposed to maintain the amendment. That's what we're gonna decide first. The T/3754/4. István Ikotity and R. Benedek Sallai. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 3. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal number 4. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 65 votes in favour, 117 against and 6 abstentions. The T/3754/3. Amending proposal No. 1 The proposal of Zoltán Gőgös and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 43 votes in favour, 121 against and 23 abstentions. The T/3754/5. István Ikotity and R. Benedict Sallai proposed amendments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 39 votes in favour, 122 against and 27 abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3754/10. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 151 votes in favour, 4 against and 33 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3754/12. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 146 votes in favour, 4 against and 39 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Next up is the XXXVII of 2009 on forest, forest protection and forestry. a decision on a proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending law and a final vote. The submission was made in T/3755. was available to all of them. T/3755/11 and T/3755/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The decisions will follow. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group is T/3755/4. Amendment Nos 5 and 5 were initiated. That's what we're gonna decide first. The T/3755/4. István Ikotity and Mr Sallai R. Benedek's proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 62 votes in favour, 122 against and 5 abstentions. The T/3755/5. István Ikotity and R. Benedek Sallai. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 65 votes in favour, 121 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, As no amendments have been retained by my fellow Members, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3755/11. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 148 votes in favour, 4 against and 33 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3755/13. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 170 votes to four, with 10 abstentions. It is now up to the decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the bill amending certain laws relating to real estate registers and surveying and the final vote. The submission was made in T/3786. was available to all of them on the IT network. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/3786/8, and its summary report T/3786/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The decisions will follow. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group is T/3786/3. Amendment Nos 4 and 4 were proposed to continue. That's what we decide first. T/3786.3. István Ikotity and R. Benedict Sallai are proposed. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 10 votes in favour, 137 against and 33 abstentions. [[12.20]] T/3786/4. István Ikotity and R. Benedek Sallai are also proposed. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 10 votes in favour, 168 against and 5 abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of § 6, the Government initiated a separate vote on point 6 of the summary amendment proposal. First, we will decide on this and then we will decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. In point 6 of the summary amendment proposal, the Committee amends the regulation of the rights to be entered in the real estate register on its own initiative. We'll decide at the government's request. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 6 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept the amendment point by 30 votes in favour, 121 against and 32 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/3786/8. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 137 votes in favour, 10 against and 35 abstentions. Dear Parliament, It is now the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment proposal, in the final vote we will decide on the text of the bill which has been amended with the agreed points of the summarised amendment proposal. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/3786. Changed bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended version of the single proposal by 139 votes in favour, 11 against and 32 abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to ask you whether the Honourable Parliament will consider the amendment of certain laws required by Congressman Gábor Staudt, in order to protect victims of crime and their relatives more effectively, T/3756. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 58 votes in favour, 119 against and four abstentions. I ask you whether you will be included in the series of articles H/3840 on public disclosure of state security documents by independent representatives Zsuzsanna Szelényi and Szabolcs Szabó. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 65 votes in favour, 118 votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no personal decisions will be taken today. Now, in order to ensure that all my fellow Members who leave the Chamber without delay in order to carry out their official duties do so without interrupting the debate, I am ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] [[In the notary seat, Nándor Gúr will be replaced by Erzsébet Schmuck.]] Thank you very much for the patience of my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. We continue our work with general debates. The 2011 CLXV on the Civil Guard and the Rules of Civil Guard. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The independent motion of our fellow Members, Mr Márk and Mr Richárd Hörcsik, is T/3495. It is available to all of them on the IT network. I now give the floor to Mr Richárd Hörcsik, the rapporteur on the agenda, who will make his speech here on the stand. Here you go, Congressman, Mr. President.
u2015-04-14-42	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, allow me to pay tribute to the President of the National Citizens' Association, Mr András Túrós and the members of the Presidency, who are sitting in the expert box and to all my fellow vigilantes who are monitoring the general debate on the amendment of the 2011 Law on the Civil Guard and the Rules of Civil Guard. Mr President, We are well aware that the 2011 CLXV on the Civil Guard and the Rules of Civil Guard. Law 1 came into force on 1 February 2012. I believe that the experience of the last three years has clearly demonstrated that the Civil Guard Act has passed the social test, thank God, the Civil Guard has continued to operate in a regulated manner. In addition to preserving the results achieved previously, the transformation into a public body with a public benefit status has been successfully implemented and the obligation imposed by the amended legislation has been fulfilled. Thus, the Civil Guard Act has established order in the field of civil crime prevention, by the fact that only the vigilantes of the National Civil Guard Association and only the civil society associations can carry out so-called public or public crime prevention in Hungary. [[12.30]] Over the past quarter of a century, the vigilantes have been serving the common good, strengthening public order and public security, and their selfless, sacrificial activities to prevent crime, I believe that they have earned the distinction and respect provided by the law. Ladies and gentlemen, No one today disputes that public security and the creation or maintenance of public order are clearly the exclusive right and duty of the State. At the same time, in an open civil society, I believe that it is also a good goal, a kind of natural endeavour, so that citizens can volunteer to do so. Three years ago, when we adopted the Civil Guard Act, we not only defined the conditions for this cooperation and the rules for this cooperation, but we could also say that we have put into a legal framework what society itself spontaneously recognised and supported, while the government, of course, supported the operation of the associations financially. Ladies and gentlemen, As a result of this legislation, therefore, the Civil Guard under the right of association was established in March 1991, I believe that it is still a determining community organizing force. A network that operates for public security, with the greatest number of people, is truly a community-creating force. I believe that it provides an opportunity for action for people who are committed to local crime prevention and police and who feel responsible for the security of their environment, which we can all experience every day. For nearly a quarter of a century, we have seen that the vigilantes are responsible citizens who want to do something about maintaining local public order, in Hungarian, for the public safety of the place of residence, and to this end they provide voluntary service in the public interest. By the way, as a public service body, the National Civil Service Association implemented the 2011 CLXV. Nearly 2 thousand associations today perform daily sacrifices, in cooperation with the police, in cooperation with the organisations of disaster management and municipalities. We find that citizens not only respect it, not only trusting the vigilantes, but also recognizing our particular or common interests, tens of thousands of people have joined the crime prevention activities organised in the framework of the neighboring movement. Thus, the vigilante, as a non-political or party-free NGO, is a good example of the implementation of cooperation for the benefit of the common good between citizens and between public and municipal organisations. With regard to its organisational framework or the number of members and activities, the Hungarian Civil Guard, I believe, is unique in Europe, I could also say that it is a real Hungaricum, for which I would like to thank the vigilantes on this occasion. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not my place to evaluate the work of the vigilantes in this exposé, yet let me mention, for one thought, the social usefulness of this voluntary work. All we need to do is pull out the last year's statistics, when more than 50 thousand vigilantes in 2,000 associations performed 7 718 657 hours of service. This means that, translated, a vigilante averaged on an annual basis a public service corresponding to the monthly working time base on a free time basis, free of charge. If we had to forint this, let's say, the service hours would exceed HUF 8 billion. I know that the Community values of the vigilante service, the results of the crime prevention, are rather difficult to quantify, but I should note that the sacrifice of the vigilantes contributed to a significant reduction in the number of crimes, in particular the improvement in public sector indicators. I would particularly like to emphasise, as a value of the vigilante service, the moral, community-forming and security-enhancing effect with which the vigilantes contributed to improving the quality of life of citizens in 2014. I note that the common services with law enforcement agencies - I am thinking primarily of the police here - have also strengthened public confidence in them, and I also note that these have significantly increased the professional knowledge of the vigilantes and, last but not least, improved respect and trust for each other. Dear Parliament, Over the past years, the National Assembly's Defence and Police Committee has been constantly informed about the activities of the Civil Guard, has regularly received the annual information of the organization, and several times at committee meetings the Members have assessed and acknowledged the results of the Civil Guard regardless of party standing. In order to improve the conditions for more efficient and social interest and for the prevention of crime, the Committee has repeatedly proposed to increase budget support for the operation of the associations, which, I understand, has exceeded HUF 1 billion in the last year. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress that the 2011 CLXV. Law regulates vigilante activity well, yet, based on the experience of recent years, we have seen it as a matter of time before and need to amend the law. That is why we have tabled with my fellow Member, Judge Mark, an amendment to the Civil Guard Act, which, I would like to reiterate, does not change the concept of the original law, and we would like to make certain technical amendments, as a matter of fact, in order to make certain technical amendments, even to ensure that the 21st Amendment does not change the concept of the original law. Our fellow vigilantes can fully meet the challenges of the century. These are the following. One: it is necessary and necessary for future generations to be raised, I believe that it is of paramount importance that, in accordance with other legislation, we provide young people with an opportunity to continue this volunteering from 14 to 18 years of age, and that the laws of the activities of young vigilantes are laid down. We have seen many places in the last year - such as Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, or I am thinking of Hajdú-Bihar County - that those who have not yet spent the 18th year of their lives, well, for these young people too, many have been interested in the activities of the Civil Guard, especially in small villages. Well, to that end, I believe it's time to name the young vigilantes in the law and define precisely the task to be carried out for them. Secondly, in agreement with the initiative of the National Citizens' Association, we propose in the bill that we broaden the coordinating role and system of tasks of the Territorial Civil Guard Alliances. On the basis of the draft, the Territorial Civil Guard Alliances take over certain coordinating, administrative tasks, and I believe that this will facilitate the work of the National Civil Guard Association, while at the same time ensuring the natural autonomy of civil society organisations, the strengthening of their ability to regulate themselves. Thirdly, under Act V of 2013 on the new Civil Code, we know that the main body of associations can be the delegation instead of the general assembly, which in the case of such a large, national association, such as the National Civil Service Association, results in a much simpler and faster decision-making mechanism, thus making the system more transparent and faster. [[12.40]] In our case, therefore, it is necessary to clarify the current rules. Fourthly, we would like to renew the measures that can be applied in service and ethical violations. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, with this amendment of the law, the spirit, the values of the law governing the operation of the civil guard, which is based on the law of association, and the aims pursued by the legislation, I believe that they are very much in line with the national cooperation programme, thus further strengthening the range of legally involved in maintaining public order and public security. I think it's in all our interests and duties. The bill of amendment has been agreed with the National Alliance of Civil Guards. We are convinced that this proposal is socially useful and serves good purposes. I would ask my fellow Members and the Government to support the bill. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-04-14-43	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr Károly Kontra if he wishes to speak on behalf of the government. [[Contra on Charles' signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-14-44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The activities of the vigilantes and the vigilantes contribute significantly to the maintenance of Hungary's public order and public security, especially in the field of crime prevention, the vigilantes carry out effective and outstanding activities. This proposal for a law will help the civilian watch to function more effectively in the future, and the government will therefore support the proposal submitted. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-14-45	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. I would like to announce that the keynote speech of the Fidesz and KDNP groups is presented together by Mr Firtl Mátyás, in a total of 15 minutes' time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-14-46	Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is a centuries-old tradition that cities, settlements have organised a civil guard to deal with their safety or possible emergency, which has served the safety of the population and the protection of values. The formation of the Civil Guard was already included in Law 1808 in order to protect the internal security of the free royal cities. After that, the organisation of the civil guard, which was set up on a voluntary basis to carry out the public security tasks of the municipalities, was constantly strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen, The development and positive perception of the Civil Guard clearly shows that there is a need for the activities of local citizens, who work closely with the police, to protect local interests and public security. The current proposal is intended to renew the legal framework for civil protection activities in order to implement public security through civil cooperation and to assist public authorities. The bill maintains the social organisational nature of the Civil Guard, and accordingly it is essential to define the organisation system of the Civil Guard and to define the necessary conditions as a result of the law enforcement nature of their activities. In recent years, the National Civil Service Association has had too much coordination and administrative responsibility. Thus, in order to function effectively, it has been justified that territorial civil society associations also take part in each of the tasks. According to the bill, the territorial vigilantes' associations would take over certain coordinating, administrative tasks, thereby reducing the burden of the National Citizens' Association. Furthermore, the proposal ensures the autonomy of civil society organisations and their ability to regulate themselves. A new element appears in the bill the concept of a young vigilante, which settles the situation of young people between the ages of 14 and 18 who wish to participate in the activities of the vigilante. The proposal would also create a simpler and faster system of decision-making and renew the system to be applied in the event of an ethical breach. Overall, the vigilante will complete police activity and play a significant role in strengthening public security. Today, the organization has been renewed and stabilized, and its number exceeds 50,000. In our country, vigilantes have become socially accepted and respected. Hungarian citizens have recognised that it is necessary to maintain public safety and that they must actively contribute to and protect it. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz-KDNP Party Alliance supports the further development of the Civil Guard, so we support the presentation of our two fellow Members. When we support it, we thank Dr. Richárd Hörcsik and Márk Bíró for the proposal. They both have great experience in the role and significance of the Civil Guard. But here we would also like to thank the National Citizens' Association for its work so far, and we trust that they can continue their work with social respect in the future in the interests of Hungarian public security. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-04-14-47	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Tamás Harangozó, who will also speak from the platform. We'll wait for the congressman to beam up to the stand. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-14-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Over the past 20 years, the Civil Guard has made a significant contribution to strengthening the public security of many settlements, providing invaluable assistance to public police officers. The MSZP therefore expresses its appreciation for the vigilante movement. The MSZP supports any bill that meets the requirements of the rule of law that has been properly agreed and enjoys their professional agreement with civil society organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, In the summer of 2011, the National Assembly adopted the new comprehensive law governing the operation and organisation of the Civil Guards, which replaced the first Civil Guard Act created in 2006. The point of the new regulation is that the National Civil Service Association has been transformed into a public body, on which the law has also established administrative powers. The Civil Guard Association can start the basic tasks if it has concluded a cooperation agreement with the county police headquarters and is a member of the National Civil Guard Association. The transformation was supported by the National Civil Service Association, and the concept of it was also agreed by the MSZP in the debate on the bill. The MSZP also did not oppose the concept that the provision of vigilante activity should only be possible with police approval. At the same time, from a state-of-law guarantee point of view, we represented that this legislative objective should be achieved by the law, instead of or in addition to the conclusion of the cooperation agreement, through the introduction of an authorisation procedure to ensure a system of redress for administrative procedures. In addition, the MSZP has made a number of amendments, but as Fidesz has not supported any of our amendments, the MSZP ultimately did not vote in favour of this bill. The current bill before us extends the public body type of operation to county level, and accordingly, civil society associations will be obliged to become members of the territorial vigilante association operating in their area of operation. The membership of the civil society association, which meets the legal conditions, will not be refused by the association of territorial vigilantes. There can only be one territorial vigilante alliance per county and the territory of the capital. The area of operation of the association of territorial vigilantes may only extend to the administrative territory of that county. Territorial vigilantes' associations will receive part of the administrative responsibilities of the National Citizens' Association, and therefore, according to the proposal, the role of territorial vigilantes' associations will be extended to include the following. It shall give a preliminary opinion on the cooperation agreement to be concluded by the Civil Guard Association with the Police Headquarters in its field of operation. The civil society association in its territory accepts the request to join the National Citizens' Association and forwards it with its proposal for admission. [[12.50]] It adopts a report on the implementation of the annual budget of the Regional Citizen's Association and of the budget. It shall decide on applications for operating aid. This shows that regional civil society associations will also receive serious, not only administrative, but also decision-making rights and decision-making rights delegated to the national leadership. The body of the National Civil Guard Association will not be the general assembly in the future, but a delegation composed of representatives of civil society associations elected for five years and regional civil society associations. It is a completely new element of the legislation on young vigilantes, because under the current law, persons aged 18 and over can only be vigilantes. However, with limited powers, the proposal would also allow young people between the ages of 14 and 18 to participate in civil society associations. Young vigilantes will be able to contribute to the following tasks: informing citizens of the role of the vigilante; preparing reports and other documents relating to the vigilante activity; preparing for disasters; guarding and transporting drugs in the event of temporary removal; strengthening the link between accident prevention, victim protection, road safety and other public and local authorities; protecting people with disabilities in their homes, in educational, cultural and educational activities related to the duties of the Civil Guard Association. The proposal also tightens the sanctions that may be imposed on vigilantes in the event of an ethical breach, increasing the possible ceiling for disbarment from specific vigilantes from six months to one year. The National Citizens' Association can propose the termination of the civil servant's membership, which means a fairly serious extension of the sanctioning powers. Ladies and gentlemen, The main questions are the number of counties in which more than one vigilante association operates at the moment, or where there are malfunctions in order to see this proposal before the House today. As I said, it is very important for us that the National Civil Service Association itself supports the proposal. Here, from the presence and nodding of their representatives in the gallery, I can see that yes, although I would like to note that their representative at the meeting of the Defence and Police Committee has not given a straight and fair answer on this issue, in our view. We continue to maintain that one of the real reasons for this proposal - which would otherwise be admitted and fair to the members of the committee and to the parliament - is that there are indeed malfunctions with regard to the operation of the National Civil Service Association with regard to territorial organisations, namely civil society associations that may not comply with the will of the competitor or of the majority, which may not accept the operation of the public body. The bill is suitable for resolving this issue, and you know it only then, my fellow Members, would be appropriate for the rapporteur and the citizen guard concerned, who is there at the committee meeting, to say it simply and fairly before the committee, because even so the proposal can be supported. Our further comment on the proposal is that we will put forward proposals for amendments; two have already been submitted and one will be submitted. We do not consider it good and acceptable for delegates and management to be quasi-contonated in this respect for a five-year mandate; this is an association, even if it operates in the form of a public body, even if it participates in or assists in quasi-state tasks. For five years, a self-organized, grassroots democratic community will be cemented by its delegates and officials, and we think it's not healthy. In our view, a three-year period would be sufficient, which will also guarantee stability, but also at the same time the exercise of the right democratic rights, and all other threats - let us be honest, even a corruption threat - are far more excluded than the current five-year mandate. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to appeal most to you, to the representatives and authors of the Government, and to the representatives of the government present. We have tabled two amendments that support the proposal in substance and are particularly beneficial to vigilantes. We have tried both of them before, but the law they are currently submitting is a light on the need for these proposals. One is that the original law also required the acquisition of an official moral certificate as a basic condition for being a member of the Civil Guard; we also submitted an amendment proposal. If this is required by the law by the law of the citizen - especially knowing the operation of the vigilante and in many small settlements how modestly living or even living in poverty are members of the associations, who, however, are willing to help with their free time in this very important matter - so if the law prescribes them something that costs, then the State should bear the costs of doing so. We would now like to call even more strongly on the Government and our Fidesz KDNP fellow Members to support this proposal during the debate and in the final vote, since, by opening up the possibility for 14-18-year-olds to participate in the work of the Civil Guard - who, given their youth, in principle, cannot have their own financial space - their case shows even more how much it would be necessary for those who volunteer in such work to do something that requires a separate financial expense. So at least let the state ensure that the question of money cannot be whether or not someone can participate in this vigilante work, especially underage people. Our other proposal - which we could not help but submit to this law, and obviously we are aware that it is fundamentally over-extending to the original proposal, but according to the rules of the House it has the opportunity to deal with it in substance - is the issue that has been said on a daily basis both on behalf of OPSZ and on behalf of the vigilantes for years, and which we have submitted in the form of a separate bill in the previous cycle, and the government has not supported it, but we all know that it is one of the biggest problems in terms of material terms of the National Civil Guard Association and its subordinate associations, and this is the issue of the tax on motor vehicles and on duty vehicles. Our amendment is the same as we have already submitted, so the.Absolves from the tax would include the cars in the management of the National Civil Service Association, which are operated for the service, among the exceptions of the section on the start of the car, making it clear here that while the car is often not the property of the Civil Guard Association, the operation is carried out by them, together with the very small costs of this. And from now on, we are talking not only about fuel costs, but also about an additional tax that the state collects by giving state support to the National Citizens' Association with one hand, and with the other's hand, almost 110 million forints in the form of such a separate motor vehicle tax will be taken back from them. Overall, the bill can also be supported with its objectives. Given - and this is a great confirmation - that, today, within the walls of Parliament, the leadership of the National Civil Service Association is here and supports this proposal, I would ask the authors and the Fidesz, as well as the other parliamentary factions, to support in any event our proposal to make the authority's moral certificate practically free or free of charge, especially for young people, but for everyone, and I would like to consider that this is the opportunity to open this law to finally solve the motor vehicle tax issue, which represents the financial problems of the vigilantes. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-04-14-49	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Adam Mirkóczki. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, There is a very important issue ahead of us and a very important, fundamentally supportive goal and basically a proposal to support, but we would also like to use some criticism because it is clearly visible, which is perhaps a fundamental problem here that, when centralising civil society associations and associations, a filter has been used and applied - if we can believe the letters and requests we receive - that we have managed not to ask for the opinion of a significant part of the organisations. [[13.00]] How do I put this? I am not the first to complain about this, but the one concerned. So, if we touch on such a question, perhaps it would be more appropriate to have a much wider consultation with those concerned in particular. Here I am a mouthpiece, in effect, because it has come to us, let's just say that complaints or criticisms have almost without exception formulated this. The importance and importance of the vigilante's role in crime prevention or law enforcement is beyond doubt and should only be supported and spoken out. That is what we are doing, and therefore we would very much like to go beyond this proposal in such a way that it would be more important that we should develop an even more stable, even stronger civil guard law financially - money, steeds, weapons - and legally. It would be worth adapting the whole relevant legislation to the daily challenges. What is new and what is a fundamental innovation is the involvement of young people, minors, young people aged 14-18 in the work of the Civil Guard. This is a very, very important and, by the way, very welcome proposal, because it has a kind of educational purpose and, on the other hand, it is very important and can be very useful in combating or preventing the various crimes committed between minors. What is the problem with this - and this is mainly legal - is that 14-18-year-olds are limited in their capacity to act in the sense that the Ptk. He said there might be problems here. How to eliminate this, so that in practice there is no problem in their everyday activities, we will only see this when it is already working. But the fundamental goal and the introduction of another social age group and especially young people into this very important work of the proposal is certainly welcome, and we are confident that, by the way, the career of law enforcement will also be more attractive for young people who are already trying to do such a very important civilian task voluntarily, despite their youth. As to the justification for the submission, I would say it gently: there could also be a slight exaggeration to say that it is, because it is, only. There, we failed to put the important, forward-looking goals in such a way that if a layman looks at it... then what we want is basically what we want. I hope that the various amendments can make it even better. Once again, Jobbik is fundamentally in favour of this enlargement of the vigilante, which concerns young people, and of course I do not want to repeat the arguments that have been made earlier, but I would like to anticipate that we will make proposals, if not specifically for this amendment, but we would like to see a completely new law on the vigilante for later ones, which, by the way, provides much more and more support for the vigilantes, both by means and legally, because we see everyday problems in small towns. It is possible to understand the deficits and resources arising from the budgets of civil war vehicles, which my fellow Member has already told me. You can understand the equipment, and of course you can understand the legal passages that you do not have at the moment. So, especially in those regions, in settlements where there is a great need for strong vigilantes from the point of view of public security, and the police cannot provide a sufficient number to meet everyday challenges, for example, such cases show that we should finally think about how and how the rights of the vigilantes can be extended. The subject of the specific debate is whether this should be done with one voice, whether they should be given extra training at the time, either legally or for other educational purposes, but it cannot be a question that, in some places - and everyday experience shows - we do need to strengthen and expand their financial, not just their means, not only their equipment, but also their legal potential, so that they can work effectively and effectively alongside the police, or do even more effective work than they do at the moment. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] So I hope that the amendments will make the proposal even better, and that we will be able to support it, as I say again, is a very welcome goal and should be fundamentally supported. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-14-51	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome. We will continue with the speech of the lead speaker of the LMP. Congressman András Schiffer, please.
u2015-04-14-52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, We can support the proposal to amend the Civil Guard Act, and, of course, we can also support the opposition proposals that have just been tabled. In particular, I would like to draw attention to what Tamás Harangozó said at the end of his speech as a keynote speaker, so that the replacement of the official moral certificate should be free of charge for the vigilantes. On the one hand, this bill rearranges the relationship between the territorial civil society alliances and the national alliance. It relieves the national alliance of burden and introduces the concept of a young vigilante and renews the system of sanctions applicable to the civil servant's breach of his service and ethics. We can support all three directions, but at the same time I would like to draw attention to a few initiatives on which LMP will shortly present a separate bill, which will complement, in part, the Civil Guard Act and the amendment of tax legislation. The two proposals are as follows. On the one hand, last year, in 2014, in Pécs, LMP's local representative, Lóránt Keresztes, presented a proposal, which was voted by the majority. This is about the fact that after the adoption of the LMP initiative in Pécs, active vigilantes can buy bus tickets with a 50% discount, i.e. local public transport. I also think it should be considered that this proposal of the LMP did not fall from the sky either in Pécs, because before that, our Member agreed in part with the Vice-President of the National Civil Guard Association and the leaders of the Baranya Civil Guard Association. Based on the experience of one year, it can be said that this system has worked. We have recommended this in several other county seats, and it would be appropriate for Parliament to consider giving this benefit to citizens active in community transport. And the other proposal is definitely not LMP's own brainchild. I have in my hand the speech held by a representative of the Andornaktálya Citizen's Guards at the meeting of the fierce county vigilante association. The main point of the proposal is the following, and this is also accepted by the National Civil Service Association, I understand, as its own position, that the ex-police officers who are active in civil service are exempt from the payment of personal income tax. This proposal was adopted by the 2014 General Assembly of the National Civil Service Association on the initiative of the Visényi and Baranya Citizens' Guards. Unfortunately, the government's positive response has been in vain ever since. The LMP will therefore present, in the coming weeks, a proposal for both the preferential use of Community transport and the exemption for ex-law enforcement. On this last proposal, let me give you another explanation, in this way, after the Service Act was passed just minutes ago by the House. In the debate on the Service Act, we also said that the situation that came up in 2011 with the withdrawal of service pensions remains of great concern to us. [[13.10]] And this is not just a social issue, it is a situation that has developed in recent years, so when this type of early retirement was made possible, it is precisely the stock in the prime of its power that withdraws from the police sphere. This proposal, which has been formulated, is nothing more than a copy of the rules on the voluntary reserve service. The rules on the voluntary reserve service were also adopted, and the discount was granted to ex-police officers because the knowledge they have accumulated, obtained and accumulated in public money, is missing from law enforcement today. This would be in the interest of the community that those former retired law enforcement officers, who were otherwise deprived of entitlement in 2011, would decide, however, that their acquired knowledge, which was taken away in full force, went out and retired, would still be used for the benefit of the public. So we would inspire the government to support any proposal that at least alleviates the unworthy situation in which former law enforcement officers, retired law enforcement officers, were put in place in 2011 and, on the other hand, it would be particularly important for the whole country, small villages, to take on the role of as many people as possible in the Civil Guard, who, by the way, gained public knowledge on taxpayers' money, gained practice as active police officers, and now cannot use this knowledge for the benefit of the public. On the whole, on the subject of the amendments, which have been said here by my opposition colleagues, let me say so much, with a little bit of flexibility from the Civil Guard Act, that we would like to see a government policy, which is what we seek to do, which supports voluntary work with all possible public means, any voluntary activity for the benefit of the community. This is why these proposals fit in a logical order - both preferential public transport, travel, free of charge, and the rest - because all means must be seized not only by the vigilantes but also by other voluntary workers who volunteer for the benefit of the community, so that the state can relieve them of burdens and encourage as many citizens as possible to engage in voluntary activities in the interest of the community. This is particularly important in a society such as Hungary, where the proportion of active volunteers in the adult population is extremely low in European comparison. We must seize every means to change this situation. If you like, it's one of the top-notch national strategy problems. I would also like to underline once again our initiative that the knowledge and experience of law enforcement officers who have retired in the past 5 to 10 to 15 years should be turned back into the vigilante movement. In addition, we think that it would be a great help to settlements in a public security crisis, that the sense of security of the people living there could be of great help if people equipped with law enforcement knowledge and experience volunteered to serve as vigilantes in the public interest. We can support the proposal, as can the opposition's amendments. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-14-53	Thank you very much. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, I ask: does any of the Members wish to comment on this item, whether in a two-minute time frame or as a standard word applicant? I didn't mean to encourage you, but Congressman Bellozó is asking for time in the two-minute framework. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. With great respect, I would like to ask the rapporteur and the Secretary of State, Mr Károly Kontra, whether he can give his support in principle to the proposal that I have said, or if he will form his position later. But after sitting here, I think it would be worth it for the government or the author to at least say, in principle, yes or no to these proposals. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-14-55	Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Anybody else want to tell me? [[No signal.]] He doesn't want to. This means that the general debate is closed and I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what he has just said in the debate. [[On Dr. Richard Hörcsik's mark:]] Congressman Richard Hörcsik has the floor. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-56	Ladies and gentlemen, The Civil Guard, as a non-political NGO, is indeed a good example of how to work together, free of party politics, for the sake of the common good, not only in a larger city, but also in a smaller settlement. It is very important that they provide a moral support and a basis for citizens who have not yet lost their job in the public domain, and we have not lost the chance to try to work for each other in a small settlement. Well, thank you to my fellow Members for your supportive attitude. Indeed, it is a bill that serves the common good and that it makes the law of vigilante better so that we can meet the challenges that lie ahead. Well, next week, on Tuesday, the committee will meet, and there will be an opportunity to discuss the amendments. For my part, I consider the presentation of my fellow Members to be eligible. I also thank my fellow Member, Tamás Bellozó, for his support. As to your proposal, the question is when the state will take the money out of one pocket and put it in the other's pocket. Indeed, it should be considered that a person who takes a public role, in particular, up to the age of 18, does not use his own pocket to finance work for the common good by paying the fee for the authority's moral certificate. However, I also recommend that, for consideration, the Civil Guard receives more than 1.2 billion, 1.3 billion state aids each year, and we usually agree on this in the budget debate as well. We consider it important that financial conditions improve step by step. This is also done by the fact that every year, when purchasing a particular car, they have the opportunity to obtain either a car or an SUV. So the question is how the budget can finance this even further. One thing is certain: in the coming years, the constant budget is to support the vigilante year after year in accordance with the needs. So in my view, this state aid could cover a few ten million forints in extra expenses, but it is worth considering, by the way, that, if possible, I would also like to support the cost of rationalising or reducing the cost of the vigilante. I also thank my fellow Member, Adam Mirkóczki, for his support. He mentioned that the concept of a young vigilante appeared as a new element. Not here in the debate, but earlier, when I consulted and talked with my fellow Members, the main issue was how it came to involving a student under 18 years of age in the work of the Civil Guard, and whether it is not some kind of irresponsible thing to involve young people here in this work. Well, I would like to reassure every doubter, not to say that these young people, under 18, are serving alone, but here in the draft, when we define the concept of a young vigilante, the 9th. In paragraph 3 of Section 3, we propose that the young vigilante carry out his duties together with the vigilante. So this is not about parental supervision, it is about supervising an adult vigilante. So I am convinced that every vigilante knows his duty, knows his duties, and is responsible for involving young people in this work. I think it is very important that these young people, especially in small settlements, get used to order, get used to doing good things for the community, and my personal experience in this area is, for example, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, that as a kind of fatherly role are played by vigilantes when young people are involved in this work. [[13.20]] In paragraph 1 of this Article, we propose that the young vigilante carry out his duties together with a vigilante. So this is not about parental supervision, it is about supervising an adult vigilante. So I am convinced that every vigilante knows his duty, knows his duties, and is responsible for involving young people in this work. I think it is very important that these young people, especially in small settlements, get used to order, get used to doing good things for the community, and my personal experience in this area is, for example, Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, that as a kind of fatherly role are played by vigilantes when young people are involved in this work.(13.20) Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your support, and I hope that by this law we will improve vigilante activity, not just for your own benefit, but for the benefit of the whole society. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-14-57	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There is a general debate on the bill amending the laws necessary to combat abuse in bank accounts until closure. Gergely Gulyás, Roland Mengyi, Bence Tuzson, Fidesz, independent motion by Members T-4287. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gulyás Gergely, the author of the item on the agenda. Congressman, please.
u2015-04-14-58	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The bill amending the laws necessary to combat abuse in bank accounts was submitted on 7 April of this year, T/4287. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. As rapporteur, Mr Roland and my fellow Member Bence Tuzson joined the motion. Firstly, I would like to briefly mention the need for the proposal and its history, and then also the content elements. As the first step in the legal settlement of issues related to consumer credit, on the 4th of July 2014, the Parliament adopted the XXXVIII of 2014 on the resolution of certain issues relating to the joint decision on consumer credit contracts in financial institutions. Law. This has brought it to a legislative level and has therefore made it general in the context of Article 2/2014. The provisions of civil law contained in the Curia Unity Decision. In line with this, the legislation stated the nullity of the exchange rate gap and established the presumption of unfairness as regards the imposition of unilateral contractual amendments. The 2014 XL on the rules for the clearance of accounts and other provisions laid down in the Act on the resolution of certain issues relating to the Curia's decision on consumer loan contracts for financial institutions. We had to deal primarily with issues of settlement required under invalid contractual provisions. This is the settlement of the exchange rate gap in the 2014 XXXVIII. Act No. 3 Its nullity, as well as the nullity of the provisions relating to the unilateral right to amend a contract, became necessary due to the nullity of the provisions laid down by the court. As a result of the use of invalid contractual clauses, overpayments were made to consumers. Under this so-called clearing law, these past overpayments must be accounted for by financial institutions vis-à-vis consumers. In the clearing law, we have recorded two issues, among other things. On the one hand, the legislation contains provisions on consumer credit only, in accordance with the Unity of Rights Decision. CLXII of 2009 on credit to the consumer Act No. 3 According to Paragraph 3 of Article 3 of the Act, the consumer is a natural person acting outside the scope of his independent occupation and economic activity. On this basis, consumer credit covers private individuals' non-business loans. On the other hand, as a basic principle, it is not possible to define all the detailed rules in the law in view of the large number of types of consumer credit in practice. For this reason, in addition to laying down general procedural and accounting rules, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank was authorised to regulate the details and methodology of all settlements by decree, acting under its macro-prudential powers. The advantage of regulation at regulation level is that it allows for a more flexible response than legislation in the event of the emergence of any new set of cases. However, as the title of the bill before us indicates, some financial institutions have had and some abuses which clearly require a change in law, and on the basis of the comments made by the Hungarian National Bank and the National Court Office, we have now presented to the House a proposal that will provide easier and faster solutions for both the accountable debtor and the account holder. According to the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's announcement of 1 April, there is a credit institution that informed its clients in a letter that it does not consider their contract as a consumer loan and therefore does not wish to be accounted for. In light of further fraudulent practices following unfair practices, the amendment specifically identifies some forms of conduct that may serve as the basis for the MNB's audit procedure. Such conduct is, in particular, an exercise carried out by a financial institution in relation to a large number of consumers, in order to avoid the fulfilment of the clearing obligation or to prevent the submission of claims for settlement by non-recognition of the consumer nature of the loan contract or financial leasing contract, by expressing its changed position on their different classification or nature. With the adoption of the law, we also have the opportunity to resolve the situation where the necessary information is not fully available to banks, for example because, after the takeover of the portfolio of customers, the financial institution previously in the position of creditors has ceased to exist. In this case, the relevant bank may prepare the settlement using a so-called estimation methodology. In this connection, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the legal application of the estimation methodology is also covered by the right of consumer protection control of the Hungarian National Bank. The application of the rules laid down by law is accompanied by the intention to amend the submission of pleadings in civil non-court proceedings only on a form if the submission form has been regularised in accordance with clear rules. By laying down this rule, we can prevent a number of debates. However, there are situations where several people are debating the accounts for the same reason. This proposal also states that in this case, the financial organisation, the Financial Reconciliation Board and the court do not have to re-evaluate the complaint. However, the settlement may be contested for several reasons, and the proposal for a law before us for the merger of complaint procedures may be possible. With the adoption of the bill, it will be possible to hold a hearing before the conciliation body only if it is considered justified by the Gremium. The reason for this amendment is that the correctness of the accounts and the facts set out by the consumer or the financial institution are available in writing, so that the procedure without a hearing seems to be justified as a matter of principle. The Accounting Act is also amended in order to ensure that the court is not able to establish the correct accounting, but can only examine whether the accounting of the financial institution and the decision of the Financial Reconciliation Board comply with the law. If the court finds that the accounts of the financial institution do not comply with the law, it shall repeal its decision to infringe the law and require the financial institution to draw up a new settlement. And if the irregularity in the accounts has been found by the conciliation body, he will be obliged to proceed with a new procedure. Overall, the proposal before us is capable of restricting financial institutions' abuse of accounting even more strongly, and we hope to eliminate it almost entirely, but at the same time the procedure in which the settlement takes place will become simpler and more transparent in the light of the experience so far. We are also trying to help citizens who have been harmed by illegal practices by banks to get their rights as soon as possible. That is why I ask all the factions and fellow Members sitting in Parliament to support the proposed bill. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-14-59	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'm asking if you'd like to speak on behalf of the government, Secretary of State. Secretary Robert Répássy, please.
u2015-04-14-60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Members of the Council, The provision of assistance to foreign exchange creditors did not end with the creation of the law on the unit of law and the Act on Settlement. On the basis of the indications provided by consumers and bodies supervising financial institutions, it has become necessary to prevent and eliminate abusive practices relating to the clearing obligation of banks which threaten the enforcement of consumers' claims for clearing. To this end, this bill also mentions a number of forms of conduct that may serve as the basis for the control procedure that the Hungarian National Bank may conduct. [[13.30]] In particular, if banks do not recognise the consumer nature of a loan contract or a financial leasing contract in a large number of consumers, they shall classify it differently or express their changed views in this regard, thereby seeking to avoid compliance with the clearing obligation or to prevent the submission of claims for settlement. In addition to this primary objective, the bill contains several other procedural facilitations linked to the settlement, which will allow consumers to obtain their due overpayments in a timely manner, with as little inconvenience as possible. The procedure of the Financial Reconciliation Board and the Court will be simplified, since decision-making on the basis of documents, without hearing, will become the main rule. It also makes it easier for consumers to submit their applications to the courts on a regular form for this purpose. The bill clarifies that if there are several parties to dispute settlement on the consumer side for the same reason, the application may be considered in a procedure, thus shortening the duration of the procedure. The bill also allows banks, if the information necessary to fulfil the clearing obligation is not fully available, to use an estimation methodology in the preparation of the settlement, under the control of the Hungarian National Bank, in order to pay consumers as soon as possible. A further major innovation in the bill is that, in view of the ongoing development of the legislation on family bankruptcy, it will change the possible date for the continuation of enforcement procedures, which are suspended under the Accounting Act, in order to ensure the consistency of the two rules and the full protection which is desirable for consumers. These enforcement procedures should not continue before the adoption and entry into force of the rules on family bankruptcy. The adoption of the bill is a necessary and essential condition for consumers who are disadvantaged by the application of unfair contract terms to be satisfied as soon as possible. The fulfilment of accounting obligations is of paramount importance for society as a whole, as the increased protection of vulnerable groups, including consumers, is in the interest of all of us. I therefore call on the Honourable Parliament to support, by adopting the bill, the measures taken and planned by the Government to help foreign exchange creditors. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-14-61	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the Members, the first among which will be the speeches by the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2015-04-14-62	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Since the establishment of the second Orbán government, i.e. since 2010, the legislative work has taken a number of measures to help the currency crooked. Before I turn to the main elements of the bill in question, please allow me to recall the government steps that have been taken so far in favour of foreign exchange lenders. First of all, let us not forget that the release of foreign currency loans was one of the biggest crimes of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments. During the banking governments, the Hungarian population's foreign exchange debt increased by a hundred and forty times, and it was mortgaged on the home of about half a million Hungarian families. Bankers' governments have endangered the homes, livelihoods and safety of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families. If it were up to them, thousands of families would now be runaways, because they never looked at the interests of the Hungarian people, but at the banks. Hundreds of thousands were thrown into foreign exchange debt, and thousands of families were destroyed physically, mentally and neurally. Since the establishment of the Fidesz-KDNP government five years ago, the Fidesz-KDNP government has taken a series of measures for those in distress. With government help in recent years, we have been able to save hundreds of thousands of families from the worst, the loss of their homes, as more than 500 thousand families have so far received some form of assistance under the Home Protection Action Programme. 170,000 people made use of the possibility of final repayment, more than 165,000 people applied to the exchange rate barrier, nearly 7500 people offered their properties to the National Asset Manager, while more than 150,000 families were protected by the eviction moratorium. On 5 November 2013, further decisions were adopted with exceptional urgency. The amendment of the law at that time also created the possibility of entering the exchange rate barrier for credit contracts over HUF 20 million and over 90 days late at the time of the payment. It is also important to point out that the Parliament extended the period of the eviction moratorium this year, i.e. until 30 April 2015. With the amendment of the law, nearly 150,000 households were given the opportunity to repay their debts on more favourable terms, even with 40-45 percent reduction in repayments. The first bill to help foreign exchange lenders was submitted by the Government to Parliament on 27 June 2014 with a title to resolve certain issues related to the resolution of the Curia's decision on the consumer loan agreements of financial institutions. Let me remind you that the bill adopted last June was essentially based on three pillars. The first was the issue of the exchange rate gap, on which the Curia clearly stated that the condition that the loan should be calculated at the time of admission at the purchase and repayment of the currency was null and void. This was replaced by the official exchange rate of the Hungarian National Bank. The second pillar of the proposal was unilateral treaty amendments. According to this, contrary to the practice which had been rather detrimental to the credible, the burden of proof has been borne by the banks to demonstrate that the amendments they have made comply with the principle of fairness. This was the legal basis for the fact that if the bank has unfairly concluded the contract with the client, the unauthorized profits must be repaid to the client. The third pillar of the proposal was the suspension of ongoing procedures, auctions, litigation and enforcement procedures. This is justified by the fact that no one can be put in a position to auction its collateral while there is an ongoing settlement dispute. Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is directly preceded by the so-called accounting law adopted in September. In addition to foreign exchange lenders, this legislation also provided for the possibility of fair settlement for Hungarian families borrowing forints, as it was intended to account for the entire banking system. According to the main rule of the Law adopted at that time, the accounting was terminated after 26 July 2009 and required the application of the accounts to live contracts still in force. The Act of Settlement authorised the National Bank of Hungary to regulate the method of settlement in a regulation. The Act also designated the National Bank of Hungary to check the settlement of each loan contract and client. The legislation also stipulated that financial institutions should calculate the amount returned to the debtors on the basis of a later decree of the National Bank of Hungary, which was estimated to amount to nearly HUF 1000 billion overall. For the purposes of accounting, the Act treated the settlement required for the nullity of the exchange rate gap and for the nullity of the clauses on the unilateral right to change contracts. According to this, the overpayment in favour of the debtor had to be accounted for as a prepayment of the capital debt to financial institutions. The main rule of the accounting methodology was that the consumer should be placed in a position that, since the date of the contract, the 2014 XXXVIII. Act No. 3 The interest rate and the initial rate at which the contract is concluded may be recognised at the rate specified in Section 2 of this Annex. The settlement notice had to be sent to customers between 15 January and 29 January 2015 and 14 February to 28 February 2015, depending on whether the bank had previously challenged the presumption of unfairness in the court. I would like to note here that the justification for the settlement is also supported by the fact that the Hungarian banks could unilaterally modify the contracts by autumn 2010, without the customer's consent, subject to minimum notification obligations, with practically simple notices posted. [[13.40]] Well, this is an extremely uncomfortable and unfavorable practice for customers, because with the new legislative background, we want to put an end once and for all to unilateral changes to contracts, increases in costs and fees to the detriment of customers, interest increases, i.e. unfair banking practices. Just to inform citizens, it is worth emphasising once again that the timetable for the forinting will be as follows. As of January, the banks will count the instalments of the authentic ones at the new fixed rate. From February, new terms and conditions have been put in place, and the date of the forint is also marked by this date. This was either last month, or now, in April, the banks have to send a letter to their clients, which should include how much money actually comes back to the authentic. Within one month of receipt of the letter, the banks shall enter into new forint credit contracts retroactively with the parties concerned, with effect from 1 February. Citizens can first pay the reduced instalments in May, and the surplus paid since February must then be transferred back to their customers. After the forinting, the customer still has the opportunity to terminate the new contract for 60 days and until 30 July at the latest if it is not suitable for him. As I mentioned earlier, as a result of the accounting of banks, nearly HUF 1000 billion will be returned to Hungarian families, thus ending the fine print period that has been experienced so far, and the conditions for borrowers will finally become predictable, and they will only be subject to much more limited adjustments. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I think it was absolutely important to mention these measures as a reminder, because our political family was the first one that could and wanted to face this wide-ranging socio-economic problem. At the same time, we had to be careful in the legislation, since we had to be careful not to pour the child out of the bucket with water. I am saying all this because, in particular, the opposition has often heard irresponsible statements that must be corrected in any way. For example, my fellow Jobbik Members like to say that unfair foreign exchange credit contracts should have been declared null and void. They're just forgetting that declaring nullity would have meant that the credentials would have to pay the bank back the price of their apartment. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That is not true.]] And if they could, they would've been in a worse position than before, because they would've lost their home. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That is not true.]] Thank you, I'd like to go through with it, and then you'll have a chance to react. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Here you go.]] Therefore, every time we have a good ringing, populist, we have to say-solve type of solutions, then, I think it is worth counting to ten, honourable Members, and to consider whether we are using them only for our popularity or for real help. Now allow me to briefly sum up the main points of the proposal myself. The purpose of the bill before us is to name, on the basis of the practical experience of the past period, the forms of conduct that underpin the control procedure of the Hungarian National Bank. This is also necessary because, where appropriate, they do not comply with the provisions of the Accounting Act and may affect a large number of consumers. In addition, the aim is to ensure that appropriate detailed rules are available to challenge the accounts. The bill also makes the procedure of the Financial Reconciliation Board and the proceedings of the Court more effective by clarifying or supplementing the procedural rules, thus avoiding any difficulties in interpreting in practice. Based on the amendment of the Accounting Act, financial institutions which are not fully available with the information necessary to fulfil the clearing obligation may prepare the settlement using an estimation methodology. The legal application of the estimation methodology is covered by the consumer protection control procedure of the Hungarian National Bank. The amendment to the Accounting Act also settles the situation where more people may dispute the settlement, such as the debtor or even the guarantor. In such a case, the Financial Reconciliation Board and the Court will no longer have to re-evaluate the complaint, thus shortening the process. However, there may also be cases where the settlement is contested for another reason, in which case it should be assessed in addition to merging the complaint procedures. By amending the Accounting Act, it will be possible to hold a hearing before the Financial Reconciliation Board only if it is considered justified by the Conciliation Body. This is due to the fact that the correctness of the accounts and the facts set out by the consumer or the financial institution are available in writing. It is equally appropriate to make the proceedings without a hearing a main rule concerning judicial proceedings. The proposal also amends the clearing law so that the court is not able to establish the correct settlement but can only examine whether the accounting of the financial institution and the decision of the Financial Reconciliation Board comply with the legislation. If the court finds that the accounts of the financial institution do not comply with the law, it shall repeal the decision of the conciliation body which violates the law and oblige the financial institution to draw up a new settlement. Where the accounts are established by the Financial Reconciliation Board, the Board shall be obliged to carry out a new procedure. The amendment to the Clearing Act also allows submissions to be submitted in a form during the civil non-court procedure where a form is standardised for submission of the submission of the pleadings. The proposal identifies some forms of conduct that may serve as the basis for the audit procedure that the Hungarian National Bank may conduct. Such conduct is, in particular, an exercise carried out by a financial institution aimed at avoiding compliance with the clearing obligation or at preventing the submission of claims for settlement. The bill also covers possible changes to the date of the continuation of the suspended enforcement procedures. This is due to the fact that there is an ongoing preparation for the regulation of family bankruptcy protection, which is expected to affect the number of persons covered by the Accounting Act 41 and 43. It would also be necessary to ensure that these enforcement procedures are not continued before the adoption and entry into force of the rules on family bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen, On the basis of the above, I believe that the clarification and the changes made to the practice are certainly justified in order to ensure that bank accounts to the credible can be made smoothly and without abuse. Therefore, I urge you with respect to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-14-63	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Bertalan Tóth, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here.
u2015-04-14-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, This is a typical example of unprepared and uncontested legislative proposals before Parliament. Practice proves that despite the many ten-page final touches of the Legislative Committee on a proposal, in practice a provision of unprepared and unconvened legislative proposals fails. The second point is that here, in my fellow Member's keynote speech, he referred to the fact that this government was the first to face the problem of foreign exchange lending, and he solved it. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Member and the attention of the honourable Parliament that they have done nothing for four years. And it's not your credit, it's the credit of hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange credentials who have initiated court proceedings, and at the end of which the Curia has stated that the banks have acted unfairly. For four years you have collected this money in the form of a bank tax from banks with high profits due to high exchange rates and financed their prestige investments in the budget. Four years have passed, four years have been paid by foreign exchange lenders due to the high exchange rate, up to 70 percent more repayments than was a burden to them in the past. And here I would like to draw attention to the exchange rate again. You have to look at the exchange rate of either euro or Swiss franck at the time of the change of government and the exchange rate - not at a discount, but at the market rate - and you have to look at the difference between this and what foreign exchange lenders are going to have to pay. [[13.50]] As regards family bankruptcy protection, I would like to remind you that the Hungarian Socialist Party has initiated the introduction of a private failure institution not once, not twice, several times in recent years. You didn't even include this bill in a series of articles, you couldn't go to Parliament. Now the Christian Democratic People's Party is bringing its own idea here after Sunday's closure, which we see is a very successful initiative, but it is now bringing this initiative into Parliament as its own initiative, even though we have always suggested and asked the Parliament to deal with this every year and to establish the laws under which the institution of the private failure is to be introduced. The purpose of the bill itself is, on the one hand, to specifically name, on the basis of the practical experience of the past period, the forms of conduct which, on the part of the financial institutions, do not comply with the provisions of the accounting law adopted earlier, and may affect consumers in a large number of ways, thus establishing the control procedure of the Hungarian National Bank. In addition, the purpose of the law is to provide appropriate detailed rules for the discussion of the accounts. The bill amends the clearing law on a number of points. If a financial institution which, for any reason, does not have sufficient data to carry out the settlement, is required to apply the individual methodology approved by the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, then the Hungarian Nemzeti Bank examines the existence of the conditions for the application of the estimation methodology in the framework of a consumer protection procedure. The procedure to be followed will be put in place in the event that the accounts are contested by a number of people. One of the cases where the settlement is contested for the same reason that has already been settled by the Financial Reconciliation Board or by the Court of Justice is not to be re-evaluated in this case. However, there may also be cases where the settlement is contested for another reason. In this case, it must be judged. A hearing shall be held before the conciliation body only if the body considers it justified. If the facts set out are available in writing, they are not able to make oral amendments in substance to the proposal. It will be recorded in the law so that the financial institution cannot make any settlement offer, but only within the time limit set by the conciliation body in its notification of the initiation of the procedure. It precludes the court from establishing the correct accounting; it can only examine whether the accounting of the financial institution or the decision of the conciliation body complies with the law. If the court finds that the accounts of the financial institution comply with the law, it shall reject the application. If it finds that the settlement does not comply with the law, it shall repeal the infringement decision of the conciliation body and oblige the financial institution to draw up a new settlement. On the basis of practical experience following the entry into force of the Accounting Act, the bill also identifies some forms of conduct that may serve as the basis for the procedure for monitoring the Hungarian National Bank as a supervisory authority in the implementation of the Accounting Act. Such conduct is, in particular, an exercise carried out by a financial institution in relation to a large number of consumers, in order to avoid the fulfilment of the clearing obligation or to prevent the submission of claims for settlement by non-recognition of the consumer nature of the loan contract or financial leasing contract, by expressing its changed position on their different classification or nature. The proposal amends the possible date for the continuation of the suspended implementation procedures. This is due to the ongoing preparation of the rules on family bankruptcy protection, which I have already mentioned, which is expected to affect the same circle of persons who are also covered by the Accounting Act. The proposal would extend the Hungarian National Bank's consumer rights to examine the implementation of all legislation issued in the context of the settlement. As I have said here, the proposal contains basically technical amendments that help consumers, foreign exchange credentials, to settle as soon as possible the damage caused by the unfair procedure of banks. The changes initiated on the basis of practical experience are essentially eligible, but there is a legitimate question as to why the supervisory powers of the National Bank of Hungary will only be further checked now if there is a real need for it; did wrong judicial judgments arise when the courts were entitled to change the accounts; why would they take this right away from the courts, why would they take this option away from the judges' hands? They come up as a question. With reference to the National Bank of Hungary, there will be an extension of powers in this law, which is, of course, correct. However, if we look at the supervisory activities of the Hungarian National Bank over the past few years, I think that it is scandalous, since the inadequate performance of this supervisory activity, the many omissions that have occurred in the supervision of the Hungarian National Bank in recent years, have led to the loss of their investment by many tens of thousands. I think this responsibility cannot be avoided. My second point is who's guarding the guardians. The Hungarian National Bank receives new licenses while operating without a supervisory board. I would also like to draw the attention of my fellow Members who are fidesz during the negotiation of this bill to the fact that this is an unblessed state. I think it is unacceptable that a state-owned National Bank, which, of course, operates independently of the government, does not have a supervisory board. This problem needs to be resolved as soon as possible, as evidenced by the broker scandal of past periods. The National Bank of Hungary must be supervised by the Supervisory Board elected by Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-14-65	Thank you very much. Mr Imre Vejkey, lead speaker for the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Decision XXXVIII of 2014 on the resolution of certain issues relating to the Curia's joint decision on consumer lending contracts in financial institutions Law No. 4 Paragraph 1 of Article 1 sets as the main rule the legal presumption of unfairness in respect of the contractual clauses of the general terms of the contract, which are not individually negotiated as part of consumer loan contracts, such as unilateral increases in interest rates, increases in costs or increases in fees. At the same time, the legal unit law allowed financial institutions to sue the Hungarian State for the annulment of this presumption, proving in the applicant's position that the contractual clauses of the contracts concerned are fair. The Law of the Unity of Rights Act 6. However, paragraph 2 of Section 2 provided for an exception to the main rule. In respect of the relevant contractual clauses of the general contractual terms published or amended after 26 November 2010, their unfairness should not be presumed. On the basis of the legal provisions, the Hungarian National Bank may examine these clauses as supervision, and if it finds certain clauses unfair, it may bring an action of public interest and a lawsuit to determine unfairness. [[In the notary seat Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by Attila Móring József.]] The rules on lawsuits brought by public interest actions are laid down in Section XXXVIII of 2014 on the resolution of certain issues relating to the Curia's joint decision on consumer credit contracts in financial institutions. Act XL of 2014 on the rules for accounting and certain other provisions. It is determined by law, referring also to the rules of civil proceedings laid down in the law on the unit of law. T/4287 amending the laws necessary to combat abuse in bank accounts In the light of the practical experience of the past period, the legislative proposal contains a specific mention of the types of conduct that could affect consumers in large numbers and do not comply with the provisions of the Accounting Act. [[14.00]] In addition to the above, the purpose of the bill is to provide appropriate detailed rules for the discussion of the accounts. The proposed rules will help consumers to manage their accounting rights more effectively. The bill empowers the MNB to examine the existence of conditions for the application of the estimation methodology in the context of a consumer protection procedure in order to ensure that institutions do not abuse the potential of the application of the specific methodology. The bill also contains provisions which seek to exclude that interpretation uncertainty may arise in the future in the event that the same settlement is contested by more than one person. The purpose of the amendment is to enable the court to examine only whether the accounts of the financial institution and the decision of the PBT comply with the law. Ladies and Gentlemen, On the basis of practical experience following the entry into force of the Accounting Act, the bill also identifies a number of forms of conduct that may serve as the basis for the verification procedure. Such behaviour is, in particular, an exercise carried out by a financial institution in relation to a large number of consumers, in order to avoid the fulfilment of the clearing obligation or the submission of claims for settlement, without recognising the consumer nature of a loan contract or a financial leasing contract. These forms of conduct, in particular, contribute to ensuring that consumers, as well as financial institutions, are clear on which conduct can serve as a basis for the initiation of the verification procedure. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill therefore makes the procedure of the Financial Reconciliation Board more effective, as well as the judicial procedure itself, by clarifying and supplementing the procedural rules. Please support T-4287. The Parliamentary Group of the KDNP supports bill No 1. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-14-67	Thank you very much, Congressman. Here comes the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpat is in charge of the floor.
u2015-04-14-68	Mr President, Dear House, Obviously, this debate would be more honest - if it were to arise - in the event that the pro-government authors had said what lies before us. We are talking about the cosmeticization of a faulty, truncated, so-called settlement process by you, since you have drawn up the bill in haste after which you wish to draw certain conclusions after a few months or a few weeks of experience. But it can be said that they have overstated their reasoning, and I would also like to go beyond the fact that the dignity of Parliament is violated, in my view, that two of three pro-government speakers have literally read the same general explanation. Obviously, we would much rather be interested in your own thoughts in this regard and subject matter; I am also trying to provoke some of the answers that may not be answered in response to any provocative points, but are raised in the context of painfully important questions that need to be clarified here and now. But once again, it would have been more honest to say that, yes, in the case of this partial settlement, there were certain problems that could not be dealt with, now such and so cosmetically - but you said things that simply did not stand the test of truth. [[Erzsébet Schmuck will be replaced by Ádám Mirkóczki in the notary seat.]] They said, for example, that the funds and resources that the banks unduly took would be returned to those affected by foreign exchange loans in the order of 1000 billion. I could accept the sentence so far, but if you add that there has been a complete settlement, well, we have to sadden you, the fact is that the banks involved have shortened the Hungarian people by several thousand billion forints, whereas you have basically done nothing from the moment they entered the government in 2010. Moreover, it was rightly said that although the banking sector special tax was levied, it was allowed to pass it on in its entirety to customers, people and even to small businesses even higher transfers were subsequently made in the case of the transaction levy than the rate of the tax imposed, called the levy. By the way, we do not claim this, right-wing Members, the communiqué of the bank concerned and its announcement in this matter acknowledge that the whole burden on the general public in terms of transaction fees has been crushed, you sat quietly, you did nothing, you were helpless, which, with a two-thirds mandate, would be ridiculous, to say the least. We know very well how they could have if they wanted to, but they didn't, because they were collaborating with the banks there already. It could be said, therefore, that this collusion became open later, as this year it was announced at exactly national minister level that, in essence, a pact was concluded with the banks, which, according to the pact, no longer intended to create more serious barriers to eviction, the National Asset Manager can only help in the way the bank, the criminal bank, allows. So once again, the proposal before us can be negotiated, supported, and it can be said that, yes, what helps victims and consumers, Jobbik must also vote, and I feel that all responsible Members of Parliament must vote. Just don't lie to our eyes, don't tell us that you've recognized this problem in time and completely sorted it out. Believe me, government credibility would be supported by the fact that if they could see that the action was delayed by years, they intervened years later than they should or should have, but now they realize that something has to be done and at least they're acting partially. You can see it quite clearly when it comes out of the mouth of a pro-government representative to give citizens a legitimate access to it sooner, then I say that this can be a common goal, so I can identify perfectly with it, but the question arises that in April 2010 the HUF 185.12 was the HUF/Swiss franc exchange rate, and then there was a 256 HUF forints forints, essentially at the market rate. How's that? What happened between the two? And how could it be that when Jobbik suggested in 2010 that it should have been forinted at the rate of admission if it had not been done yet, so let's say that they were not HUF 155-160, but at HUF 185 at that time, it was very easy to calculate, each family, with HUF 3 million per contract, would have been a little more than HUF 3 million for all those involved in the so-called foreign exchange crisis. So don't say that you recognized the problem in time, because your first step, many years after the problem occurred, was to introduce the possibility of redemption, A- and B-listed among the victims, because the luckier, the richer, indeed, were reimbursed at 180 forints. Explain to us, we beg you, once, what was the reason for the luckier being able to pay off at a discount rate, the average, simple Hungarian person, and the credit-damaged person got the market rate in his face, above HUF 256? ! [[István Szilárd Németh: Stop talking nonsense! They're getting money back now! That's what you've been campaigning for the past four years.]] So, yeah, maybe now the final wipers will get their money back, but don't cosmeticize, I beg you, press that button and tell us why the lucky ones were able to pay back 180 forints, and why the others got the market rate! Where are the hundred billion? You can talk to banks here and make a pact, but where are the billions? No one has ever been able to answer that professionally. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] By the way, Secretary of State Répássy at least attempted this in front of the Economic Committee, and the issue of nullity was also raised where a baseless accusation was made against Jobbik. Your claim is that we wanted all contracts to be void, and then we should have broken down the houses we built, returned the money to the banks. That's not true, the Jobbik didn't want that. Otherwise, nullity would not automatically mean that, which could only mean that, so it would have stopped only partially by introducing a conditional way of saying what you said. But Secretary of State Répássy's justification was quite amazing to me, where, although it seemed as if he had felt that yes, this settlement was not complete, it is not entirely fair, because he leaves unwarranted money at the banks in the order of 1000 billion, the money between the exchange rate at the time of admission and the forintation at the market rate, leaving this large crowd. The Secretary of State said that it was not possible to touch it, because then those who have suffered foreign currency credit would be better off than those who are forint-credited, and they say that - it is in the Commission's protocol - it is said that if they had benefited from both forints and foreign currency loans in Hungary. The thing is, no. This HUF 3 million per family, which has been lost by those affected since 2010, should be recovered by some means to the Hungarian families, and I must stress the technical changes and facilitations that lie before us, and I also support and support it. [[14.10]] So I'm not saying there's a problem with this cosmetic package, but I'm asking you not to upset public opinion when you explain it. To harass us and the voters behind us, that's one thing, but don't piss off the people involved by talking about a full settlement. You know very well that this is not, let us not stun each other; this package, which improves the situation, can otherwise be voted in. And we can vote with a good heart if the reasons for this are correct and true, and if our proposals, if they understand and want to improve the situation, are accepted. For example, the fact that an audit procedure can be initiated ex officio is absolutely eligible. In the case of the MNB, there are already some questions about the integration of a large part of consumer protection into the organisation, and we see that there is indeed no supervisory board here, whose members could have been confirmed by parliamentary vote and given a controlling role to this organisation. So there are quite serious problems and shortcomings here. And we also see that - not only do I want to mention Lombard Lezing, which has already been mentioned here by one of our fellow Members - there is indeed a practice in Hungary that certain companies are still sending letters to the client and unilaterally amending contracts. And when it was said in the explanatory statement, if I remember correctly, from the mouth of our fellow Member Fidesz, that the system of playing one-sidedly with people's contracts has ceased: that is not true. This is not true either, because the fact is that costs that were set at a percentage level during the forinting process have been treated with interest since 1 February 2015. Therefore, the Faramuci situation may have arisen, although it is correctly stated in your reasoning and in your previous law that interest rates cannot be raised and a basic interest rate increase may not occur for such types of contracts, it has nevertheless occurred that although, once again, the bank cannot raise interest, one of the readers and one of the mailers in its settlement notice was faced with a specific interest rate increase. How could this happen? The media organ concerned, which, by the way, aired this outrageous incident very widely, also found, in terms of the level of transaction interest, that it rose from 5.35% to 6.6 percent. However, according to the interest rules of the forinting, this would not have been possible. Then how did that happen? We are very fortunate in this case that we have a web in front of us, because here they also asked the Hungarian National Bank's competent authority, and they also said that it is a practice to take into account the possible interest-related management costs. So when we talk about how they can no longer play one-sided games on terms of contract, we have to realize that this is not true. Once again, this is why the level of transaction interest may have increased during the settlement. And all the bank had to do was, in this one case, so in that case, it abolished the 1.9 percent treatment cost, but at the same time it made a small increase in the interest rate. And what did he do? He's canceled his contract for treatment. In any event, there is a legal possibility to do so after the amendment of the contract is not unfavourable to the consumer. And by taking advantage of this loophole in this case, it was no longer necessary to take into account the level of the cap on the interest rate premium, and the end result is what we have mentioned, that despite the fact that there is a ban on raising interest rates, in this case this insinuation has occurred. We have to sum up what they've brought up against Jobbik, that we want nothing here, and then we have to break down people's houses and pay back all the money, that's not true. Here's what we want. What one of the leading speakers of the Fidesz, to be more precise, one of the leaders of the motion, said that people should have access to their rights, not some of them, not a third of them, not in such a cosmetic way. The reason we are still fighting for the HUFing of loans at the rate of admission is because this is the only sure way to get people's money back from the exchange rate games, from these mathematical and cube book operations carried out by the non-installed currency. You can campaign by returning a thousand billion to the people now, and we want all the funds we have taken back. We do not want mass bank failures in Hungary; by the way, if we look at the balance sheet or other statistical numbers of the banks concerned, we can see that a full settlement would not bring about this banking system, so these previous alarms are completely unfounded. We've only had a very strong feeling for a long time that the government, although it seems to impose a special banking tax, transaction tax, is still collaborating with the Banking Association at some level. Well, with regard to this so-called accusation, the reality has shown that at the NGM level, you have announced that such a substantive pact has been established in order to boost lending from 2016, which is a good goal. So don't make them think we're looking for the knot and everything you're doing is wrong. It's not like that. It is not so at all, but you should hear the suggestions for improvement, because, as history shows, you will not always be sitting in Parliament with such a voting rate. Now, with almost two-thirds of the mandate, they could still help a lot of Hungarians, and there would still be a full settlement if there were a will to do so. And still, as I mentioned and described, they play one-sidedly with customers' contracts, there may still be interest and other types of increases that hit them, and, as a matter of fact, they left out a very wide social layer of their settlement package, this cosmetic element, but the entire settlement package. They have forgotten those who have already lost their credit, if any, who have already been evicted, who have received apparent assistance within the framework of the National Asset Manager. But it's worth checking out how many people can't even rent their own apartment anymore. I don't want to go down to a blikke level, because this is the kind of newspaper that shows up every day with news that says he's selling his kidney... [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] Don't yell, push a button. Try to behave in accordance with the dignity of Parliament, because...
u2015-04-14-69	Congressmen, I'm in charge of this meeting, and you can continue, Congressman, and anyone can press a button for Congressman.
u2015-04-14-70	So you can see that there are reports on a daily basis that people who have been compromised by foreign currency loans are forced to sell their kidneys on the Internet, which is a crime, which is a crime, so the poor person will get himself into trouble if he succeeds in this operation. We hope that he will not succeed, and that his situation can be resolved in another way, but do not try to make it look like that hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are not affected by this problem in an amazing and vital way, because you have maintained the system that the most difficult people, those who have already been evicted, those who have lost their property ownership, are not helped. They have been left on the side of the road, and we would like at least one compensation fund to be created by the payments made by the commercial banks concerned, which could at least partially settle the fate of these people. But let us not tolerate a situation where sums of a hundred billion are unduly held in the accounts of the commercial banks concerned. However, I must say that I consider this package, which is in front of us to be eligible, but I ask you very much, to be honest about the justification, and to talk about the problems raised, and to finally come up with solutions that are not governed by party colours, but in the interests of the Hungarian people, the public interest. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-14-71	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, notary of the Parliament. He spoke as the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here.
u2015-04-14-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, In recent years, the LMP has put clear and clear proposals on Parliament's table to resolve the foreign exchange credit crisis, such as the ban on unilateral contractual amendments, the elimination of the exchange rate gap or the application of the MNB's central exchange rate as early as 2010. Compared to this, the government has put off years of campaigning or recklessness, and has done so in such a way that subsequent legislation, which is seriously delayed, requires continuous correction. We also see this absolution in the framework of the bill before us, so there is a considerable tension between the title and the content of the bill. The title and nominal purpose of the proposal are to combat abuse in bank accounts. On the basis of its content, however, it would be more appropriate to say that it bears the title that it is another attempt to fully regulate the bank settlement, if it has not been possible to settle all the issues in several circles since last summer. And besides all that, this attempt is probably not the last. According to the fast and fidesz custom, it is almost impossible to do a fair settlement on the basis of a poor accounting law. There have been a lot of problems in the practical implementation of the accounts. However, these are not dealt with in addition to the detailed rules of the settlement dispute. It's like in an apartment in case of a pipe break, I'm starting to fix the light. The light might light up better, but the apartment's still wet. [[14.20]] The problems that exist and are not dealt with are, without the need for completeness, the scarcity of personal scope, incalculable debts, unfulfilled deadlines, interim repayments, massive pollution information. A few words about these. Lack of personal scope. The scope of the law only covers natural persons, even though the unilateral amendment of the contract and the unfair exchange rate gap affected the business sector in the same way. For free-use but residential mortgage loans, for example, if it was taken on by a self-employed person, why is the settlement not applicable? The self-employed, as it is not a distinct business and private property, are considered to be virtually natural persons and end-users in these transactions. Unpredictable debts. With the specified parameters, it is difficult to double-twist a settlement programme to produce the same result. This basically undermines the credibility of the procedure. The labour force sucked out of bank information is a serious risk. The more attention these stalling and chaotic processes draw, the less attention to normal operation and the greater the possibility of failure or malfunctioning. Unfulfilled deadlines. The deadlines previously set cannot be met. This has been said by the experts since the adoption of the law, but the voluntarian government believes that all professional feedback is just whining. The deadline for information, transfers and conversions simply cannot be set. You don't even know when to pay the new payments. Mid-term repayment. You don't know at what rate anyone who signed up for early repayment during the mid-term could have done it. Finally, the scope of the problems: massive pollution information. Banks have to send out to customers the amount of paper they need to destroy entire forests, not to mention the health loss of mailmen. [[Noise from the Fidesz benches.]] It still doesn't make any sense when they're supposed to be sent out. And if it's for a foreign address, there's a huge cost. My fellow Members are surprised, by the way, but obviously they are only surprised because environmental protection and environmental issues are not important to them at all. [[Gábor Bányai: Don't be ridiculous.]] That's right. [[Happy Stephen: Set something you can prove.]] In conclusion, this bill, although handling some problems, does not address the most important. In addition, it makes it clear once again that the original law was born without thought, without agreement, an example of the usual fidesz, bad law. And they can't say we didn't draw attention to that back then. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-04-14-73	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We're at the end of the lead speaker's round. There's no independent congressman in the room. No one's come forward for a two-minute comment. No one signed up in advance in writing, but as a normal word applicant, two of them did. First, I give the floor to Congressman Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-74	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, [[For Erzsébet Schmuck to leave:]] Let me start at the end while Erzsébet Schmuck is still in the Chamber. I guess it's not such a big deal when we're worried about the amount of paper we're gonna charge. Believe me, I'm a big environmentalist, too, but when we can't get into anything else, it's just the amount of documents we've created. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: I said something else, but you weren't listening!]] And how many trees you have to cut out to make that kind of paper, and for poor mailmen, what a load that is, understanding the amount of mail that the postmen carry, that's fair, but when we can't get into anything else, there's nothing wrong with this law, I guess. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Then you didn't pay enough attention, because it's just a lot!]] Thank you, I have the floor now, and I think I'll have more criticism, if you'd like to wait, I'll say so. On the other hand, as we have seen many times before, we have now seen that the coalition of MSZP and Jobbik, together with a hint of LMP, is working great. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: This is weak even for you! György Szilágyi: Wow!]] I think that when Bertalan Tóth and Dániel Z. Carpathian say to each other that this law came to the House in haste and unprepared, we should in fact say that if it is and there are errors in it - and in many cases I do not want to argue with their critical comments in a certain way, because there is certainly some insight that is well thought in this - but it has never been so in Hungary before. There has been no precedent for accounting banks in Hungary; but the situation, my fellow Members, is that it is not very much anywhere else. So what I'm trying to say is that there hasn't been any experience in the process of accounting banks in the past, how this should be done. Of course, the dexterity of banks and financial institutions, as obviously you, we were expecting, we could all count on that. Obviously, if the banks were in reverse, a lot of people would try to act like this by trying different tricks. But what tricks these will be and what alternative loopholes banks and financial institutions are trying to find, we didn't see that coming, you might have seen it, but we don't have a magic ball, and we didn't see it coming. I would also like to draw your attention first of all to the representatives of the Socialist Party, although Bertalan Tóth made his speech as a lead speaker, and then left the room that we would not have needed the clearing law and we would not have needed the help of foreign exchange creditors in the first place if, during the socialists' governance, the banks had not been released in respect of foreign exchange loans, they would not have allowed these foreign currency loans to be released without any limit or control. So I would like to remind the honourable Socialists that until 2002, we had not talked much or only very little about foreign exchange loans in Hungary. After 2002, if you will, between 2002 and 2010, if you will, those eight years of foreign exchange loans increased in such large amounts as we have seen. It is therefore very strange, I must say once again that the socialists have not learned from their past mistakes, rather than quietly supporting such initiatives by bowing their heads, we can only see that they are able to express criticisms. Bertalan Tóth also mentioned that we did nothing for four years. I can only ask you what you have done for eight years, dear socialists. Why did they even let it get this far? In relation to the private bankruptcy case, MSZP has made several proposals earlier. We also heard that from the head speaker of the MSZP. My question again is why it was not brought before the Parliament between 2002 and 2010, if it felt so important, socially, socially and economically important. So to talk about something so that they had the opportunity to kick the ball into the gate playing football on the same track before, while practically the ball wasn't taken over, let alone treated, not even looked at, then I don't understand why they're doing such things in opposition. The burden of responsibility may be a little less so. Mr Dániel Kárpát, lead speaker, I have written down a few more reactions to the words of my fellow Member. The congressman said it should have been accounted for at 185 forints. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's not what I said!]] You said it yourself, I literally took notes. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You took the wrong note!]] The accounting makes it about 190 forints... - not just the forinting, the Jobbik misses here, because it only looks at the forinting. You have to look at the accounts. If we add everything together, obviously with smaller or larger differences, the possibility of repaying loans is considered to be about 190 HUF. At the time when this law was adopted, exactly the leader of the Fidesz faction, if I remember correctly, Antal Rogán presented over several tables at a press conference about what it meant for the indebted households and the benefits of accounting and HUFing combined for households. Speaking of 185 forints, I can give you a better exchange rate. We could go into number war. In the summer of 2008, when the crisis broke out in Hungary, if I remember correctly, it was a Swiss franc exchange rate of 136, 138, 140 forints. It is a pity to hurt the final repayments because otherwise they had the opportunity and the opportunity at a rate of HUF 180 [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Who hurt them?]] ease themselves and get rid of the credit burden. They could have said so, but we'd like to get it back at 136 forints. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's what you should have said!]] But they paid me back at 180 forints, and I didn't meet a last-minute wiper, I'll tell you honestly, who would have been dissatisfied; you might have, but I didn't. 'Cause at least they got some kind of solution to that. [[14.30]] So I briefly tried to respond to the points here as the lead speaker of the faction. I would just like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, that we should try to strike a healthy national minimum - especially if Jobbik has commented - on issues of a strategic nature in this House, within the walls of the house and in everyday life, which can really help hundreds of thousands of families in distress, Hungarian households in distress, and at least on these issues, if we do not always agree on everything ideologically, politically, but at least try to think in the same direction in Hungarian national interests. There may be minor differences of opinion, but I think that overall, and perhaps this could have been said by all the speakers, that overall, the accounting law and its additional amendment are taking things in a better direction than before. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-14-75	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Répássy asked for the floor. Here.
u2015-04-14-76	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I only asked for a two-minute comment. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát quoted me, but I think he did not exactly quote me. There has indeed been a debate between us within the walls of the house about the consequences, the impact it would have if foreign exchange credit contracts were converted or converted at the rate of admission. I maintain my position that if the cost and interest of the foreign currency loan were retained by the HUF loan converted at the exchange rate at the time of admission, it would certainly be more favourable to the loan contract, its overall terms would be more favourable, its total rate of credit than if someone had taken up the loan in HUF. That is why I think that this would be an unfair position or an unfair solution, because those who did not borrow foreign currency at the time paid rather high interest rates and a considerable cost. So somewhere between the two is the truth, so it is not right to automatically - and I am trying to influence Jobbik a little bit, so that they have the position to convert these loans at the rate of admission, but under the same conditions as the terms of the foreign exchange loan agreement, it would certainly be better for those who took on foreign exchange loans. I am not saying that it is undoubtedly true, these people have suffered a great deal, and I do not dispute that it would be appropriate to alleviate their damage. This is done by foreign currency credit accounting laws to alleviate these damages, but the position you represent may be unfair to the forint lenders, against those who have already taken on a forint loan. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2015-04-14-77	Honourable Members, I can't open the two-minute loop yet. Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik, is next.
u2015-04-14-78	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I must respond to the words of Michael Witzmann. I have looked at this, the tenth speech by the former Member in this term. There were two of them in 2014. I guess by now you've learned that fidesz communication panel, the Fidesz communication panel, the Jobbik-MSZP coalition. [[Mihály Witzmann: I wasn't personal.]] Congressman, I would like to draw your attention to... - as you said, press a button, and then tell me your opinion, don't yell at me. I would like to draw your attention, Congressman, although I know that you are a new Member, and that is why you cannot be accused of this, but unfortunately, ask your fellow parties, there are fellow parties here who have destroyed this country with the MSZP in the great coalition for the last 20 years. There are fellow parties who, in a large coalition, caused this foreign exchange loan policy with the MSZP, which in this country has sent foreign currency lenders to where they have sent them! Not at all, it must be admitted that in the last five years, it has really been up to you, because you have been on the government, you are on the government right now, trying to resolve this unblessed and untenable situation at some level. It is true that this situation was not arranged in our opinion as quickly and as practical as it could have been arranged, but it was indeed attempted. The Jobbik Movement for Hungary has constantly supported you in these efforts in the previous cycle, as we are also interested in the fact that the unblessed state that is still present in Hungary at the moment, we are trying to solve it. But let's get back to this law in particular. The bill before us was inspired by the same social need as the fundamental rights rule, the XXXVIII of 2014. Law. This social need was due to the fact that banks and financial institutions engaged in various lending activities used the framework of the relevant regulatory environment in full for their benefit and, in many cases, unfair behaviour. The maladministration and no less outrageous abuses in the financial sector have had a detrimental effect on both the functioning of the economy and on the everyday lives of individual people. Abuse and infringements could take place because, within the framework of the existing regulatory environment, the organisations responsible for them, in particular the financial supervision at all times, did not perform their tasks properly. Far be it from me to defend the interests of the banks, but we must state that banks that are essentially seeking profit and profit cannot be expected to limit themselves in increasing profits. [[Happy István's intervention.]] And even though you speak into it and say it in a state of outrage, István Happily, it was the greatest that we had thrown in your eyes, and we cast it in the eyes of the MSZP governments, that it is true that if the fox is allowed into the henhouse, then don't be surprised if the foxes are eaten. Yes, the banks should have been regulated by you, just like... [[For signal:]] I mean, the chickens. [[Defiance.]] The banks should have been regulated as they did, and they constantly refer to you as following Western examples. Why didn't the same Austrian bank take the same steps and the credit policy, why didn't it pursue a credit policy, say, in Austria, where appropriate, such as in Hungary? Because it was properly restricted and could do so within the appropriate framework in Austria, and you have not dealt with this at all in the past period. It is clear, in particular, that unfair conduct as a standard practice for them is allowed by loose control and insufficient supervision, even in addition. Of course, regulation is also important, but it is much more important that public bodies exercising control and supervision carry out their tasks and impose pressure on these operators to behave fairly on the market. The amendment before us seeks to amend a law that is perhaps not even six months old. In my view, the amendment has failed in its concept, since for those involved in accountability procedures, whether the supervisory body authorised for control or the court assessing the action, it seeks to bring to the legal level meticulous detailed rules which can be clearly derived from the legislation already in force and can be dealt with by existing legal institutions. Legislation at the statutory level should include guidance that clarifies the desired, correct behaviour for all stakeholders, but does not go away in detail. Debts and life situations affected by settlement are very diverse and cannot be made up of specific rules. During the drafting of the underlying legislation, the preparatory parties have not been sufficiently thorough and prudent, which is why the law needs to be amended and refurbished. The fair functioning of the financial sector will not result from the proliferation of increasingly complex and detailed regulations; the consistent and effective work of public bodies, primarily responsible for compliance with the provisions of the law, cannot be replaced by new forced legislation, and the appropriate institutional and personal conditions cannot be replaced by the adoption of new laws in this area. So this should be the first thing to change, and you may not like it when we are openly and honestly expressing our views about what is your responsibility. It would be much easier if you could draw those conclusions, look at yourself and acknowledge the mistakes that you have made in the past, much more sympathetic to people than the arrogance and the arrogance that still characterizes you, even though I feel that the current social conditions, current polls or elections are becoming less and less a cause for your continued arrogance and pride. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[14.40]]
u2015-04-14-79	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, We're gonna have two-minute comments. Before I give you the floor, I would like to draw your attention not to judge each other, but to try to argue with each other's thoughts. In this spirit, I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-80	Mr President, Dear House, I am indeed trying to refrain from the qualifications of persons, but there was a sentence here called a pathetic argument, to which I must respond, that a Jobbik-MSZP coalition - the idea is ridiculous - would attack the perfect government, the result of which was the perfect solution. Let's not make jokes. If we were to talk about a coalition, even if we were to refer it back to today's votes, my fellow Member would like to look at who Fidesz is coalitioned with in relation to ISIS. Shall we talk about Fidesz-DK coalition? [[Noise, interruptions from the Fidesz ranks.]] Let's see, who are the members of the Quaestor coalition? The MSZP, who has made a substantial state guarantee of 17 billion dollars behind Quaestor's activities, and Fidesz is also a member of the Quaestor Coalition, because for four and a half years he has idly watched the horror that has happened in this regard in the money market. But let's refrain from speaking personally, I'd like to ask you two specific questions, obviously there will be an answer. If you say, my Fidesz fellow Member, that you are on the right track, you are going the right way, answer me two things. One is that, after the imposition of the banking sector special tax, when they saw that this whole burden was passed on to the population, it was incorporated into card fees, incorporated into various bank charges, why didn't the government take any action, and why didn't it create a legislative climate for supervision, consumer protection? My second question is also quite clear: when the transaction fee was levied, the financial institutions concerned admitted in their communications that they not only passed it on fully, but also passed on more to Hungarian people in the case of small entrepreneurs than they were otherwise burdened. Why didn't the government do anything? Why didn't you create a climate for the Hungarian state apparatus operating supervision or any other device system? So the question is, when the banks took people's money, why didn't you do anything about it, and why are they silent about it now? Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-14-81	Congressman Mihály Witzmann is next in two minutes, Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-82	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would react very quickly, first to my colleague György Szilvasy. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks: Szilágyi!]] I wasn't personal, Congressman. I was trying to tell you in a constructive debate. [[Dr. Répássy Róbert: Szilvasy was another! Defiance.]] My arguments, I tried to participate in this, and I wanted to share my views closely related to the subject with you, instead of personalizing. On the other hand, you immediately began your speech by making a comment about my person, not only about my name, but also referring to the fact that I am sitting here as a new Member, how many times I have spoken, others, very clever, because the Internet works fast on your computer, and you can hit the keys very quickly, otherwise it is commendable and I am pleased. But I don't think it should be personal because it's just a fact. You're a new Member, I'm a new Member, that's what I said before, that we should try to work together. The fact that I am a new Member does not give you the right to express any criticism. I'm sure he would have preferred that if Jobbik's candidate had won in my constituency, it didn't happen that way, it would be possible to try again in 2018. I would like to respond to the comments of my fellow Member, Mr Kárpát: a perfect government. I didn't say that, Congressman. That's what you said. If you think so, I can only be happy about this, but I do not think that the government, the current government of Hungary, is perfect. Yes, there are mistakes, there are problems that need fixing, but the fact that it's a perfect government, only you said that, I didn't say that. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: There were two more specific questions!]] In answer to your question about the coalition, I could say that in the last elections, with the exception of Tapolca, in many cases, whether in the case of municipal elections or in the case of parliamentary elections, I can name examples and names in several places, where we have witnessed that both MSZP and Jobbik were standing behind the same candidate. That's why I said the coalition was back on line. [[György Szilágyi: An example!]] If I've offended you, then I apologize to you, but my opinion is still mine. Thank you very much. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: There are still 10 seconds left, give me the example.]] Siofok!
u2015-04-14-83	Dear Parliament, Let us raise the stakes, for example, let us try to remember each other's names well, as I say as President, that Mr Szilágyi is sitting in the benches of Jobbik. [[György Szilágyi: Szilvásy was at MSZP!]] And he said it. But we're going to do this chronologically and according to factions, over time, everyone will remember, and as I said, try to think about each other's thoughts, not their own. In this spirit, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát is the speaker requesting the next normal word. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-84	Mr President, Dear House, I promise you that I am trying to ease the mood in so far as I have not been answered any of the specific questions I have just had, but only one of the most unqualified ones I have, my specific question still stands. The FTT was one of the questions that when it was passed on, why the government hadn't done anything for years, the banking sector special tax was my other question, that, after it was turned over, why the government hadn't done anything. These questions hang, but let's go a little further. Here - not even in my speech as the lead speaker - was a very important circumstance, namely what happened to the institution of private bankruptcy or family bankruptcy. It doesn't matter what name we refer to it as, when we have already passed a successful test from Western Europe and other regions, I think this is an excellent method for Hungary, and it could help precisely a circle that is affected by the bill before us. So, to praise and support one more thing, the eviction moratorium or the suspension of executions until, say, family bankruptcy comes into effect, I think it's an excellent decision. It is an excellent decision, even if I were to put it in a way that I would have been able to draw up this bill or amendment, I would have described it as pushing them out until the problem was resolved. Now it can be described and codified in other ways, but that would have been the point. However, we must say that there are huge contradictions with regard to family bankruptcy or private bankruptcy, and I believe that this debate is suitable for trying to resolve them. Remember, Christian Democrats have campaigned with the private bankrupt institution before 2010, so they have already used this otherwise excellent package as a political tool in order to get to the government, and the problem is that, not in the current cycle, but in the last four years, perhaps a proposal has reached committee level, but it has also been withdrawn. He certainly didn't get to Parliament, but in 2012, I recall that KDNP's group leader or deputy group leader responded to this question at a press conference that they were about to lead the private institution through. Jobbik also obviously operated on this in 2010 and wanted to reach it, but we weren't in the government, we didn't have the means to carry it through. What's much worse is that in 2014 there was another campaign of pro-government representatives with the private bankrupt institution after four years of two-thirds government. So the four years were short, and then another campaign series followed. We are now at a time when something is expected to be laid before us by 2016. I also asked those questions in the form of an immediate question, not only on my own, as we also have questions from voters arriving at the reception hour. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] I didn't hear it, but he'll press a button and surely share his seedy thoughts with us. The point is, therefore, that we have asked these questions, and we have not yet received reassuring answers. We would like to be informed and take advantage of this debate about how KDNP and the government imagine the private institution, as the leaked press information mass is very harsh. So we should disperse the misunderstandings so that it does not burn on you, that you want to intervene in people's lives in a way that is too meaty. I mean, what did they show up? The remote supervision of bank accounts, the fact that the bankruptcy administrator or bankruptcy commissioner you have appointed will be able to tell the elderly family member whether the family car has to be sold, whether or not the child can get to his tuition, so someone wants to sit directly or figuratively next to the head of the family and help him allocate the monthly money that Jobbik believes he has no right to do. So Jobbik in Hungary does not want to create a situation in which everyday expenses of Hungarian families are interfered with by anyone, government level, parliament or well-heated offices. This isn't the way. Jobbik's model has two pillars. According to our first pillar, a family helper should be assigned to the family members who voluntarily enter the system, who are legally executed and who are able to convey, represent the interests of the family against the creditor financial institution, thus achieving, where appropriate, an extension of the duration of the loan, a reduction in the repayment and, obviously, a description of the unjustified elements of the amount of the debt. So this would be one of the pillars. Jobbik believes that at the latest after five years, the debtor should be released without debt so that he can get his life back. The other pillar, which is at least as important, is the provision of free re-training programmes in order to return to the labour market, and yes, this is linked to the proposal before us, as you referred to this institution as regards the expiry of the eviction moratorium and the suspension of implementation. If we are to argue about this, let us get into the framework of the general debate that we are getting information about the elements mentioned here, and we are discussing them, and we are discussing them. [[14.50]] Jobbik therefore believes that it should not be so deeply involved in the lives of families, because the KDNP's proposal, which has been pushed around for several years, which is still not before us and which cannot be seen in its entirety, could pose similar dangers, at least the mass of press information about it could pose such risks. I would therefore like to say this once again, and it would be very good to have the government, in addition to this cosmetic package, in addition to responding to why people were allowed to charge the transaction fee, why they allowed people to charge the banking sector special tax, why they had made a pact with the Banking Association, why they would accept conditions that would not raise further barriers to eviction later, or whether the Bank still decides whether it is possible to help or not to help the National Asset Manager. These issues should therefore be disbanded and an instrument brought in for the private failing institution, in which, in my view, a mass of budgetary resources should be poured out in order to finally help two social departments. I mentioned one, who was completely left out of the arrangement by Fidesz-KDNP, who had been left out of the arrangement, who had already fallen credit, lost their home, their families were torn apart, their situation was inexorable, and many times without their own faults. They didn't have anything for them. The National Asset Manager was the only thing they promised, but a lot of people here can't afford to rent back their own former property. The other social group, who could be helped by the private failure institution, are those who are still trying very hard to repay, to stay on their feet, perhaps there is still one employee in the family, and they are using all their resources to preserve at least some of their former standard of living. For them, every month's delay is very painful, so I ask not only, but I call on the pro-government representatives to disperse these obscurities, finally to take action, action and action, and to give concrete answers to our specific questions here, as this would create the dignity of Parliament, which I believe is not respected by those who cannot put concrete answers to concrete points on the table. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-14-85	Dear Parliament, Thanking you for the comment, I ask if anyone would like to comment in two minutes or in the framework of a normal comment. [[No signal.]] I'm pretty sure you didn't. This means that the general debate is closed as no one has applied for further speeches. I will ask the rapporteur if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Congressman Gulyás says yes. You have the floor, please.
u2015-04-14-86	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I thank you very much for the comments made in the debate, because if we decode all the comments and criticisms which have been made, if I understand it correctly, that all the groups are in favour of this bill, which are not, in part, far beyond the content of the bill before us. However, the fact that there have been other criticisms moves me to briefly try to respond to them. The first question is whether Jobbik has any moral basis for accusing us of a pact with the banks. Of course, in the context of freedom of speech, this can be done outside Parliament and Parliament, but I would like to point out to everyone that only the bank special tax has required the banks to pay an extra HUF 800 billion in the last five years. The transaction tax has brought an additional 100 billion in budget contributions. The losses related to the end-payment also had to be borne by the banks, because here, it is true, some of this could otherwise be described from the bank tax in one year; and the Accounting Act represents an additional burden of EUR 1000 billion for the banks. If you think about the political decision making of the banks that took place in Hungary between 1990 and 2010, you can hardly accuse the government that came into power after 2010 of bank friendship without being ridiculous. As regards the comments on the accountability law, we have tried several times in the general debate, and, of course, in the spirit of humility and modesty, we believe that we have not been able to make clear the clear arguments and that the opposition parties, especially Jobbik, have not been able to understand them. So, to be clear and clear: the decision taken by the Parliament with reference to the Curia's decision is the law which we have adopted under the Act of Accountancy and which we are now clarifying, modifying and even supplementing with procedural rules for faster implementation, resulting in an average reduction of between 20 and 40 percent of repayments. This is exactly the same as if this reduction of between 20 and 40 percent had been applied in the exchange rate. Therefore, given that the level of unlawfulness was different for individual banks, there will obviously be a different reduction for individual borrowers as well as for consumers. Some people get very, very good money, some people get less money, but there's going to be a significant reduction everywhere. On average, we can say that if the forint had taken place at 190 HUF and there had been no other cost description, no other legal consequences arising from the unlawfulness of the unilateral amendment of the contract, the same would have been the case for the authentic ones. So it is simply not true, or at least it is not accurate, it is misleading, the indication of reality in false colors to say that the forints were made at 258 forints. In 258 or 256 forints, the forints were made in such a way that, by the way, a significant part of the debt, between 20 and 40 percent of the bank's debt, was forced to be released as a result of the law we adopted here. As for the better point about nullity, we still have no answer in the debate as to how Jobbik imagines it. For the time being, the principles of law, which have been unchanged since Roman law, have been applied in Hungary despite any accusations that have otherwise been made in this regard. The legal consequence of nullity is basically the restoration of the original state. Nothing would be as harmful and detrimental to borrowers as it should be restored to the original situation. From this point on, we can say that if a person acts in the interest of borrowers, he should not, under any circumstances, plead nullity, because if something is contrary to the interests of borrowers and consumers, then it is certain that the determination of nullity would be. Final repayment and bank accountability are therefore not against each other. There will be those who are better off with the current accountability law than if they had been involved in the final repayment in 2011, just because there will be a higher rate of the benefit that the Act adopted by Parliament, the Act of Accountancy, will receive as a result. The Member first began to criticise the agreement with the Banking Association - I am thinking of Mr Z. Carpathian - and then he indicated that they also agreed that the start of lending was important. Indeed, this is one of the tools to start lending, that is to say, a particularly high bank special tax, which remains in force at European level even after the agreement, which is, however, correct, and by reducing it, we are able to ensure that banks are able to enforce a guarantee that lending will take place to a greater extent than before, and that the base rate of credit below 2 per cent is clearly also affected by forint rates. The combined impact can trigger a flow of borrowing which will clearly have a positive impact on growth in the economy. If we are talking about the Grand Coalition, then I do not suggest to the Member, especially because he found the accusation of the MSZP-Jobbic Coalition unfair, and then the vote in Kurdistan as an example may not be a good thing because Jobbik and MSZP voted together. So I am not saying that this will decide who is in the coalition, but what the Member has chosen, by the way, with what my fellow Member Witzmann has said, he has just confirmed. So I think that Jobbik in the future would be better off if, during the accusations of the Grand Coalition, which he is expressing, at the same time in an extraordinary way, he took it upon himself that if it were to be said, he would rather not refer to the current vote in this case. Overall, we can say that the large coalition reference, which my colleague Szilágyi mentioned in connection with the creation of foreign exchange loans, is a completely incompetent, air-borne claim. In 2002, when the Socialist Party came to government, there were a few thousand foreign exchange credit agreements in Hungary, and in 2010 the number of them exceeded 1 million. All the measures to which the final repayment, the exchange rate barrier and the asset manager, which, by the way, helped the borrowers in difficulty, to whom the Member has mentioned several times, who have not been able to pay their rent for a longer period of time, have helped a total of 360,000 people in the previous cycle. [[15.00]] Now the decision taken by the Parliament by adopting the Act of Settlement will completely eliminate foreign exchange lending in Hungary. The Swiss franc's exchange rate on the government - in this respect, the right-wing and socialist arguments also did not differ - is a pity, since the Swiss franc increased by 25% compared to the euro. It is impossible to take account of this in Hungarian economic policy. Finally, let me draw attention to the fact that, of course, we are all following the events of Hungarian internal politics and we have been informed of the outcome of the Sunday election, but this does not change the fact that Jobbik will be elected representative of this Parliament in an individual district at the moment, and 94 of the governing parties. Compared to this, the level of instructional style and arrogance we have experienced from the better Members can hardly be multiplied by the fact that if you didn't give it to God, they won not one, but five or six districts, which is still far from enough to get even a quarter of the seats in Parliament. So I would suggest to my better fellow Members that, if they do not show modesty to the whole election result, but at least not in a completely instructive, arrogant tone, they bring to the attention of the governing parties that, by the way, the bill we have put forward is fundamentally in agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-14-87	Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill on energy efficiency until closure. The submission was made in T/4285. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Szabó, Minister of State of the Ministry of National Development, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2015-04-14-88	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear House, If I may, I would like to begin with a fundamental idea in this context: it is in every state's primary interest to fix energy efficiency directives in accordance with its national energy policy. The purpose of the bill before us and before you is to establish the legislation necessary for the transposition of the EU directive on energy efficiency in 2012 27 and to make the related amendments. By adopting the bill and announcing it to the EU Commission, Hungary fulfils its obligations in the European Union, thereby indirectly contributing to reducing primary energy consumption and energy imports at Community level and improving energy security. Improving energy efficiency will help reduce energy costs for both retail and industrial consumers. If I may, some of the principles used in the drafting of the draft legislation. The lowest and easiest level to achieve has been optimized. We have sought to ensure that there is as much external integration of resources as possible. I am thinking primarily of financing improvements from EU sources and quota revenues. We have taken into account the best cost-benefit levels and indicators, and we are trying to prefer investments and investments that support this. Sustainable operation and security of supply are priorities, if you will, one of the principles of the law before us. The aim is not to impose the different requirements in public energy tariffs, and to keep all actual development money and energy efficiency measures in the sector, thus helping to further save energy and increase energy efficiency; the minimum burden is the scope of the designated obligation and, at the same time, to comply with the standards set by the European Union for us in the directive. With this bill, the EU directive, which will be transposed into national law, aims to create a Community framework of energy efficiency measures that will ensure the promotion at EU level, thereby meeting the European Union's energy efficiency target of about 20% by 2020. On the basis of this Directive, each Member State should set its own indicative energy efficiency target. The aim is to integrate this into the EU's overall energy policy and to achieve a uniform energy efficiency of about 20 per cent. Hungary defined this as 18 per cent, so many reductions in energy use have been foreseen in the legislation. The measures contained in the bill support the fulfilment of the national target. This is also supported by the provision that cost-effective and professional energy audits will be made available to all final users. So we will have fixed and reliable numbers with a real picture. Under the new legislation, those wishing to carry out an energy audit activity must have a specific qualification, meet practical requirements and report their intention to carry out the activity through a registration organisation. This register must be registered by the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office and verified the content related to professionalism. In accordance with the provisions of the directive, the adoption of the bill will make it mandatory for large companies to carry out energy audits. This should be done for the first time by 5 December 2015, but in order to have time to prepare for this, this will not be accompanied by special retaliations until 31 December 2016. After that, the energy audits should be carried out every four years by large companies. The purpose of the bill is also to exempt large companies which have ISO 50001 standards, using the option offered by the directive, as they comply with the different standards as certified by the introduction of the energy management system. The Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office will be patient, as I said, due to the lack of energy auditing obligations, and will not be charged to these companies until 31 December 2016. According to the bill, an information website informs everyone, energy consumers, about energy efficiency and energy saving methods, systems and the financial and legal framework for energy efficiency. Of course, the general public, the SME sector, the small and medium-sized enterprise sector, and the large enterprise sector, are also included under the. On the basis of the bill, as of 1 January 2016, we will be obliged to provide information and advice to retail energy companies, which they are obliged to comply with on their customer service or on their website, also in order to provide better information to energy consumers. This will also ensure full transparency and availability of information, especially for the general public, but also for all customers. In accordance with the provisions of the Directive, the bill provides for a 3 per cent annual obligation to renovate the entire floor area of buildings owned and used by the central government for the period up to 2020. This also coincides with the new EU funding cycle. We also comply with a directive obligation when imposing a new saving value equal to one-and-a-half percent of the annual energy sales to final customers. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Using the option offered by the Directive, Hungary intends to achieve end-use energy savings through so-called alternative policy measures. The government will be responsible for developing the necessary policy measures and their control system in the future. In line with the requirements of the Directive, the bill requires an institutional level cost-benefit analysis of the feasibility potential of high-efficiency cogeneration and efficient district heating and cooling. [[15.10]] This applies, inter alia, to the construction of a new heat-based power-generating facility, the design of recyclable waste heat-generating industrial installations, and this obligation also exists for major renovations. In accordance with Article 4 of the Directive, Member States are required to develop a long-term strategy to encourage the renovation of national private and public buildings for residential and commercial purposes. The national building energy strategy meeting the objectives shall include, inter alia, an overview of the national building stock based on statistical sampling, the development of policy measures to encourage cost-effective renovations. This was already done in February of this year, and this was also the basis for the bill before us. Dear Parliament, The bill before you contributes to meeting the EU's 20% energy efficiency target by 2020, including the national target, which is an obligation for Hungary to join the EU. To this end, the available resources, which are mainly external resources and partly internal resources from quota sales, provide adequate format coverage to enable both retail and medium-sized companies and large companies to find available sources for their energy renovations. I am convinced that with the measures set out in the bill, we will fulfil our EU obligations by simultaneously supporting Hungarian economic operators in the changing legislative environment and also serving the interests of Hungarian society. In view of all this, I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the bill before us with their proposals and with their vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-14-89	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We are now going to have speeches from our representatives, and we are going to hear the lead speakers in the first round. First, I give the floor to Mr Szilárd Németh, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-90	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill on energy efficiency is linked on several points to the reduction of overhead costs. That is why we considered it important to speak in favour of this bill. I would like to highlight two points in terms of the reduction of the overhead. One is that, by transposing this directive, by including it in law, we can obviously prevent and reduce the sharp attack in Brussels that concerns the domestic reduction of overhead costs. On the other hand, with the adoption of this EU directive, one of the objectives of the directive becomes clear to us, with many other aims, of course, in addition to boosting the economy or environmental aspects, that Hungarian families, final consumers and domestic businesses, investors can obtain energy cheaper or, if they so wish, reduce their energy bills. Well, the objective of the bill tabled by the Government and before us - of course its primary objective, which is about energy efficiency - is to establish legislation at the level of law necessary for the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council and to make the necessary amendments to it. The Directive had to be transposed by Member States by 5 June 2014. On 10 December 2014, as we had already discussed in the Parliament, the Government made a decision on issues of conceptual risk to the transposition of the directive, and the transposition legislation could then be finalised. On the basis of the above, Hungary did not notify the national rules ensuring the transposition of the directive until 5 June 2014, and the Commission initiated infringement proceedings against us, in which it decided on 25 March this year to refer this matter to the Court of Justice of the European Union. Here is a very serious fine, a daily fine of over 15 thousand euros per day, hovering over the country's head. However, as a result of the discussions with the Commission, the Commission decided to await the early timetable for the adoption of the transposition legislation promised by the Government and to refrain from bringing legal proceedings, as you have heard and read in the press this morning. Dear Parliament, Once again, I would like to say that the inclusion of this directive in Hungary's legislation will create a Community framework of energy efficiency measures that will ensure the promotion of energy efficiency throughout the European Union, thereby meeting the European Union's target of 20 percent energy efficiency by 2020, as the State Secretary said in his speech. On the basis of this Directive, each Member State, including our home country, should set a national indicative energy efficiency target, which should ensure overall achievement of the EU's single target of 20 per cent. The measures included in the bill ensure that the national target is met, under the conditions and with the points mentioned in detail by the Secretary of State, so I would not mention them. However, I think it is worth pointing out that, by adopting a package of legislation for the transposition of the directive, Hungary is also indirectly contributing to reducing primary energy consumption and energy imports at Community level, improving energy security and reducing greenhouse gas emissions cost-effectively to mitigate the effects of climate change. The transition to a more energy efficient economy will help final consumers to reduce energy costs for Hungarian families and domestic businesses, speed up the uptake of innovative technological solutions and improve the competitiveness of industry. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz fraction supports all of this and will vote in favour of the bill. I ask the members of the factions, my fellow Members, to act in the same way. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-04-14-91	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Bertalan Tóth, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, It sounds very good in words, what we have heard so far, but less in actions, which means Hungary's energy efficiency policy and measures. This Act is listed in point 6 of the legislative programme submitted by the Government to Parliament for the spring session in 2015. The explanatory statement states that the purpose of the bill is to save energy and to summarise the basic rules on promoting energy efficiency in order to comply with Community law. The planned date of submission in this programme was January 2015, and the government planned to accept in March 2015 that the Parliament would do so. In comparison, the bill was submitted only on 7 April. With the directive being transposed, the government was too late. The deadline for implementation was 5 June 2014, and the European Commission launched infringement proceedings against Hungary for failure to do so, as we have heard. In fact, it has brought proceedings before the European Court of Justice and has also initiated a fine for failing to transpose the directive. [[15.20]] Recent news, as my fellow Member said, is that we are confident that if we finally manage to do this harmonisation activity and adopt the legislation, then perhaps we will not have to pay Hungary thousands of euros a day. While, over the last two and a half years, the Member States of the European Union have outlined at least fundamental directions, planned measures in their reports to the European Commission, in relation to the planned implementation of the Directive, the Hungarian documents have been completely obscured, i.e. that no government decision has been taken on the transposition of the directive. The above also confirms that the Orbán government does not care about efficient energy use. Although the various strategic documents correctly define the objectives, increasing energy efficiency has not been at the heart of the government's energy policy measures. On the producer side, banning high-efficiency cogeneration from a mandatory take-over system has essentially resulted in the return of past polluting and less efficient technologies without any substantial progress being made on the user side. Artificially constrained retail prices are only a temporary solution to reduce energy costs, but they do not even encourage a more efficient and efficient use of energy for those who would have the funding for renovation. This is also probably the reason why government programmes that encourage energy saving have also stopped. In the spring of 2011, the government virtually abolished the mandatory electricity relief support for cogeneration producers. The government justified the destruction of the KÁT system with the intention to eliminate the alleged social injustices, however, the price of electricity did not decrease compared to expectations of substantial price reductions, and the majority of related power plants owned by municipal authorities also paid both Robin Hood tax and the sectoral special tax on revenue from 1 July 2011, which made their operation short-term unsustainable. There were frozen costs, which may have resulted in several billion HUF claims for damages, which would require the Hungarian State to face. And with the destruction of energy efficiency-enhancing investments, the old wasteful hot water boilers, which produce less heat for consumers from more primary energy, have been restored in more cities, as I mentioned. The difference is finally paid by the state on taxpayers' money because of the price freeze. The new co-generation conversion fee introduced by the district heating system to reduce the market tension did not provide a meaningful solution, so additional payment obligations were imposed ad hocly for MOL and partly for Hungarian Electricity Industries, and we can also see in today's newspaper article that the municipalities also have to reach very deep into their pockets to compensate for this. Today, even in Szombathely, 100 million HUF is to be transferred to the district heating company. The further consequence of the destruction of the KÁT system is that the main installations of the shut down power plants - gas engines and gas turbines - have in many cases been sold and resettled abroad. Home jobs have been lost. The Borsodi Energy Ltd. has begun. The Commission announced on 30 March 2006 that it would suspend the operation of the Sludge Alkonya thermal power plant and the Borsodi thermal power plant. A total of 50 people were released from E.ON's power plant in Debrecen and Nyíregyháza. Another consequence was the increase in import dependency, up to 6 percent increase in gas imports, the recovery of outdated, wasteful, hot water boiler technologies for domestic energy production, plus 10 percent increase in domestic CO2 emissions. In order to prevent teleheaters from becoming inoperable, nearly HUF 70 billion should be spent annually to maintain the system's operation. At the same time, this market tension is increasing as fuel costs increase and the price reductions of 10-10 percent. The New Széchenyi Plan, as you call it, is a token of economic growth, as well as the Government has proposed measures for the energy sector since spring 2010, in order to achieve the most effective development of other support schemes using domestic resources, such as the previous panel programme. After the suspension of the New Széchenyi Plan's energy applications of nearly one year, it finally appeared, so this happened, but compared to the earlier ideas based on ambitious regroupings of resources, new concepts, which had been put forward in the energy sector, it was possible to find a successor to the tender schemes developed only by previous governments. The fundamental question of how the HUF 140 billion available for these purposes in the New Széchenyi Plan will be sufficient for the implementation of the energy action plan, which requires some HUF 750-950 billion of resources, has not yet been answered by the government. The government does not seem to have a concept to achieve the stated goals. The government planned to create a green bank to finance energy efficiency investments in buildings using very poor energy efficiency, typically panel dwellings, at least hundreds of thousands of panel housing owners expect this from previous Fidesz promises, but no meaningful step has been taken so far. Over the course of four years, HUF 500 million has been renovated from EU funds, 80,000 jobs, 10 years of return, increased energy efficiency - thus summing up Fidesz's renovation programme, which is nowhere to be found with regard to the results. In recent times, however, we have heard about something quite different, a certain green database and an online platform. The real added value of this is uncertain, but it is likely to provide a good opportunity for a few billion-dollar IT development, which will result in a new expensive system with taxpayers' money, which can provide virtual solutions to real problems. Nevertheless, the green bank providing funding for renewable energy efficiency projects remains a promise or a pious wish, and the system has not yet been set up. In 2011, the panel programme virtually stopped, and the necessary improvements could not be made on the basis of the previously launched and awarded proposals. On a case-by-case basis, proposals for the energy efficiency modernisation of family or condominiums are available once or twice a year for one or two days and with low funding resources - HUF 1-2 billion - with significant self-reliance conditions will not make any difference in the modernisation of the domestic housing stock. The resources available for energy efficiency purposes in the EU budget cycle 2014-2020 - about HUF 308 billion - may also prove to be insufficient to improve the efficiency of energy use. In the last four years, it was not necessary to spend more than HUF 1000 billion on purchasing energy companies. I am thinking about the purchase of MOL shares worth HUF 500 billion, the purchase of E.ON gas reservoirs worth HUF 260 billion, the purchase of Main Gas worth HUF 90 billion and other companies worth HUF 140 billion. It wasn't supposed to be spent on these, it was supposed to be for the insulation and renovation of the domestic building stock. If we had calculated, this HUF 1000 billion would have been spent on this budget, then the reduction in the rent that my fellow Member Németh mentioned here would not have been temporary, but permanent. The provisions of the bill are magnified, undeveloped, it refers to the level of regulation to be drawn up at a later stage. For example, indicative energy efficiency targets should also be set in law. The Hungarian Socialist Party cannot support the adoption of the bill, despite the legally harmonised obligation to support it. The proposed regulation is undeveloped and inaccurate. In order to increase energy efficiency, real government commitment would be needed, not only to take pretend measures and not just to speak nicely, but to do real things. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-14-93	Thank you very much. Mr János Latorcai, Vice-President of the Parliament, is the next speaker who speaks his thoughts as the lead speaker of the KDNP. Here you go. [[15.30]]
u2015-04-14-94	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, For all of us, if something is known, it is a natural thing that natural resources, mineral resources, including energy resources on Earth, are properly unevenly distributed and distributed, their possession and the struggle for their possession are actually one of the accompanying phenomena of the history of all mankind. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. From the second half of the 20th century onwards, while dividing the areas of hope, more than once military occupation and preservation, the establishment of conditions for rapid transport has become decisive, which now allows the extraction and use of energy sources to reach an unimaginable distance from each other. Increasing the efficiency of the acquisition and use of energy sources has led to a shocking degree of technical competition and development since the industrial revolution, but despite technical progress, we have to face every day the fact that these treasures, these opportunities, are becoming less and less present. New sources and opportunities can, of course, be heard, but their effective feasibility is often doubtful or not feasible to all countries due to geographical and natural conditions. Of course, the economic and political competition for energy sources has not ended today, and even the use of energy weapons has occurred several times in the last few years. In view of all of this, each country, each responsible government, should also be able to monitor on a daily basis how the energy security of an area, the inhabitants of a country, can be maintained. In the case of Hungary, this issue is particularly highlighted by our membership of the European Union, as well as the long-term gas supply contract with the Soviet Union, which was adjusted this year, which will be of particular importance for emissions precisely in terms of its use. As our country is not abundant in energy sources that can be used efficiently and in compliance with today's strict environmental standards, it is particularly important that we use our existing resources effectively, diversify our imports, reduce our consumption, reduce our emissions, reduce the costs of energy consumption in general. This is the fundamental purpose of the bill we are discussing. As Parliamentary Secretary of State said in his expo, Hungary will indirectly, at Community level, contribute to reducing primary energy consumption and energy imports and improving security of energy supply by adopting a package of legislation for the transposition of the Energy Efficiency Directive 2012/27. The transition to a more energy efficient economy will help reduce the costs of end consumers, speed up the uptake of innovative technology solutions, and will certainly improve the competitiveness of industry. The aim of the Directive is to ensure that the EU's energy efficiency targets of 20% by 2020 are met, as we have heard here in the speeches, each Member State must establish a national indicative energy efficiency target, the sum of which will have to ensure the achievement of the European Union's single 20 per cent targets. The measures contained in the bill ensure that the national target is met, which, I cannot say, is 2 percent less, i.e. 18 percent, and this is very important. At the points where the provisions of the Directive allowed for alternative transposition options for industrial and residential end-users, as well as for energy transformation, transmission, distribution and industry operators, as we have heard in the Expoze, the most favourable solutions have been adopted. Using the option of a directive, the bill ensures that large companies are exempted from the audit obligation imposed on them if they have an appropriate ISO 50001 rating and have an accredited certification system of energy management. These are all aspects which aim at the effective implementation of the directive, so that we can rightly hope that the 20 per cent emission threshold set by the European Union and the 18 per cent government will be achieved. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-04-14-95	Thank you very much. Congressman Lajos Kepli is the leading speaker, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard very good thoughts from both the rapporteur and the pro-government speakers on the subject of energy reduction and energy efficiency. Our only problem with all this is that this bill is not decided by the government's own will, but by pressure from the European Union. This time a positive directive is being transposed, no doubt because of the prospect of an EU sanction or a sanction, which, as my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh mentioned, has been imposed by a fine of EUR 15,000 per day, with a fine suspended on the government or brought to justice. In any case, which is a fact, even though the adoption of the EU directive is almost literally included in this bill, these are essentially positive objectives which can be supported by the Jobbik Hungary Movement. In order to reduce the annual primary energy consumption by 20% by 2020 and, as Mr Latorcai, Mr Vice-President, we are indeed in the final moments to adopt a directive and related strategies, which will bring them into force and will be implemented, in order to reduce the annual primary energy consumption by 18 per cent on behalf of the KDNP. Because, in itself, even if we have such a law, and perhaps there will be, hopefully also government decrees that will help to implement it, it is not guaranteed in itself that this goal will be achieved. The National Energy Efficiency Action Plan will need to develop a strategy for the Member States, including how national private and public housing and commercial buildings will be renovated and investment encouraged, and this strategy will need to be reviewed every three years. It will be the responsibility of the governments at all times to carry out this task; the Minister for National Development, at least in this government, falls under the responsibility of the Minister for National Development. The most effective means of achieving these objectives depend largely on how we can encourage investment and the population, end-users, to invest in building energy, which makes their primary energy use a 1.5 percent new savings per year in the base years average. The 2010-12s are the base year, which is important because, in a few years after the crisis, energy consumption was lower than average, at least in any case than before the crisis, and we still need to achieve this saving compared to this base, which is basically not bad in terms of energy efficiency and energy savings, but a question of how we will be able to achieve this. The potential is included in the Hungarian building stock for growth and energy efficiency, as we are dealing with an extremely poor building stock, especially in terms of public buildings, but also in terms of private residential and non-residential buildings, with extremely poor energy efficiency. [[15.40]] First, this assessment must be carried out, and this, as required by the draft law, should be a database, at least as far as public and public buildings are concerned. The preparation of this database is obviously also an extremely big task, and this survey should have been carried out earlier, but at least we will see what the starting base is, how we will be able to renovate 3 percent per year, at least 3 percent per year of government-owned and state-owned buildings. Here is a small difference between the EU directive and the transposition legislation, as the directive speaks of 3 per cent of the useful floor area, and the draft law refers to 3 per cent of the total surface area, obviously the total surface area is always larger than the useful floor area, and these national minimum requirements are defined on the basis of this. This is also the case for buildings with more than 500 square metres of useful floor space, and the directive states that they should be reduced to 250 square metres from 9 July 2015. Until 9 July 2015, there are about two or three months, in good case three months, but a little less, so I don't really see the point of a single text transplant. Practically, then, since July 2015 will be here tomorrow, the 250 sq m floor area will have to be taken into account in the planning of annual renovations, since, once again, this 500 sq m in the directive, which is the case before 9 July 2015, will not be valid by the time the legislation becomes legally binding and enters into force. Then what was still problematic in the legislation is that it leaves it to a government decree, but it should also be laid down at a legal level to define central government buildings subject to the obligation to renovate. I think this would be much more effective regulated by law. I would like to highlight a few more points from the proposal. Energy efficiency objectives: yes, primary energy consumption savings and final energy consumption should be set as indicative energy efficiency targets by 2020. We have not yet seen any efforts to do this, nor are we satisfied with the national energy efficiency action plan, the national building energy strategy and other actions. Energy efficiency alone would also be an extremely suitable tool to reduce Hungary's energy dependence, to reduce the vulnerability to imports, as has already been said in other speeches before me, and one of the most effective means of combating environmental protection and climate change, it is clear that unused energy is the most environmentally friendly energy. Therefore, much more radical and significant steps should be taken in this direction than is currently being taken by the present government. Again, it's a matter of resources. The European Union is also ensuring, but I think that the Hungarian budget, the government, should also provide much more resources for this, because, as is well known, this also has an economic recovery effect, it will significantly boost investment in the construction sector. A construction exhibition will be held just now, where companies dealing with building energy, energy efficiency, will also host, and it has appeared in the press these days, or perhaps today, the statement in which they look forward to the new regulation with some anticipation. It is clear that these businesses hope to boost their turnover by introducing stricter regulations on building energy, but they also have some skepticism about the fact that although they are waiting for traffic to recover, they do not dare to plan with an increase in the number of people or with larger investments. It is because they have obviously seen a crow on a stake, as they say, waiting for what will be realized from these plans and whether there will be enough resources to spend or invest in building energy investments, because, in vain, this is indeed the secret of long-term reduction in the cost of saving primary energy use. We have been saying this for a long time, too, that it is not necessarily the way in which the government has done it, but it is precisely the cost reduction and the reduction in the cost of energy savings that will surely remain in consumers' pockets. It is clear that service providers should also be encouraged to help users, consumers, end-users to achieve this 1.5 percent reduction in energy consumption per year. To do so, they need to offer different financial and economic structures mainly to individuals, because the most problematic is to achieve these targets in residential buildings, in family homes and in other privately owned buildings. To do this, it is clear that different support schemes must be developed for the population. Until these background measures are seen or implemented or we see what the guarantees are, the financial instruments that force members of the present society, in a rather bled-out state, to invest in building energy - and in a much stricter way than ever - where so far 8 centimeters of insulation have been required, there are 14 to 16 centimeters, the socket concrete must also be seen in its entirety with at least 14 centimeters thick insulation according to the new EU regulations, which are extremely positive in terms of overall impact and will return to the future, but require a significant investment in the renovation of the building or construction of new buildings. The financing conditions should therefore be provided in an appropriate manner. And in addition, in conjunction with this, I need to ensure that, on the one hand, building engineering modernisation is implemented, not that the means of building engineering and renewable energy production that could provide it, let me not list it with the environmental product fee plus other 27 per cent VAT, which we are dealing with, but precisely with a process in the opposite direction, i.e. the abolition of a product fee, at least to 5 per cent of the product fee bill, with the exception of these products and the reduction of 27 per cent VAT where appropriate, i.e. the minimum rate, and other financial and tax policy instruments. So, in any case, beyond supporting the transposition of this EU directive, because in the long term, this could serve Hungary's energy independence through appropriate government measures, a sustainability and climate policy proposal that is important and useful from an environmental point of view, we will advance confidence in the government, although, on the basis of the last five years, this is not so justified, but it should not be an obstacle to the transfer of a possible energy efficiency package, if it has just come to the government that it will be a zealous champion of energy efficiency, rather than a Jobbik Hungary Movement to prevent this. So we will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-14-97	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind, lead speaker of the LMP. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, If it's a XXI. One of the first things he needs to do is raise wages and continue to invest in education, health and energy efficiency. In comparison, I was quite pleased to finally see the presentation by Dr. Miklós Seszták, National Development Minister [[János Halász intervenes.]] T/4285. Bill No.3 on energy efficiency. Hello, Mr Fisherman, please press a button if you would like to speak to him. But you have to see that this is a fig leaf, a fig leaf of Fidesz. [[Németh Szilárd István: That's something!]] [[15.50]] It must be seen that this legislation does not actually meet the requirements for energy efficiency to move forward in this country. For months now, the LMP has repeatedly and continuously demanded of the Hungarian government to finally behave like a decent EU government, consider the regulations that state that Hungary must be able to catch up with the community of countries where the fashion is not to heat the streets with Russian gas, but to help Hungarian families to insulate their houses, to live in panels or to live in homes. Here I refer a little back to the speakers who spoke before me, because the panel apartments were mentioned here, and it is true that citizens who live there must be constantly helped, but almost three-quarters of Hungarian residential homes are a family house, which was built not just yesterday, but much earlier, and these family houses are typically in rural Hungary, and those who live here families, Hungarian people, regularly use gas to get out of the street, because the houses are poorly insulated, the windows are old. These families should be supported so that they do not get cold or freeze in their own homes. Compared to this, in 2010, when Fidesz came to government in the previous cycle, it knew very well where it was ahead. He said that he was going to start insulation, that he was going to create jobs, and he calculated that, and he wrote it down in his government program. But since then, we've seen that what you can do is stop, and what you give little money will run out in two minutes if the system doesn't collapse. It can be seen that there is a huge demand in Hungarian households and Hungarian families to move forward in this regard, but you, my honourable pro-government fellow Members and honourable secretary of state, your ministry will not help Hungarian people to do so. There's this T/4285. Act No.3 on energy efficiency. When the first news of the infringement procedure, which Hungary received because you refused to harmonise Hungarian legislation with the EU's ambitions, entered the next stage, you knew immediately that you were going to do something, because the penalty of HUF 4.5 million per day may be a little too much, perhaps you too. And that's how it really happened, and they quickly put together something like this, which I called the fig leaf law, because that's exactly the problem with this law, not what's in it, but what's left out. What's in there is also a problem, but let's see it through. So what I see is that you want to quickly get past the mandatory requirements, you want to check the EU's expectations, and you want to blitz the substantive tasks, when you finally understand that there is a fundamental need for a change of perspective, and from this point of view there are about those joyful moments here in the Hungarian Parliament, when an LMP representative stands up and starts to talk about the fact that the 21st edition of the European Parliament is the only one of the European Parliament. It will basically be about a fight that requires energy that makes the country strong. Compared to this, you have the atom, now you will have the shale gas, this will be the next law, and when you have the opportunity to modernize, develop our country and help families in accordance with EU obligations, you will place such a fabrication on the table, which clearly shows that you do not want to help the Hungarian families at all to isolate their houses. They must see that the EU's ambition in this regard is precisely for the benefit of families, and to whom it puts a burden, the state itself, the budget, on the one hand, is the intention to understand the approach and the energy suppliers. Compared to that, it seems to me that somehow you don't like that attitude. I have long called you the government of energy wasting, because since you have been here in this country - now you have been on the government for the fifth year in a row - you are talking about nothing more than how much energy consumption is growing in Hungary, and this hunger for energy has to be satisfied, even though the Századvég has shown that the economic researcher in Hungary could cut our energy consumption by half if we finally started to isolate it. You've never denied that, but you may not have read it, but I'm telling you now that you're finally waking up from your Sleeping Beauty dream and realize that it's 2015. There is no need for fossils left behind, there is no need for a lot of things that were fashionable in the last century, but there are plenty of opportunities to live with, and to be clever in stewardship, and finally not to cry out devils all the time when they are not there. This is a very effective directive for the European Union, good for Hungarian families, and it offers cooperation and even demands cooperation with energy suppliers, the companies that you are constantly fighting, but who is the winner of the fight, we will actually see it in the future. At the moment, the match is going to be the main losers of this battle that you started. What is included in this directive is, of course, the energy renovation of 3 percent of public institutions. That's important and good, that's part of it, but let's keep going. There's a construction called "Esco funding" that's a foreign word. In the year 2012-13, I also submitted to you a proposal for a parliamentary resolution, in which I called your attention to finally realizing where the opportunity is. Make a cooperation agreement with the service providers, and help the Hungarian families by providing the service, go to the Hungarian family, see what reconstruction, what improvements are needed in the house to make the energy consumption more modern, the service provider will do this, for a while the Hungarian household will pay the same amount of rent as before, but after paying the cost of the renovation in rent, it will be able to pay a long and long-term low rent. This is a model that works in many European countries, and whatever you say, I looked into it, it works very well, for example, the French example. But let's keep going. It is also included in this EU Directive that energy suppliers have to assume an efficiency obligation under which service providers have to achieve a new savings of 1.5 per cent of the energy they sell each year for final consumers. Where? Where? So, to a large extent, the Hungarian population. This system is also in place in Britain, and it is basically a matter of providing financial support for retail energy efficiency investments. Do not go too far, look at the materials available in Hungary. You obviously have calculations, but I would like to draw your attention to the calculations of the Hungarian Energy Efficiency Institute. This institute, experts have calculated that the energy modernisation of 100,000 apartments each year could be resolved with the cooperation of the service providers. By the way, this would be something that was not too far from your original line, but I have already told you several times that I clearly see that the Fidesz government is the only source of money, as you are treating the energy sector, which is the kind of companies you are providing money to, as MET and its partners are doing in this country to the detriment of the Hungarian people. Well, of course they have no intention of using these researches and using them for the benefit of the Hungarian people! And if I add, the Institute has also calculated that with this only tool, i.e. cooperation with the service providers, the energy generation of a single Paks block could be triggered by 2020, i.e. in five years, we have already found out where the problem is. You want atoms in this country, you want shale gas now, and when there is a useful and good European directive, you will, and you will practically want to lick it, you will check it out with things like that, just to get away with a fine of 4.5 million public money a day, because you are one year late with this whole project. I think that the obligation of energy suppliers to be efficient is not included in this bill... - more precisely it is in it, but it is so grounded and distorted that only the government is mentioned. That's an interesting thing. I don't know, you want to open a national energy store here and do it through it, or explain to us then, Mr. Secretary of State, why this is so. Why don't you touch this device? Why are they seeking conflict where cooperation would be more fruitful for Hungarian people and Hungarian families? I understand that you think in slogans and need propaganda, but it is not in the interests of the Hungarian people. The Hungarian people want peace, predictability and, above all, livelihood in this country. I talk to you a lot about the need for a wage increase, but it would also be advisable to start using this completely modern, reasonable and logical tool. Plus, I have to keep going, because things happened here last month that also suggest that you are definitely committed to sponsoring energy waste in Hungary. Practically all measures that would help reduce consumption were removed from the national energy strategy last month. Obviously because the government wants a nearby economic lunar yard nuclear power plant, wants Russian gas, wants shale gas, wants a lot of things that Hungarians do not need, and such as smart measurement or the development of smart networks, it is not at all present in your spiritual front space, even though we are here on XXI. In the century, this is the future, and this could already be the present in Hungary. [[16.00]] It is about that, and it is important to see that a family can decide when to start the washing machine. When it's valley season and the electricity price is lower, it would use energy better, not when it's the most expensive. This is the potential of smart networks, smart measurement. A country could save on this, and Hungarian families could save on it. Now, compared to this, you're in this liquefying little law, which is long enough, but only because you're trying to write the audit down long enough, but you're not fully successful, there's a concrete measure to introduce new taxes on energy consumption, and I don't understand exactly what you're trying to achieve. Is there another payoff coming up? Mr Secretary of State, please describe what you would like to achieve with this. So, overall, I see that the law offers completely useless or particularly harmful ways of achieving the right goals. And the result is devastating. I think I've seen a lot of fidesz legislative failures, and I know that you had to act quickly here, because you were a year late, and now your delay would have been in the pocket of the Hungarian people, and it would have been a lot of public money for HUF 4.5 million a day, but you should have put a little more serious stunt on the table. I think that if there is something worth investing in government resources, tax forints, it is to see how we can develop this country in such a way that we have a strong, modern country, and the energy sector must play a huge role in this. I don't want to convince you for a long time, because the exact same faces are sitting here in general, I know all your sentences, I know exactly what you're looking at. However, I think it is very important that people who may be watching our work now understand that this is a tool that the Hungarian government hides directly and intentionally from Hungarian tax-paying citizens, energy efficiency, because it can create an image in this country, the fundamental cornerstone of which is to invest here, in nuclear energy, in shale gas and in a lot of dangerous things that could be saved if we finally started to isolate this country. Dear Secretary of State, [[Jenő Manninger: Seal it?!]] I am very sorry that it is in your interest that Hungarian citizens consume more and more energy. I think that this is your failure, as is the corruption that is your failure, which can be seen in action wherever you operate. However, as a Green Party and as a responsible Member, it is my duty to tell you that the way you think about the energy sector is unacceptable in itself, and I very much hope that in the near future we will be able to build a country capable of being able to implement the 21st century. One of the biggest challenges of the 20th century can succeed, and this will be a series of energy-related problems. Thank you. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2015-04-14-99	Welcome, fellow Members. Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Ms Anita Heringes, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-100	Thank you very much. As many people have said before, it is very clear that this proposal is undeveloped and inaccurate. Indeed, in the government - the feeling that man now has - not only in the government but also in the ministries, there is a lack of people who can spell that out precisely for time. The fact that we have managed to be late once again to present a European Union directive and we have tried to present our ideas in a rather vague way, the other Member States have been able to give what they intend to do in order to comply with the directive. And we, like the bad student, tried to explain the inexplicable. And when the shoes are really tight, and we really feel like there's no other solution, we have to submit it, because otherwise we're really gonna get a fine, and then we're gonna take action. It's completely nonsense. He's really like the last student who's lazy, slobby, and he's always slendrian, at the last minute, he picks up a piece of stuff, and he's handing it in. Today we can see that. If energy efficiency were really important to you, you wouldn't have spent a quarter of a stadium of money on the part of the state since 2010 to modernise the energy efficiency of family homes. Maybe they would have taken it more seriously that money is really the biggest savings people don't have to pay. The MSZP government took this seriously back then, and at least we started the panel program seriously, and then you said a lot of bad things about it, but somehow the same application scheme was kept in the energy applications of the New Széchenyi plan, because maybe you realized it wasn't so bad. The energy efficiency programme of the Hungarian small man and Hungarian family homes might still be further ahead if the old panel program were dusted down and continued what we started. Between 2008 and 2010, in the most difficult years of the economic crisis, 292,723 housing units were renovated by left-wing governments, with an average of almost 100,000 such real estates per year. Compared to this, this quarter of the stadium money you've spent on this is really ridiculous, no matter how you look at it. And then let's see what's really important to you, or what's really not important, what's not done, and what's not done, and what's promised. You promised when we started this session to submit it by January 2015. By comparison, it was submitted on 7 April. They did not succeed in the transposition of the directive in time, and that is why we now have infringement proceedings against us, and that is why we should pay if you have not submitted it now. As I have said, the interesting thing is that the other Member States have somehow managed to outline at least the basic directions, and we have failed to do so, haven't we? The energy applications of the New Széchenyi Plan were suspended for a year, and then, as I said, when it finally started a little bit, the old left-wing governments began to re-use their tender schemes, right, their funding needs would be at least 750 billion forints, compared to 140 billion forints. Well, a lot of this isn't gonna happen any way you look at it. You promised for a very long time that there would be a green bank for investments in buildings with poor energy efficiency, so that was just a promise, and in the end it didn't turn out to be anything, but we were getting used to the Fidesz government's promise that it wouldn't be anything serious. Or at least people won't even notice anything's happened. Nor did they take a worthwhile step with regard to the green bank, but no such idea has been outlined since then, which would have been achieved in substance. You have shut down the panel program almost completely in 2011, and people would have waited for at least the applications that have been awarded or at least launched to be implemented. But you didn't manage to do that either. Actually, we understand that the shoes were tight, and we understand that you had to submit this proposal. Maybe we should do it on time, 'cause you know, if you give fast, you give twice, and people in the country know it. Now you can pay the high bills, you can't see an energy efficiency programme, you can't pay your checks slowly, even though you might be able to if you continued the left-wing governments' program on this issue. We expect a little more professionalism, a little more responsibility from you, if you have the majority. Let's hope it doesn't take too long. Thank you.
u2015-04-14-101	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a two-minute speech, we will continue with the speeches made by its representatives in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Mr Béla Turi-Kovács, Fidesz Group. Congressman, we have a 15-minute window.
u2015-04-14-102	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear House, The strange situation is that the government has taken a step in the direction of this law, which has been strongly demanded and demanded by both the left and the rest of the opposition. With regard to the reduction in overhead costs, the observation has been, and I might say perhaps, that the accusation that the reduction in overhead costs does not result in an increase in energy efficiency, therefore increases energy consumption in a wrong way, and is thus unable to produce results that go beyond the momentary results. This is a complete mistake and a misrepresentation of domestic reality. For my part, I consider this reduction to be something the social measure of which was inevitable and necessary. This could not be replaced, and it could not be replaced by an immediate programme that meant an efficient energy saving, but which is unable to provide assistance during a transitional and even longer transition period, to provide direct assistance to those who otherwise had a strong need for it. [[16.10]] Here, too, I have to make an observation which I cannot ignore as a small farmer, and I also took the same position, and it has not changed today that it would not have hurt to take into account, or should not have, differences of a social nature. I am convinced that it is true that it is possible for some households to see waste strongly, precisely because of the cheaper and reduced price, while elsewhere this price reduction can at least sustain everyday life, at least to help families to stay on their feet. Why do I say that an immediate intervention and the grouping of forces and energies directly to what is otherwise inevitable, i.e. to save energy more effectively, could not lead to success, my dear House - and I think we all know that - because Hungary's current housing stock is exactly as well known from surveys. In Hungary, this housing stock was built to a large extent from the 1980s, and in a large part of the countryside there are still houses built of B30 bricks, whose inhabitants are unable to carry out effective insulation there, even less able to make, say, a boiler exchange, the return of which would take place in long and long years. It follows that the only way to move forward here is to take the next step gradually and at all times, taking into account the current situation. In the given situation, I believe that the government is now taking a step in the direction that means that energy consumption is being reduced. I would like to draw attention to something, which is why I asked for the floor. The government has plans which, I think, may soon be fully known, which represent a continuation of the panel programme, which is capable of providing assistance in this area on a large scale and to a significant extent, and it is certainly necessary to implement the same programme for family homes. What makes me say this, what I see - and especially in those circles where I do - is that it is very difficult for these applications to reach those places where help is most needed. In particular, it is much easier to reach applications in those circles where otherwise the need may be much smaller, where, by the way, financial opportunities are much more present. Therefore, a very effective - and I would ask the government to do so - information solution must be found in order to ensure that the government is well-known in good time, with sufficient weight and with the widest possible scope for assistance and assistance in this area. For my part, I believe that the law is a first option, the support of which opens the way for the following. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-14-103	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement will be made by Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group, within a 15-minute timeframe.
u2015-04-14-104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Improving energy efficiency, effective steps in this direction, I think it is also very timely in Hungary. I can say that this has been a priority issue in the European Union for at least ten years, and that if we consider that the European Union is not a fast-acting organisation, and has only succeeded in adopting the Energy Efficiency Directive on 25 October 2012, which this bill now seeks to transpose into domestic legislation, we can understand that others who are at a higher level of development than Hungary in the field of energy, also in the field of building energy efficiency and energy efficiency in general, have recognised well before us that energy efficiency needs to be dealt with. This is closely linked to the problem of sustainable development. Professor Latorcai, Mrs Bernadett Szél, has also been concerned that the targeting of energy efficiency and sustainable development is at all in a very close interaction. So we cannot talk about climate protection and sustainable development if, in addition to increased use of renewable energy, we do not take serious steps to ensure energy efficiency. It is also of great importance that this law has come before Parliament today - I note that it is late because it should have been here at least a year ago - because the Orbán government has not been about pushing energy efficiency in the last five years if I want to be gentle. It was about many other things, such as the elimination of the KÁT system, which was a kind of energy saving solution; according to the figures at the time, no gas volume of HUF 50 billion had to be burned because those cogeneration units used the calorific value of the gas more efficiently, produced electricity at the same time and provided district heating energy. This was abolished by the majority of Fidesz by a single decision on 16 April 2011. They didn't have any argument that a 1000 megawatt capacity, some HUF 1000 billion invested, would be impossible with a pen stroke, only that it was built during the last ten years, mainly during the MSZP governments. It was more than a mistake, it was a sin, both in terms of energy efficiency and energy saving. Although the mandatory take-over system is ripe for the amendments, the abolition was an extremely harsh, brutal and, I add, a foolish move. If you are thinking about a slightly smarter solution now, and you are trying to shape energy regulation towards sustainability, through this, to achieve energy efficiency, you should, however, be more elaborate, not so superficially adopted. The European Union, of course, sets a directive, lays down requirements, although these commitments mean something quite serious, but in this proposal, in this regulation, there are no guarantees that this can actually happen. Your promises are very untrustworthy. At the end of the KÁT, the broad professional outrage promised that METAR, the support system for renewable energies, would be introduced; well, everyone has been waiting to have METAR in Hungary since then, because somehow your government work could not produce this. I would also like to add that such a proposal alone is very little. A complex programme would be needed in which both energy efficiency and renewable energies will receive substantial government regulation and support. The lack of regulation - if I may use this ugly term - this area, I would mention the mining of earth's heat as an example. The first step was taken in December 2009, separated at a depth of 2500 metres by the fact that we are talking about heat mining; it has not continued since this government helped to exploit the domestic geothermal assets by creating a legislative environment. However, Hungary has very serious opportunities in the field of earth heat mining, and it would be good that when it comes to energy efficiency and serious commitments, they would look at this as well. If these commitments, which are included in the proposal, are to be refurbished annually in the amount of buildings corresponding to 3 percent of the building floor area used by the central government, or in public procurement products, services and buildings with a high energy efficiency performance should be the priority, if you could really carry them through in practice, it would mean a number of new jobs in Hungary. [[16.20]] I mentioned the mining of earth heat for a reason, which is not actually built at a large industrial level anywhere in the world, but Hungary has the best capabilities in this respect. A new industry could be built for this, an energy field, a machine manufacturing area that would be marketable, and in Hungary it would mean a high-quality job and a good livelihood for many people. On the other hand, you do not prefer job support, but also introduce a product charge for products that should benefit from tax relief. They may all have tiny little money, but their message is very bad that they also charge product prices for renewable energy products. They should not be taxed separately, but should be taxed in the opposite direction. Returning to why we cannot support this proposal beyond the central objective. We agree that there is also a legislative proposal for the transposition of European directives in Hungary, but not in this capacity and with such guarantees. Thus, the principle of achieving a 1.5 percent new end-use energy savings per year between 1 January 2014 and 31 December 2020 is almost a pious desire here, although 2010-2012 is a very hard base year, which was a deep-fly in the Hungarian economy. There was a decline in the Hungarian economy not only in 2009, but also in 2011. Therefore, these base years are very low, and an annual average of 1.5 per cent of end-user energy savings should be achieved. To do this, I think he should be more involved, not only in his head, in legislation, but also professionally and financially. Therefore, EU funds should be more concentrated than the EUR 140 billion previously planned in the cooperation agreement with the European Union. End-use energy savings could be implemented through various policy measures, financial incentives and voluntary agreements. The implementing authority designated by the government for the end-use shall ensure that it has the appropriate instrument system. None of this can be seen in this proposal. So there's an authority that's gonna have to do this. The deadline is set, and the authorities act like the two melon people that he couldn't do, because they didn't give him the tools. It is very right that this proposal should go up to the level of a legal obligation to carry out a cost-benefit analysis before investing in improving the efficiency of specific energy production facilities. However, this is, in essence, a self-fulfilling requirement, because in Hungary, who might want to invest in energy, would want to create an energy-generating facility, it will very much look at the effectiveness of that equipment, otherwise in life it will not be reimbursed in this depressed price environment. Hungary is now not characterised by the construction of energy-producing equipment, but by the opposite. For example, E.ON pauses E.ON's highly modern, combined cycle gas turbine power plant because it is not worth operating it. So this is also a strange forging of Hungarian energy policy. It is very right that the regulation provides for the provision of information to consumers on energy efficiency and energy saving methods and on the financial and legal framework for energy efficiency. This would be really good if these financial frameworks were accompanied not only by frameworks but also by actual proposals. It has also been said by my fellow Member, Anita Heringes, that one or two billion HUF will be opened in this area of energy efficiency by announcing that the window will be open at midnight, and then by four o'clock in the morning it will be full of 1,200 applicants, because everyone is ready to jump on the Internet. So this is not going to lead to the result that the law is undertaking as an obligation under EU law, so it is necessary to assign a system of instruments. The MSZP is of the opinion that the panel programme under the MSZP governments should be further developed. There was this three-time triple financing unit that 30 percent of central funding, which could go from EU funds or CO2 quota revenue, one-third of municipal funding and one-third of own resources. The lesson is that the third part is too high for its own strength. Thus, the panel programme will be successful and massed if up to 10 percent of the inhabitants have to add their own strength, the rest must be provided from EU funds or from the revenue of the CO2 quota trading in the framework of climate protection or from government development sources. The municipalities are no longer in a position to participate significantly in this. It can be a substantial part of energy efficiency if we help users improve control. This is simple enough for district heating, it only showed one connection to a control valve, it is not too big in cost, it is 80 per flat on average, up to 100 thousand forints per apartment. An additional technical standard is the so-called smart measurement, which will help reduce electricity peaks and thus make electricity use more cost-effective. The application of smart grids at network level can bring very serious results, but the technique and money to invest is also much higher. The fact that the law states that large companies have an audit obligation every four years to demonstrate the energy performance of their activities is entirely appropriate. Therefore, without the market players receiving certain instructions or pressures, it is not certain that it will move on its own, so this part is appropriate. I wish you to consider where the Union is going, where advanced energy is going, where energy efficiency is well ahead of us, and to turn your back on the self-conceived treatment of this issue, which has been in the area of energy, energy efficiency for the past four years, and to present a more decisive, tougher proposal with guarantees. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-04-14-105	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Statement by Mr Sallai R. Benedek, LMP Group. I give you the floor.
u2015-04-14-106	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Committee on Sustainable Development intends to discuss this draft legislation as an accession committee. As part of this, I had the opportunity to look at it in detail, and obviously our party's position was represented by our lead speaker. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to be informed on some issues, if that is possible. Mr Béla Turi-Kovács has already mentioned a number of social aspects which are ignored in many cases when we are talking about them, although it is very, very important for sustainability and social justice to take these aspects into account. In most cases, it is socially unfair, as is the case with the reduction of the rent, because those who consume a lot, who have many properties, provide a lot of help, while those who are poor and, let's say, only have a small property, provide very little help because of the percentage system. [[16.30]] In the same way, this legislation calls for a little help to those who have a way and an opportunity to improve the energy use of their own environment through energy efficiency improvements, while those who do not have this option cannot be helped. This is very, very important, because if the government is considering the implementation of this legislation with a serious intention to implement it, it must, in principle, rethink a great many things. I would like to say to Mr Secretary of State the general international experience that one of the key roles in achieving energy efficiency lies in general social awareness and awareness-raising, how to develop a wider culture of energy use in society, and how to encourage it, whether through legislation or through support policy or tax policy, to implement programmes of this kind with a fundamentally broad perspective. This is very important because, in the legislation, only Annex XI is applicable. A few sections of Chapter III deal very briefly with the dissemination of knowledge, and it is a very short wording, and the intention of the legislator to achieve the objective of introducing the legislation is not clear at all. It would be good for the legislation to provide guarantees for this awareness-raising, awareness-raising and knowledge transfer obligation and to provide a basis for this to be implemented much more widely. I also have a fundamental conceptual problem with this. I've said it many times in Parliament, and I'm in a lot of pain that there are so many lawyers in the government, because they always think that legislation can solve a social problem, and after they do one of these, they'll check that we've made a law. Yet, there would be much more government opportunities to do so. But I understand the European Union's obligation to do so. However, I would like this to indeed serve the objective set by the legislator. In the same way, when I look at the whole legislation and look at words about how, for example, the implementation of energy efficiency appears mainly at sub-regional level. Where there are family houses and separate systems, it is very important that their self-sustaining capacity be created in itself. The legislation does not create any background for the implementation of active and passive houses. These terms do not appear in it, nor does it mean that during the new constructions, during the development of the new residential building, they should strive for the energy use system of the new publicly owned establishment, which meets these conditions. Today, ISO 7730 certification systems and DIN 1946 systems provide the possibility that if a building is operated with no more than 15 kilowatts per square metre per year, it will receive these ratings. If such a development is new, it can make a major contribution to the objectives of the legislator. In order to achieve these, it is necessary to provide for a very simple compensatory option in the legislation, since if an investor, a government organisation, or even a private investor wants to make a new development, and there is an additional burden on their budget to build such technologies, whether they convert the new building into an active house or a passive house, all that has to be done is to compensate for other subsidies. Let us help to avoid any additional burden of energy-efficient development. At the moment neither active nor passive construction technology is mentioned in any section of the legislation, which I, for my part, miss at first glance. I have little reservations about the fact that, although he put the bureaucracy on the flag of the government and said that he wanted to reduce the public burden and increase the transparency of the public administration, he created a new office, the Hungarian Office for Energy and Public Works. I wonder if there is no need to have an independent environmental agency in the country, if there is no need for a number of authorities to be independent, why we are doing this in this very small sector. But I can accept this, but it is certain that the establishment of such an office does not contribute to the government's bureaucracy reduction goals. There are two strategic plans in this legislation. One is aimed at implementing the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan and the other is aimed at implementing Annex IV. The national building energy strategy will be implemented in Chapter 1. These are only interesting because the short sections to which the legislation refers are more and more widely present in most of them in the adaptation strategy under your governance, which relates to climate policy. As my fellow Members have already said, energy efficiency issues have a very large and wide link to climate policy. At the moment, we see that they have created a climate adaptation strategy with their own experts, but they have no intention of implementing it, and there is no necessary source. At the same time, this legislation sets out a new action plan and strategy of this kind, which we obviously deal with with with reservations, because we do not know if this will happen, because, in addition to their previous strategies, there is no idea of implementation. Overall, I feel that what this legislation wants to reflect in its spirit is certainly forward-looking, but, as I said, legislation does not solve the problem, and this leaves a number of issues open. The name of the legislation is specifically about energy efficiency, but when we look at the definitions that it applies, we see that it is cheating on the reader, because it is mostly about building engineering and development, but it is not about the technological system of household appliances and appliances related to specific energy use. Energy efficiency is not generally dealt with, but most of all it offers building and building solutions. This is important because energy use in the communal sector, but also in the small business sector, is a very large part of the equipment that is in everyday use. It would be very good if the legislation applied an intention to implement, if there were stages in it, which would create the possibility, in particular, to replace, modernise and transform building engineering, household appliances and appliances, to obtain as much assistance as possible in order to achieve this in a wide range of society. If, in general, the bill is about energy efficiency, which follows from its title, it would obviously be necessary to add sections that provide a clear guide to this. And if I look in the search engine at what other means it creates besides energy efficiency for the development of the renewable energy sector, then you can rightly say that it is not an objective of efficiency to achieve energy transition. But if we look at how energy intensive it is to store and transport energy - to get the power from Paks anywhere or do anything like that - we can see that it will also contribute to efficiency if we can use renewable energy sources either in the government sector or in the business sector or in the private sector during active periods. This would create an important opportunity. Looking through the legislation, I did not find the proper intention and background to ensure that the legislative stages would provide this assurance. Obviously, our committee will also discuss this in a detailed debate. But if there is one before this House, then I would very much like most of the additions, most of the amendments, to be adopted. I do not think that many voters would be touched by this subject, so there is no need to make this a big political issue. It would be good to have a professional background to the fact that the Secretary of State accepts and integrates constructive proposals. Because in order to ask for the support of the opposition for this adoption, it would be necessary to accept all the ambitions for completeness in the amendments that we will make in the next period. I'd like to ask Mr. Secretary of State, if you have the opportunity, to respond to a few things. For example, what he intends to do, whether in terms of the active house, the passive house, social justice, bureaucracy reduction, the background to the implementation of the action plan and the strategy or the dissemination of knowledge, because they do not come out from the justification of the legislation. Answering them now may help us to develop a more positive approach to the draft. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-04-14-107	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Kiss, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. Here you go. [[16.40]]
u2015-04-14-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Actually, I'd like to put on this thread a little bit, which is about how important mind-forming is. I am inclined to agree with those who say that there are many feelings of lack in this proposal when we are talking about either education for an energy-conscious life or the formation of consciousness in this regard. After all, when we talk about the need to inform the public and stakeholders about the appropriate financial and legal framework on a website, we feel that this is not the ultra of the non plus information activity and the kind of awareness-forming that could be expected in relation to energy efficiency. Allow me to share a personal story. When I taught, I was a classroom teacher, and we wanted to create a thematic program that was particularly important for children in terms of reducing energy consumption and raising energy awareness, then we could turn to a utility company instead of government help or curriculum help, which has such a program, which does this kind of activity. The problem is, of course, not that a public utility company does such an activity, but the bigger problem is that the state footage of this story is less. So I would like to see a serious presentation of what is ahead of us, and it really is an important objective, for example, to inform consumers and to educate them about energy-conscious life, that it is indeed energy that is not consumed that is the most environmentally friendly and cheap energy. But if we are to set this goal, then it would be important to have a leg for this law, which is about how we shape the souls and positions of people and, most of all, future generations, how we raise children to become energy-conscious adults. I think there is something to be done here and I would like to see such government proposals. In fact, I would like to see such government proposals in this proposal. I feel less of the mud on the part of the service companies, so to speak, that they have to do this kind of activity, and that solves a lot of things, because, in my experience, a lot of companies do this activity, in the way they are expected to do. Nevertheless, I think it is right to do so, and it is very right that this is also included in this bill, because it is important that these companies carry out such activities. However, I suggest that you consider, whether in education or in public education, what kind of programs can be carried out that involve children, students in public education, in the education and in the formation of consciousness, either in the development of teaching materials or in the promotion of competitions or in the promotion of sponsored leisure activities, because this could mean a great deal in moving the consciousness of the future generation in a healthier direction. I am not talking about the fact that, of course, it would also help if the textbooks themselves were prepared in an environmentally friendly way, which is not the case, but let us not be perfectionists. I think one of the weaknesses of this proposal is that it does not mention this. Allow me to take part in the procedure set out in Annex III. As a representative of the district, I should also mention another aspect, as I have many panel buildings in my constituency, some of which have been renovated by Panel Plus and Öko Plus. Most of these were before 2010, but there were also such renovations between 2010 and 2014. In my immediate residential environment, the long panel building called the village house is a sample investment ever since. So you can say that there are successful energy-conscious, energy-saving investments. However, it can be said that there are many other buildings that have been left out. If we were to see the government plans that my fellow Member Béla Turi-Kovács talked about, that there are such ones - I myself have not seen them - which would guarantee these sequels, for example, it would mean a great deal to me, because I know how much money people are paying for wasted energy. However, I also suggest that what my fellow Member Józsa has said is that the current tender scheme is priceless for many people. After all, we think that an entire Eco Plus investment, which represents the packing of a whole building, means a complete energy upgrade, requires hundreds of thousands of HUF investment from the population, the resident. This is difficult for the residents of the panels, Békásmegyeren, Kápászmegyer, Újpesten, or even for the population living in other Budapest or rural panels. However, if this investment is dismantled where appropriate and the heating regulation is first launched as an independent tender, it is possible to help a large number of residents at a much lower cost. I am only suggesting this for consideration, and I know that this is not the case for this proposal, but if we really saw what the law currently does not show that there is any guarantee that you are serious about this, then this would help to make this acceptable. I think, overall, that the directions that the EU directives impose on you are obviously eligible, but, together with the other Members of the MSZP, I see that the foot of this law, which is about how you and your instrumental system of doing this, which has been assigned to it in the law, does not seem to achieve the objective that you have formulated. That is why I would like to see amendments made on the opposition side, but also on the government side, to make this proposal better, and to create this kind of guarantee element in the law. Thank you for listening. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-14-109	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[For signal:]] Yeah. I give the floor to Secretary Zsolt Szabó. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-04-14-110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Thank you very much to my fellow Members for the very valuable thoughts that we are trying to follow. If I may, I would like to begin with the idea that it is the least burdensome for both the population and the business community, and that it offers the greatest opportunity to invest in energy efficiency in the best possible quality and efficiency. That was the intention in the first place. Let me answer a few questions. It's a question of the date of administration. The national building energy strategy, which is linked to this area, is either the 20 per cent basic directive formulated by the European Union or, if you look at the materials of the Lima conference for implantation, all of which have just allowed the government to accept it. From this, we know, we already know, there will be no punishment. I think that the important thing is that the transposition of the directive is able to meet Hungarian interests as much as possible, and, as I said, the less burden on both the population and the entrepreneurs, if any. It's a matter of METAR. We're preparing the law, we're in a social consultation, we're bringing it in in the fall, we'd like to put it into effect from 1 January. We're hoping to make it. The panel program is always interesting, but I'd like to close the past. We've heard so many times about how successful the panel was during the previous government, so not during the Orbán government, but during the previous government. I would like to say two factors, and I would ask my fellow Members to keep this in mind. One is that half of the time paid for the panel program is for the Orbán government, and exactly 57 percent of the money has just been paid. The other one. When we took over the panel register, it included a commitment of HUF 14 billion that had no financial cover. We paid for this, too. I'll report it with respect. So this means that we should definitely close the past and move this programme into the future. What does that mean, translated? There's a condom program scheduled right now, and we've extended it to buildings built from brick. Plus 120 billion are among the new KEHOP applications, which apply to residential, family and panel renovations in energy. If we add to this that we are already creating the other part of the source, then this means that ESFO funding can enter into force. In fact, these renovations can be covered by energy savings. I think this vision is a very positive, forward-looking picture. By the way, let me just say that the financial needs of the previous period's energy applications have not been established by us, but we have already prepared the next period. It's a matter of smart measurement. Smart measuring devices are in the process. Here, too, I just want to say not only electricity, gas, water, district heat, which is very important, much wider spectrum. We also consider the form of smart measurement to be good. [[16.50]] Thinking has come up several times. Each of the European Union's proposals has a resource for energy thinking, and Articles 12, 17 and 18 deal with this topic separately, but also refer to Articles 4, 6 and 7, where there is also an opportunity to develop an approach. We also consider it very important to help the future generation grow up to know what it means to be energy efficient. The office is functioning, it has already worked under the leadership of Mr. Lajos Dorkota, so this is not a new office, we are just strengthening the activity to make the system more transparent. In the national building energy strategy, we will certainly find elements related to this area, to this law, which my fellow Member mentioned. I think there is a way that anyone who wants a passive housing can do it, and anyone who wants to save energy in an active house can do it. I would like to say once again, with which I began my closing thoughts, that this law contains a wide range of possibilities. We did not want to regulate it, we did not want to add additional expenditure to the population or entrepreneurs, but we wanted to comply with the EU directives by encouraging savings, and we wanted to create a good and functioning, operational law. Thank you very much once again for the proposals from my fellow Members, and I would like to ask you to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-14-111	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to amend certain energy laws until closure. István Szilárd Németh and representatives of Mengyi Roland have made a separate motion T/4289. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István Németh Szilárd, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-14-112	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The question may arise as to why we have on our table as a motion for individual representatives a bill amending certain laws on energy matters, which amends eight laws on energy issues or related legislation on a number of points. Allow me to say that before I present my position on the bill, three major areas are covered by this bill. One is aimed at promoting so-called non-traditional or non-conventional gas extraction. In Hungary, there is a significant area where this bill, if the amendment enters into force, and the amended law can otherwise be of great help to obtain this energy asset or this natural gas asset. The other large group, which called for the amendments, are proposals for consumer protection, consumer-friendly and maintenance of the reduction of costs. The third, which aroused the press' interest most, is aimed at withdrawing the establishment of a previously defined system. I can already say that this system is expensive or not costly, but it would not have been able to be operated in a cost-effective way, or in some opinions it would not have been possible to operate in an environmentally friendly way. What I would like to say is that the bill I have tabled does not intend to solve all of Hungary's problems, either in the field of energy or in mining, in any other area. It's all about what's written here. I would just like to say this because it is not worth going elsewhere and making other suggestions on what else should be done, not in hospitals or there, there, so this is the only area where my bill applies. The third is that I have consulted the bill with the competent ministries, the Prime Minister's Office, the Ministry of National Development, the Ministry of National Economy, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, which has been operating for many decades - so this office is not a novelty, as we have heard from one of our fellow Members - and the players in the market that are otherwise affected. So we've had a full consultation on this bill. As I said, I propose to amend eight of these energy laws. The first is the Act XLVIII of 1993 on Mining. The reason for this is, as I said, that Hungary has a significant share of hydrocarbon assets that can only be produced by non-traditional mining technology. The current regulatory environment is rather aimed at researching and extracting conventional hydrocarbon events, and in particular the rate of mining fee withdrawal does not encourage the use of non-traditional technology methods. The installation and operation costs related to non-traditional extraction technology are much higher than for conventional technologies, and even remain high throughout the entire investment period, contrary to traditional technology, where most of the production costs occur at the beginning of the investment. Given that non-traditional hydrocarbon assets would significantly mitigate the country's dependence on imported energy, it is appropriate to fix a mining fee rate that takes into account the high investment needs and costs of extraction. Therefore, the proposal provides for or proposes the application of a 2-percent mining fee rate instead of the current 12 per cent, as is the case for the extraction of coal gas under the ground using complex technology. The proposal also removes the dismantling and abandonment of so-called pressure equipment from the obligation to authorise mining supervision, given that this legal institution and the maintenance of this legal institution are no longer justified on the basis of technical and technical security aspects. Here are the consumer protection measures that I am also proposing, in particular as regards the provisions on the provision of data to the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. The typically regular reporting obligations currently imposed by the Hungarian Energy and Public Utility Regulatory Office in the form of data decisions are more appropriate and more effective regulation - already given the possibility to legislate - while maintaining that, if necessary, the Office may continue to issue individual data decisions. In addition, the obligation to carry out a consumer satisfaction survey by the Office will become uniform in individual sectoral regulations. The amendment of the Gas Security Stockpiling Act is intended to ensure that, in the event of the economic inability of the natural gas dealer, the natural gas security stock can be used for the consumer and for the supply of gas, pending the appointment by the Office of the so-called ultimate refuge trader. Under the rules in force, there may be a reverse situation between the suspension of the former trader and the designation of the new trader for a period of up to 7 days in terms of supply and its settlement. The amendment makes it clear that, for this period, natural gas is provided by the Hungarian Coal Hydrogen Stocking Association and accounted for at specified prices with the designated natural gas dealer. Thus, of course, consumers will account for or be associated with the same natural gas trader for the transitional period. In the context of several minor amendments to the Electricity Act, the rules on the payment of the damage caused and, in the case of users not eligible for universal service, the switch-off rules will also be clarified. The rules for the establishment of customer services are also clarified. For example, the situation will be resolved if only part of the walk listed in the Government Decree on district offices belongs to the operating area of the universal service provider. [[17.00]] The reason for supplementing the rules on energy permanent arbitration is that, on the basis of the experience gained since the establishment of the arbitration, there has been a need for the parties to the energy markets to make the court's proceedings more transparent. It is therefore appropriate to extend the powers both to new areas within the industry and to allow for international activity. This will strengthen the objectives of national energy policy to play the role of the hub of regional energy markets through the geographical conditions of the domestic energy market and the interconnections of the expanding infrastructure, while also affecting the competitiveness of the domestic energy market. However, as in the district heating Act, the Electricity Act is supplemented by the rules on the provision of data to the MEKH and the consumer satisfaction surveys to be carried out by the Office. With regard to the Gas Supply Act, the most important thing is the introduction of a new offer system for the provision of resources to universal service providers. As part of the regulatory price regulation, a so-called offer system was introduced in 2010 in order to ensure the availability of natural gas sources for universal service providers to maintain low end-consumer prices. The resources provided as a result of the offer scheme have played an important role in achieving the cuts in overhead costs over the past period. Since these source contracts expire on 30 June of this year, in order to allow universal service providers to have access to natural gas sources with which the results of the reductions to date can be maintained after 1 July, it is necessary once again to provide for a source recommendation for the sources of imports provided by the long-term contract, which is the Hungarian Gas Dealer Zrt. for the period from 1 July 2015 to 30 September 2018, of course for the universal service provider of domestic households and Hungarian families. I've only drawn attention to the most important things here. Our third such great unity - we talked about how an expensive and non-green system could start on 1 July, which is now withdrawn by this law. I am talking about the law on the security stockpiling of imported petroleum and petroleum products and amending the law on specific rules for the marketing of excise goods. I recommend the deletion of the fuel monitoring and marking system that was previously intended to be introduced. The introduction of the system could not be protected by professional considerations. In the view of the tax authority, the abuse of the fuel market would not have resulted in a real solution, and the origin, route and quantity of excise goods transported under suspension can still be monitored up-to-date by the NAV on the basis of the uniform electronic excise tracking system already in place. The cost of operating the system would have been significantly higher than the tax loss it intended to manage. On the basis of the application conducted by the Hungarian Coal Hydrocarbon Stocking Association, the marking could be made with halogen content, which in effect raises an act in conflict with Btk., the facts of the abuse of a substance that depletes the ozone layer. In view of all this, in this bill, I propose that this system not be introduced. In summary, there is another important part of this law: the law on the promotion of the use of renewable energy for transport and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from energy used in transport is of a technical nature, and I stress that its technical amendment includes the replacement or addition of legislative harmonisation clauses in view of the already amended EU legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I ask you to support this bill and the amendment of the eight laws which have been amended by the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-14-113	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr András Aradski, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-04-14-114	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, When adopting the proposals by the government, when it is decided by a government or by the competent ministry, it is used to examine in an energy bill how it serves the implementation of the energy strategy adopted in 2011, including the realization of the objective of independence; how it serves security of supply, and how it serves the opportunity to obtain energy more favourable to Hungarian citizens from 2013, i.e. to retain the values of the reduction of the rent; and how it really serves consumer protection in the field of energy; and in what way it helps the regulator to operate more effectively. If we look at the bill you submitted, it can be said that it meets all of these aspects, all of its regulatory objectives. If we consider that the amendment of the Mining Act to the possibility of establishing a more favourable mining fee for non-conventional production for hydrocarbon extraction is provided by the bill, then I must say that the objective of encouraging our own domestic production of natural gas in the field of hydrocarbons, including natural gas, is clearly also to ensure the independence of our energy supply and energy security. It can be seen that the currently registered extractable hydrocarbon assets exceed 1500 billion cubic metres, but the current 2,2-2,4 billion cubic metres of production are significant, but it is apparent that we have reserves. And as you can see, many countries in the European Union are seeking independence. Germany is also taking similar legislative steps as Hungary, reducing the mining fee for non-conventional natural gas, establishing the rules of procedure of the Mining Act on such extraction, which was already implemented by the Hungarian Parliament in December by the amendment of the Mining Act at that time. So these are important steps for the future as well. I have to say that to do this, the Hungarian Government has continuously launched concession procedures in the field of hydrocarbon mining since 2011 and these concession procedures have not stopped. We now have our latest call in the official paper of the European Union, and we are very confident that the introduction of this 2-percent rule makes investment in hydrocarbon production attractive in Hungary, although it is important to know that there is a very complicated, very difficult, feasible methodology for non-conventional mining, but we believe that mining companies with appropriate expertise can do this and contribute to increasing Hungarian hydrocarbon production. Its proposal contains a very important security of supply approach, where it regulates that companies which are unable to deliver their portfolio in the field of universal service are able, with the assistance of the regulatory authority, to provide additional supplies to the public and consumers, so that the legal conditions of this proposal become clear, clear, traceable and accountable. [[17.10]] I believe that this is to a large extent in the interests of the security of supply for the population and that it solves the unclear situations currently under the current rules that could have occurred in such cases. I also think it is important to say that, in order to reduce the costs, the source insurance for natural gas will also be resolved by the bill, which is otherwise subject to the provisions of the third energy package in force, and that this source insurance will be regulated accordingly in your bill. So it can be said that even if I point out that we give the Hungarian regulatory authority, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Authority, the right to establish a regulation with regard to the provision of data and do not impose individual decisions on service providers, this will also indirectly be better for consumers, because instead of requiring the provision of data in individual decisions, it can make a regulation and use the capacity to control the provision of data in the interests of consumers. Overall, you have explained in very detail the content of the proposal that has been tabled, but on the basis of these aspects - security of supply, the implementation of an energy strategy, the protection of consumers, and the effective functioning of the authorities - I can say that the proposed proposal can and will be supported by the government. Thank you very much. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2015-04-14-115	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr János Latorcai, Vice-President of the House, lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As we have heard in the expo and in the head of the Secretary of State, T/4289 on the amendment of certain energy laws. Legislative bill No.3 amends eight energy laws and related regulations. The amendment requires the continuation of existing practice, i.e. the offer of free natural gas sources to universal service providers of state-owned natural gas traders with import contracts, which, as we have heard in the expozee, is an important step, especially since this will ensure universal service providers' access to sources of natural gas at official prices until 30 September 2018. The proposal amends the rules on the provision of data to the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. Regular reporting obligations in the form of current decisions are more appropriate and more effective to regulate by regulation, because this amendment could result in a reduction in bureaucracy and, on the other hand, a more concentrated capacity utilisation of the energy office, i.e. a greater focus on the control of the data received by the Office. For my part, I also consider it a justified step on the part of the faction to extend the powers of the energy permanent arbitration to new areas within the industry, as well as to enable international activity. Based on the experience gained since the founding of the arbitration process, energy market players require that the arbitration process be wider, which will allow it to fulfil the role of the hub of regional energy markets through the geographical conditions and expanding infrastructure links of the domestic energy market. I would like to touch on three laws in a little bit more detail, just because they, I think, concern all those who deal with energy - and here I look at my fellow Member István Józsa - more. These are laws on gas supply, mining and electricity laws. The 2008 XL on gas supply. With regard to the law, the most important element is the introduction of a new system of offers to ensure the provision of resources to universal service providers, as part of the regulatory price regulation, which allows universal service providers to have access to natural gas sources with which the results of the reductions to date can be maintained after 1 July 2015, i.e. after the second half of 2015. From a consumer point of view, the rule on accounting for the new so-called final refuge trader in the event of the economic inability of natural gas dealers is a forward-looking rule, as is also welcomed by the statutory requirement for the energy agency to carry out a satisfaction survey in each sector. XLVIII of 1993 on mining The reason for the amendment of law, as we have heard in both expozees, is that Hungary has a significant share of hydrocarbon assets that cannot be produced by conventional mining technology. However, the rate of the current mining fee withdrawal does not encourage the use of non-traditional technology methods. The installation and operation costs related to non-traditional extraction technology are much, but much larger than for conventional technologies, and even remain essentially large throughout the entire duration of the investment, unlike conventional technology. Ladies and gentlemen, The research results of the past period, the new extraction technologies established in the world, and in particular such US and German production data, indicate that the production of non-traditional hydrocarbons can significantly reduce the import dependency of each country, and it is therefore appropriate to set the mining fee at a new value at a new threshold that takes into account the increased investment needs and costs of extraction. And then allow me to draw the attention of Mrs Bernadett Wind here to a professional matter, who, in her previous speech, somehow used this shale gas in a pejorative sense. I would like to say that shale gas is used in a number of places in the world, but actually it is still a big problem today to extract it from depths below 1500 metres. In Hungary, this is the natural potential in the Mako trench or in the Békési trench between 3800 and 5500 metres. Extraction from here hasn't worked out in any of the world today. So if we ever want to have access to this treasure, this wealth, then there is a need to make sure that those technologies, the investment opportunities that will make this possible. In this respect, it is therefore appropriate to switch from a 12 per cent mining fee to a 2-percent mining fee rate for such technology. The other technology is the gasification of coal resources that are difficult to mine underground and the use of so-called hot power plants. I would also like to say that, to the best of my knowledge, there are three of these experimental power plants in the world at the moment, but according to the bad languages, one of them is the result of a change resulting from a spontaneous process, i.e. the possibilities of an inflamed, unused mine are being used in a research and experimental way. [[17.20]] What I would like to say - who knows this term and knows this form of engineering practice - is that even small samples in this area are not clear, and this type of operational practice, I believe, cannot really be expected without special investments. I would also like to mention the electricity law, because the application of the rules on the provision of data to the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office and the consumer satisfaction survey to be carried out by the Office will also be added here. Ladies and gentlemen, The above-mentioned amendments serve to make the operation of domestic energy suppliers and the related supervisory system more efficient, while keeping energy prices low, and my group therefore calls for support for the adoption of this bill. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks. Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2015-04-14-117	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, The speaker of the MSZP Group, Mr Bertalan Tóth, will be here to speak. You have the floor.
u2015-04-14-118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, My fellow Member! For me, this is a completely weird charade, as the rapporteur, Mr President, puts forward the bill, and then the Secretary of State confirms and praises and analyses the proposal himself, while this draft legislation appeared on kormany.hu as a government proposal for social consultation. So this was originally the government's proposal and not an individual representative's motion. So it's a weird thing, I don't see it yet, I don't understand the point of this, but maybe we'll get an answer. Not that this is of such great importance, but it is strange that when it has already been published in a government referral, how it has become an individual representative's motion. It has been mentioned here in the speeches that energy prices are kept low, and let me refer back to what I have heard in the previous debate, because I am deeply disappointed that we are in our position, but I think it is perhaps common here that real energy price reductions and their sustainability and long-term preservation can be ensured if energy efficiency investments are made. A year and a half ago, we heard the Minister Mrs.Lászlóné Németh, who said that the government intends to provide HUF 500 billion for energy efficiency building renovation, and then János Lázár, who became the minister responsible at the Prime Minister's Office, spoke of only HUF 350 billion at the hearing of the candidates for ministers, but in the previous debate we heard from the representatives of the government that there was a total of HUF 120 billion in this activity. Perhaps Mr. Secretary of State can provide us with a little clarity in this, too. But if that's the case, we've gone from 500 billion to 120 billion in a year and a half, which I think is unsatisfactory and appropriate. Turning to the bill, I would first like to highlight the eligible elements that it contains. First of all, let me point out, as my fellow Member has done in presenting his presentation, the abolition of the legislation on compulsory monitoring of fuels. It was a very controversial and long-lived story, but the fuel label would otherwise have been a specific, well-identifiable, no added value fidesz dog. You may not be offended if I said the name - right, Voldemort, whose name cannot be said, but I will say it - I recall that an economic company close to Lajos Simicska would have been able to do so alone. If I remember correctly, the company may have been selected before this legislation came into force. The Socialist Party has put forward a number of proposals in this regard, which has been regularly voted out by the Fidesz MEPs. The proposal now contains a remedy for this error - in quotes - although according to some press reports, this is one of the results of the Fidesz infighting that, after all, the company supervised by Mr Simicska does not have access to this rich profit. The fact that the European Union would not have liked to see such a provision coming into force has probably also contributed to this. The other eligible provision is the reduction of the mining fee for the production of unconventional hydrocarbon assets, which is obviously questioned by whether this measure alone is capable of convincing potential investors that because of the lack of predictability and predictability of domestic legislation and economic environment, it is even worth starting such capital-intensive investments. Well, that doesn't answer that, so the government still has to do a lot. The third, which is eligible, is to strengthen the powers of the Energy Office and strengthen consumer protection rules. These are the positive provisions in this bill. As a criticism, let me say that, although it is positive that the author intends to provide universal natural gas suppliers with a regulated price and quantity of natural gas as an extension of the current system, the method is not in our view compatible with EU rules. This is part of the context of the current Brussels energy infringement procedure, in view of the fact that it deprives service providers of the right to choose their contractual partners by establishing a supply chain based on contractual obligations and of the fact that a specific source of natural gas is to be sold by the producer to specific operators, domestic natural gas produced exclusively for universal service purposes. The latter provision may also infringe specific primary EU law, namely the right to free movement of goods. As a criticism, I would like to state that the bill does not contain the power-holder's provision on which we had a debate with Mr. State Secretary at a meeting of the Legislative Committee, and then here in Parliament, Mr. State Secretary admitted that this proposal was justified, even in the proposal for a regulation published on kormany.hu, which was agreed on, was still covered by this empowering provision that the Energy Office would be entitled to lay down detailed rules for the capture of natural gas capacity in the future. In this there is a debate between us, and I believe that the empowering provision of European Union law in the Hungarian legal order does not give us the opportunity, does not give us the power to do so, so it should be in the law, specifically in the law, that the energy office should be empowered to create such a regulation. This is not in this legislation; I do not know why this was already included in the bill for conciliation, but unfortunately this is no longer here. Criticism is that it cannot be justified to make it difficult for consumers that, on the basis of the bill, universal service providers could be exempted from the obligation to maintain customer service per district under certain conditions. In other words, if only part of the district falls within the scope of the operation of the universal service provider, if the National Utility Service Provider has already been established and the post office will be involved in the operation of customer services, this provision cannot be justified for consumers. And while we are talking about energy laws, I do miss the proposal that we have already put in place and put it before Parliament and asked to be included in the series of articles; this proposal, which would have provided for further reductions in gas accounts, district heating accounts and electricity bills, for an average consumption of 20 per cent in gas accounts, district heating and electricity bills of 10 per cent in price reductions, the reason for which was to deliver to consumers both on the international market, on the Western European market and on the price reduction of gas delivered from Russia. This is not here, and I would like to reiterate my regret that this has not been voted by the majority of the governors. [[17 .30]] This is still an opportunity, since the benefits of this cheap gas are still emerging to this day. I always say, and the Socialist faction is also of the opinion that this benefit should be with consumers, so the reduction in costs should not only be maintained, but also the reduction in energy prices, if the market would allow it to do so, should it be ensured. I would also like to note and point out - this is also linked to this cheap gas price - that it is still completely incomprehensible to me to this day why Magyar Gazdaságkeresztő Zrt. does not fulfil its reporting obligation. its second year towards the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. I would like to ask you this, because this company and the gas purchasing companies are now supervised by the State, and as I understand it, the Ministry of National Development, as a supervisory body, when it is finally doing something about it, should call on these companies as owners to provide data to the energy office, which could then include these data in the pricing process. It is unacceptable that an office punishes a public company for ten million forints, which refuses to provide data. This is not what the Fidesz government is known for tolerating such nasty things and such careless behavior. So if you step up so hard on a lot of cases, I can only encourage the government to act here. The Hungarian Socialist Party does not support the adoption of the bill, as I mentioned, despite certain eligible proposals and provisions in its current form. Therefore, the proposed regulation is contrary to EU rules on several points, as I have said, despite previous government promises, they do not remedy a recognised coherence problem and contain difficulties for consumers in accessing customer services. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds.]]
u2015-04-14-119	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kepli, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-120	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, as my fellow Member mentioned, the picture has been raised before me, as my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, sitting at home, grudges over what could be done to further reduce Hungary's energy dependency or to continue the struggle for reducing the costs, and then draws up a package of proposals consisting of amendments to eight laws, and obviously, as he is also the President of the Wrestling Federation, he does not find it difficult to wrestle with the competent ministries, so that this proposal can go through and be presented to Parliament. Congressman, please don't take this as personal, as a political humor category, I was just trying to loosen the mood here at the beginning of my speech. In fact, I would not drag this speech on long, because what is more shocking to me is the sudden or formed shale gas coalition that has developed here before our eyes in the previous minutes, because Congressman Tóth has made it clear to us or to the Parliament that he is in favour of [[István Szilárd Németh: They will vote against.]] the reduction of the mining fee for the production of non-traditional hydrocarbon reserves, if the whole proposal is to be voted 'no' for other parts itself, he considers this concept to be eligible. That Hungary has an unconventional hydrocarbon stock that could reduce the country's energy independence in theory, with many question marks, we sign it, and indeed we consider it to be something that is good if there is, but at the moment there are many technologies or processes that already exist, but at the moment it is not at the moment that it is possible to generate energy from it in economic conditions, especially taking into account environmental sustainability interests, and I think shale gas is exactly one of these issues. Those supplies are thousands of meters underground, buried in rock cracks, they're there, and they're not gonna disappear anywhere in 50 to 100 years. I do not think that there is such an emergency situation at the moment that we, by reducing the mining fee or by any other measures, should help to bring those stocks to the surface. I know that there are experiments in the Mako trench at the moment, they are not yet very successful, and they are not now, but they have tried to get there up to 6 thousand meters, or I don't know how far they can get results in this unconventional gas extraction, and I also know that this is not a new technology. So we also need to clarify that shale gas extraction with rock cracking technology has been known for decades, and it has been used in Hungary, but Hungary has such special geographical features as the Jobbik Hungary Movement believes, on the one hand, that it is a dense settlement structure, and on the other hand we are a country with a basically small area of 93 thousand square kilometres, so to speak, at the moment, at least since 1920, which means that whether we look at shale gas extraction, underground coal gasification or carbon dioxide storage in underground reservoirs, these are all considered dangerous technologies due to dense settlement structures and other environmental conditions, and because of an earthquake or other environmental event, they can cause dangerous effects on people. But the extraction of unconventional natural gas resources, the rock cracking technology, thanks to the chemicals that they are getting down there, is a potential environmental hazard in itself, and because it is an environmental hazard, and it is extremely expensive technology at the moment to obtain gas and energy from the Hungarian population at the right price, so we concluded that we do not support the extraction of shale gas and, unfortunately, also the entire bill, in which we might otherwise have eligible points for us. If this stays in it, we will not be able to support it. In fact, Hungary has work to do on energy independence, on the one hand, to reduce import dependency, but if we are talking about imports and we are talking about gas, it is primarily the question of diversification in which we are still not able to make progress, obviously, on the bi-directionalisation of cross-border capacities and on other aspects, which we are constantly considering in every parliamentary debate, what these problems are. I don't want to talk about them now, but it is obvious that there is also a need to move forward on this issue, as well as to increase domestic energy use and energy use from domestic sources. But there's a much cheaper way to do that. So if we're going to use our own resources, I don't understand it anymore, and we didn't support the closure of the Lion coal mine, where coal resources could be produced in a much more economical way. It is true that electricity should not have been used in the Lion power plant, with extremely low efficiency and expensive burning, but obviously in a much more modern lignite or coal-fired power plant. But speaking of XXI. Let's move on, let's look at the renewable energy sources. Many have attacked or attacked Jobbik, because we also classify hydropower as renewable energy sources, but then let's talk about the rest of it, about solar energy, let's talk about geothermal energy, the utilisation of which is very childish in Hungary, and let's use resources to spread them even more. The resources and the efforts we make here in the legislation to help the legal environment for the extraction of non-conventional natural gas resources or to make it more friendly for investors could be the same with regard to renewable energy production equipment. Obviously, it wouldn't cost the government anything, although it would obviously cause a loss of revenue, as the mining fee issue also causes a loss of revenue. In the same way, the short-term loss of revenue, with a short-term view, could be that, let us say, we would exclude renewable energy production equipment from the scope of the Product Charge Act or that, let us say, we would reduce its VAT content to 5 per cent; but in the long term, this would serve Hungary's energy independence, or this would serve Hungary's energy independence, and in addition, the energy efficiency investments included in the previous agenda. We should make a significant move in this, because this will also boost the economy, help to create a new industry, or not a new industry, because within the framework of the construction sector, the industry is working to seal, renovate and improve buildings. [[17.40]] In this, indeed, as I said in my previous keynote speaker's speech, we should make substantial progress. That EU directive may provide a framework for this, but it must be filled with content by the governments at the time. Therefore, the extraction of shale gas and the reduction of the mining fee cannot otherwise be justified for us. For underground coal gasification, the technology is also the bottlenecks at the moment. There were experiments, an Australian company or Japanese company in Borsod, and the Australian company did experiments in Baranya County, or was looking for areas where this could be done, and eventually they did not succeed. At the moment, this technology is expensive to economically solve underground coal gasification, and it also contains environmental hazards. So I think that if we really want to get ahead of time and technological progress and we want to support technologies that, on their own, are not yet economically capable of producing affordable electricity, then let us really support the energy sources that are also in the interests of the future generation. Before my fellow Member of the LMP asks the question, "Well, how does it work out with Jobbik's support for nuclear energy, in general, we always get that, yes, we do. Once again, in Hungary, in a few years or within a decade or two, there will be a significant lack of energy due to the closure of outdated and operational power plants, there will be no new ones, because the investment and legislative environment is not such as to create new power plants in Hungary at the moment. There will be a huge lack of energy here, which could amount to thousands of megawatts, so there will be plenty of ground for renewable energy sources and energy efficiency investments, as they can help reduce the overall demand for energy in Hungary. Although, at the moment, we are not moving towards a reduction in total energy consumption, but, thanks to the consumer society, we are growing more and more intricately thanks to more and more electronic devices. So let's look to the future. I did not mention the other elements of the legislative package because they are eligible and less eligible. Or maybe we'll come back to that in a regular speech later. But the whole point of my speech is that if the government wishes to leave the ideas on the mining fee for shale gas in this proposal, the Jobbik Hungary Movement is not eligible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-14-121	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Szél, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I regret to say that, according to my information, this is not the time for Parliament's mediation, which is also problematic because we were talking about energy efficiency first. Then, according to my information, the Hungarian tax-paying citizens could enjoy the film Charly, Monkey in the Family, instead of watching Hungarian representatives talk about the law that has a decisive influence on the fate of the century and argue. Now I have a bill on my desk and on all our tables, which has life-threatening points for Hungary as well as for Hungarian people, Hungarian soil, drinking water and everything. Instead, according to my information, taxpayers do not see this debate. It may be on other television channels, I don't know, but if there's anything that the Hungarian people need to see, it's what's going on here in this House. You should've seen the big coalition of shale gas coming together. Fidesz and MSZP support the reduction of the mining fee in the case of shale gas as one, but start at the beginning. Well, I find it interesting to see the charade that's going on here. I think that everyone has read the press reports about this long and rather detailed bill being drawn up by Nefmi, the Ministry, and yet I find it strange that they will not do so, and that they will be submitted to a Member, and also as a stand-alone motion in a salad law. But what does that mean? That means a lot. For example, they did not consult with the Ombudsman because they were not obliged to consult him in such cases, but there are also parliamentary advisory organisations that I am sure would have had something to do with the government. For example, the National Environment Council or the National Sustainable Development Council, NFFT. Technically, this method is a pretty deplorable business for Fidesz. It's good enough to silence people, but they won't be able to silence us. It's a scandal written here. There's obviously a reason why they did this. I'm convinced that you have one reason to be involved in this shale gas business, and you want to put your hands on it. Our fellow Member in Aradsk, Mr Secretary of State, has spoken about the energy strategy, energy security, reduction of overhead. There's one thing I want to talk about, and it's very much about, and that's security. 'Cause when you talk about shale gas, you talk about safety. The shale gas requires an extremely dangerous extraction method, or at least the method by which we obtain it is extremely dangerous. You are now under the leadership of our fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, as I understand it, to be warriors of shale gas extraction. They're up against a lot of trends again. You say that there will be economic benefits and reduced import dependency, and you say that you will therefore reduce the mining fee from 12 to 2 percent. Now, Mr. Secretary, I need you to answer me one question: if shale gas is such a good business, then why are you reducing that mining fee so radically, which is the only source that means that Hungary could benefit from all of this? Don't tell me you're trying to lure companies here, there's companies here, just like in other countries, and they're slamming the door in a row because they can't do anything about it. Twelve percent is not a high mining fee at European level. It's a perfectly normal key. Why are you guys doing this mess again? Why are you trying to use this method of recovery again? Why do they want to put their hands on a natural treasure that can only be obtained with extremely dangerous methods? And here's another question: what about the natural damage? I don't know why you don't talk about it. I think that if you were a responsible government, you should start by saying that in Albania, not so long ago, at the beginning of April, there was a huge accident, precisely in relation to shale gas extraction. There was an explosion, there was pollution, and a village had to be relocated. Why don't you start with that? But I could continue: there are experiences here in Hungary too. Here is a Canadian company that had to stop searching for shale gas - so they were in the research phase - because it was the territorially competent environmental authority that ordered them to stop and forbade the use of this hydraulic fracturing technology. And why is that? This was justified by the fact that the injected water contains 2% of toxic substances, allergens, mutagenics, carcinogens and environmental harmful substances. Do you really think that this is what the Hungarian soil is for, that these materials are injected there? And then what about the Hungarian water supply? Well, they're endangering our own drinking water. How can they be so shortsighted? ! The water supply is XXI. It will be one of our most precious values in the century. It is not necessary to pollute so that God knows whose wallet is stuffed with it, but to look after it. And what do they do to the west of us? In 2011, France was the first to ban shale gas extraction as it was. Thousands protested in France because they knew that using high pressure water, sand and 200 different chemicals pose a threat to groundwater. I have tried to find out exactly what chemicals are in this cocktail you want to access this gas with, and I would like to say this now so that everyone knows what bill you have put on the table and what the Hungarian government supports. I must add that there is no information available on about one third of the chemicals used, so to say business secrets are the exact composition of the chemical. Luckily, it's not all, so I can give you some chemicals. For example, polyacrylamide, which, if it degrades into its components, becomes a neurotoxin. But there's the carcinogenic benzene, the lead that causes brain damage, the ethylene glycol, which is the antifreeze ingredient, and it's toxic, methanol, which is very toxic, boric acid, which can cause kidney failure. [[17.50]] It contains radioactive isotopes, biocides, fungal and microbial toxins. Do you really think that the Hungarian water supply is meant to inject such materials so that we can get some gas, saying that there is such a need for energy here? Please, let's isolate the country. Save on how much energy we use, and do not inject neurotoxins and other substances that can be proven to leak and poison, destroy the Hungarian water supply. In the spring of 2011, a popular resistance began in Bulgaria when the US Chevron Corporation won a tender for 30 million euros for research rights in a vast northeast area. Then what did the Bulgarian Government do? A moratorium on shale gas research was introduced because they realized that this is not going to be a profit, it's going to be environmental damage. However, in December 2014, the governor of the State of New York banned the extraction of shale gas in the territory of the State and justified his decision precisely by the fact that health risks are too high. There's a lot of warning signs and a lot of problems. I think that you are extremely irresponsible if you put forward legislative proposals to unleash such a disaster on Hungary. I can really see that you guys have somehow stayed here from the past. So they want nuclear power, they want shale gas, they don't want insulation, they treat renewables like crap, they don't give us space, they tax solar cells, they tax wind turbines, so I get that you're not the people of this century, you're not the 21st. It's a government of the century. But I beg you, you have children, grandchildren, at least think they'll have something to drink in a few hundred years, because that's not how this thing works. We are not only responsible for the fact that we can now use gas or heat or light gas, but we are also responsible for leaving this country for future generations. I think that, when Szilárd Németh took the formula and changed it, the amount of the mining fee is written here in the part following the sentence of the value generated by the quantity of mineral raw material produced on the basis of an official licence, and he took it and changed the formula. It's a completely mysterious element in the bill when it comes to setting the mining fee. He simply took the price of imported hydrocarbons, certified by the invoice. So, it's one of those things we shouldn't go past. With all due respect to the professionals. I respect you, we work together here in Parliament, but do you really think that I believe that Szilárd Németh is going to be right next to the desk, and he's going to override this formula? ! Tell me, please, what's the reason for this? I can't think of anything else if we miss an item certified by an invoice, but that they're preparing for corruption here again, so that it's easier to hide from the Hungarian public what profits are made during import and perhaps mining. For example, it would be great if our fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, stood up and told us why this is necessary. Be kind, stand up and tell me that if Fidesz is not preparing for corruption here, then what is the professional reason for this formula to hit it like this. [[István Apáti turning to Szilárd Németh: What does the formula mean? Defiance.]] But back to who could profit from this whole salad law, because I have to add that Szilárd Németh did not just put a bill on the table, a salad law, in which everything is really in place, starting from the collapse of the Simicska business to the shale gas. [[Happy Stephen: Yeah, the Simicska...]] However, I would very much like to keep this story there, which is the most serious danger, and this shale gas in this proposal. [[Happy István: The formula is very important.]] You know, if I see a bill like this, the first question in me is, who's gonna benefit from it? [[Happy Stephen: And what is the second?]] I suspect that you have those circles, and I wouldn't be surprised if you were already in line for those companies who want the gas fortunes of the Mako trench. But there is now the Canadian Falcon Oil & Gas Ltd., or a company of the Russian Gazprom, which can also be a winner, or there are also companies who can log in and try this research, they can continue to do so. However, there is one fact, and this is the most important thing, that environmental damage may occur already during the research, and events may occur which puts Hungarian people in a very dangerous situation. As I mentioned here, earthquakes have occurred in the shale gas producing countries, explosions, pollution, a lot of events that you are not prepared for. So you opened Pandora's box with this, and I was here last November, even when you hit the shale gas and you could see that there would still be a continuation. Even then, the LMP strongly protested against this box being opened by you. But they did, and here's the next step. All I can do is ask you to think about how far you're going on this trip. Economic opportunities in this wealth are rather small, but social and environmental risks are huge. It was a number of European countries and regions that introduced a complete moratorium, banned cracks, and now you are once again facing European trends and putting the green authorities under even greater pressure. Look at the example of Poland, Romania, the Czech Republic, Ukraine, and those companies are pulling out. You want these companies here now? Is this really the point of this crazy idea that you're taking down the mining fee, that companies that have tried to drill somewhere else and didn't come together, come here and destroy our country, our land, our drinking water? Look, I'm giving you a much better idea, because, unlike you, I'm a XXI. I am a 100th-century politician with ideas on how to build a strong Hungary. Our party has set down in its programme the roads in which we can promote renewable energies, put them in position, improve energy efficiency, create 450 000 jobs, and give the country safe energy, which will also reduce our international exposure and dependence. I think that it is quite deplorable that there is now a party in Parliament that is able to see these connections and to see for more than a few years what is going on with this country. This party is LMP, which I'm very proud of. And the only thing I can hope for is that you understand at least a fraction of what I've just said, and you don't do the ugly thing with this country that you're throwing away all kinds of business interests, our land and our drinking water. Please turn back from this path. Thank you. [[István Apáti: That's right!]]
u2015-04-14-123	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group.
u2015-04-14-124	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, metaphorically speaking, I'd like to know what kind of spiritual and spiritual state it took to create this formula modification as an individual representative's motion. But that is not why I asked for the floor, but to see the process that shale gas extraction is currently not on the path of development and economic activity in the world, but on its way back. In several countries where the American company Chevron, which is leading in shale gas extraction or research, has moved out in recent years, where it has planned to do shale gas research, whether in Ukraine, Bulgaria or in any of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, I could mention Poland. Chevron was present in several countries, and the news could be heard or read in a row, that it had left and left because it did not see the exploitation of shale gas as economical. Where do we get, let us say, the optimism in Hungary when we make this legislative amendment, that if an American company with such high capital power does not consider the extraction of shale gas here in Central and Eastern Europe to be economical, then we think that we will reduce Hungary's dependence on energy? I feel completely unwarranted and unprofessional in this treasury optimism, and, as has already been said in the speaker's speech, it is also very dangerous. So I would ask my fellow Member, Szilárd Németh, to withdraw this motion as an individual representative and to think in a different formula. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-14-125	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group has applied. You have the floor.
u2015-04-14-126	Thank you, Mr. President. I am very pleased that the Congresswoman has returned, because before she is very close to us and overestimates the commitment of her own individual and party, LMP, to protect environmental values, I would like to ensure that we are at least as committed to the environment and that we will not, of course, vote in favour of this proposal. Just as we find it absurd that an individual Member, even if he is equipped with many professional experience, should bring such a deep presentation to the House, is simply irresponsible. [[18.00]] As an old expert and lawyer, I am very sorry for my fellow Member, Mr András Aradszki, State Secretary, for agreeing to such an unworthy situation. You're not supposed to do that, please. Either the Ministry takes responsibility, the government takes responsibility for a proposal of this magnitude, or you return your term of office, Mr. Secretary of State. There's this 12 percent, 2 percent. Indeed, there is no actuality of this issue, because we are talking about 12 percent of nothing at the moment, because there is no prospect of extracting such a thing, and at some point 2 percent of something is likely to mean more mining income than 12 percent of nothing, but it is not a question of individual consideration! Bringing something like this here really raises the question of who's responsible. And I would also like to say to the congresswoman that she was right to say that now there is virtually a ban on shale gas research in Hungary, because there are no conditions, so such activity cannot be pursued. In closing: there is no big coalition in this area. Thank you.
u2015-04-14-127	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, He applied for a two-minute speech... - pardon, in the next round I will be able to give the floor to Mr Apáti. However, we now have Members who have applied for a speech in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group.
u2015-04-14-128	Thank you very much, I didn't think I could continue my comment so quickly. I would like to take this proposal to the point that it is not actually talking about conventional technologies. It should be here, like, professional preparation. I believe that a responsible government, a responsible ministry, as usual, will present such a question on the basis of a serious and responsible professional apparatus. Rather, it would be necessary to specify what they consider and on what basis it can be produced by a non-traditional technological process, because there is likely to be a kind of clean coal technology worth supporting, because it is essentially a category of renewable energy, and indeed there is one that does not have the actuality at all, because, with the current low level and drop-down of hydrocarbon prices, complicated technologies cannot actually be considered. If the government wanted to support something with a tax reduction, it would not have been necessary to increase the excise duty on bioethanol, for example, but to find those bio-energy, alternative energy that they could possibly run with a tax reduction or production aid. I also believe that the message of this situation is wrong. Maybe they're trying to get the congressman to take the blame so that later responsibility doesn't fall back on the government. In any case, if I was not accused of a great coalition, I would agree with Lajos Kepli that it would be best to withdraw this proposal now, to give it back to professionals, to extract the incriminated parts, to discuss the missing or superficial parts with professionals, as they first put on the Ministry's website, to hold consultations and meaningful professional negotiations, and to bring it to Parliament as is appropriate for a responsible government. The term "responsible." You know, in point 48, 12, the responsible party comes from who is responsible for the government: the Hungarian Parliament, not the emperor, or someone who is up there. A single-person leader may have stated that this can be arranged, but I think that this is unworthy of Hungarian parliamentarianism. Not to mention that we have a valid legislative law, which would not only be appropriate for such complex legislative proposals of at least this weight, but should be followed, must be respected. When I was just talking about responsibility, the responsible legislative preparation, which should be the task of a professional apparatus, the Ministry, this also suggests that the present solution in this form is in fact irresponsible, so it cannot be followed. There are also parts of the proposal that are quite astounding. How does an individual representative feel about writing on a paper that he believes that the Hungarian Natural Gas Dealer Private Company is obliged to offer its free resources to universal service providers for the period from 1 June 2015 to 30 September 2018? This is a deep professional issue that should simply not be taken up by an individual representative! There must be serious calculations behind this, and the MEKH should have serious experience and proven data. Let's say you should force the data from the Hungarian Natural Gas Trading Company that you refused to release for two years. As you have it written down with the congressman, it means he's the one who's gonna take the fall so that the responsibility doesn't go to the Ministry. I burst into tears from what Mr. Secretary of State had said, namely that he used to examine it in such cases by the Ministry. Well, what are we looking at? That's how we should work it out. Mr Secretary of State has given his lesson very well, this is the agenda, but then you do not have to give it to a Member to take the blame to pass through Parliament without any consultation or inter-relationship, but this responsible work must be examined on the basis of the aspects that he has rightly said. Whether it serves the energy strategy, whether it serves security of supply, leads to price reductions, whether it leads to an improvement in consumer protection. The result is certainly a forward-looking element of this proposal, but for example, it could be imported in a separate energy consumer package and not colluded with environmentally critical things that are not clearly stated in this proposal, but somewhere it can be understood that if a mining fee is reduced to one-sixth, the government has some idea, even if it doesn't explain it properly. XXVI of 2006 on the security stockpiling of natural gas The amendment of the law is ominous, which aims to ensure that, in the event of the economic inability of the natural gas dealer, the security of natural gas can be used for the supply of consumers until the designation by the MEKH of the ultimate refugee trader. This, please, is a disaster scenario. This visualizes as if you would expect the supply of gas to the general public to fall into line and give such permissions or legal opportunities to resolve or resolve supply problems temporarily. I think, with a normal market operation, such a passage in a proposal is extremely ominous. The fact that the coloring of fuels must be waived is entirely appropriate, because when it was first brought in, we considered it a skandalum. Giving the MEKH the power of regulation in a normal state, in the case of a normal authority, it is likely to be another appropriate mandate. [[18.10]] But when we see that MET, a predominantly offshore natural gas trading company, used the HAG pipeline outside the competition on the basis of a ministerial decree, brought it in, and while the MVM partner had a result of HUF 1.5 billion, MET earned HUF 30 billion on the same transport; so when we see that a government apparatus uses the power of regulation to do this, then it is not certain that the legislator can be so calm that this Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office will receive the right of regulation without precise restriction. This may also be appropriate if it is properly defined what it is and its reporting obligation is clarified. If, let's say, it doesn't turn out to be a regulation, then it will not be encrypted, like the operation of MET now, that it doesn't want to publish the Hungarian Electricity Works, but it is transparent according to the rules of normal parliamentary democracy, and it fulfils its reporting obligation in front of the parliamentary committees. To sum up, there are expressly eligible parts in this, clearly the parts relating to consumer protection are correct. We would recommend that this be incorporated into an independent energy consumer law, that the whole be withdrawn, and the rest with much greater responsibility, with much greater care, by carrying out impact assessments, professional consultations and presented to Parliament by the Ministry, because this involves the possibility of almost legally error and irresponsibleness. I ask you very much to spare yourselves and us from this. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-04-14-129	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Aradszki, who obviously wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2015-04-14-130	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. You have discussed the issue of responsibility, Congressman Józsa. I remember, on the part of the government, in my speech, being responsible for saying that the bill submitted was supported by the government. It therefore requires responsibility, because it agrees with the content of its content, agrees with the intentions and agrees with the professionalism of the solutions. The Socialist Group will decide why it will support this bill. [[Dr. István Józsa: He won't.]] Because Congressman Józsa said that there are consumer parts that he can support, and that Congressman Bertalan Tóth was particularly pleased [[György Szilágyi: You just said to withdraw. The president's ringing the bell.]] to reduce the non-conventional gas and hydrocarbon mining allowance to 2 per cent of the proposal. These two different statements within a single faction are put together in the area of grants, overall, if shared, but supported by the Socialist faction for the proposed bill. [[János Pócs: Great!]] So this is how they led the country between 2002 and 2010, there was no way to know why they were doing what they were doing, there was no way to know why they were indebted to the country, nor how they would lead the country to an economic crisis that, slowly but stablely, Fidesz-KDNP governance would help the country to emerge; and it would not only appear that it was coming out. Pala gas research, 2 percent, national mortality, water, acidification of our land, XXI. Slogans promising centuries of government. [[István Apáti: XIX. century formulas.]] Just, please, with all due respect, how do you know that this is the result of a reduction in the mining fee for this unconventional hydrocarbon extraction? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett shows me a piece of paper, it's written here.]] Does it say that, please, beyond that, without any water rights, environmental permission, any polluting technology can be used freely in order to raise the hydrocarbon with a 2-percent mining fee? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: We know you.]] It's not in there, Congresswoman. And I agree with Mr Józsa on this point, who said that in order for this bill to result in the fact that, please, there will be no conventional method of hydrocarbon production here, there is a great deal to be done by the government. In particular, it must comply with the conditions of the guidelines published by the Commission of the European Union, as I recall, in the summer of 2014. As does the German Government, when it likewise supports the implementation of non-conventional hydrocarbon research. And I'm using unconventional hydrocarbon research on purpose, because everyone's talking about shale gas, and we don't even know what it is. [[Dr. István Józsa: There is no such thing in Hungary.]] And especially when I hear the words of Congressman Józsa in Hungary, and I agree with him, there is no such thing as shale gas research. [[Dr. István Józsa: There is no shale gas in Hungary.]] But that's hard to understand in the 21st century. A representative of the LMP, who is engaged in windwheel politicization in the century, who supports windmills, biogas, all kinds of things that will certainly make it possible to light the lights in the apartments, even if there is a day, and there was a day in Germany when there was no sun and the wind didn't blow at the same time. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: The sun doesn't shine deep.]] So I can say, Congresswoman, don't worry, we will discuss the conditions under which actual non-conventional mining practices can be conducted under environmental, water law and water conditions. I have to say, I'm sure you didn't pay any attention to the fact that this kind of beneficiary mining fee has been in the legislation for more than ten years in the field of petroleum research. Why aren't you attacking that? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I didn't say that.]] Why don't you attack that? You just don't know what's in the bill. You have a fixed idea to tell me about your LMP program, and it doesn't bother you at all what's written in the bill. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's not true. János Pócs: That's right.]] He's done this more than once, and he's done it more than once. We talk a lot, you've always said at the beginning of your comment that we're sitting here, we know each other, we know what our different reactions are, what we're going to say. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's not true. Answer the questions. The president's ringing the bell.]] Unfortunately, Congresswoman, I know what you're going to say and what you're going to say. And you always say the same thing, you always say the same thing that's written on your paper, which is a panel system, how much better LMP XXI is. 100th-century practice, politics. But what I see is that he cannot make use of any new and forward-looking proposal for energy security in Hungary, for Hungarian security of supply, for the reduction of Hungarian regulations. So once again, it is not a matter of allowing shale gas research, because it is a professional agreement that such research cannot be considered. Secondly, it is not about releasing all kinds of polluting technologies into the country with this good bill. Because we will comply with the environmental and water standards set out in the guidelines of the Commission of the European Union and it will be possible to carry out such a research activity only on that basis. It is also possible that the best, most environmental and sustainable technologies available are not suitable for use under Hungarian geological conditions. Then, please, we'll rethink this situation after that. But I can say for sure that the 2-percent mining fee alone does not mean the destruction of our land, water and all of our natural elements, but opens up an opportunity and gives encouragement to those who think about such research, who in the rest of the world can be listed as much as the woman who represents has listed the opposite data - and continue to do so for the benefit of the people who live there. That's all I wanted to say. So, overall, we have the courage, we have the responsibility to say on the part of the government, confirming once again that we can support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[18.20]]
u2015-04-14-131	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We will continue with the speeches in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Congressman János Volner, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With your permission, fellow Members, I would like to return to the technical details of the bill after some other detour. I think it is important to say, Mr Secretary of State, what we have already done in other energy laws, that the state, the government itself, should define the sectors in which it intends to intervene, and how it will do so, with which toolbox. I do not know how many times the Electricity Act or the Gas Act are before the Parliament, we are constantly amending these laws. As time progresses, of course, we may take back strategic gas reservoirs, for example, and therefore have to apply the laws, but these laws come here too often, and we constantly rewrite the rules on energy. In no small part, the result of this uncertainty in this sector with a long payback period is that the investment rate is reduced with a noble simplicity, as Hungary represents an uncertain economic environment, it depends heavily on the government's volition whether it is worth investing in Hungary or not. In this proposal, we can see that there is no strategic planning behind the proposal, because this is what the government is going to do, and I will go about it in detail here, and neither is the government's energy policy coherent at this level. First, it is necessary to determine what the purpose of such a bill, which is now before us, is. I see basically two objectives here: one is the provision of cheap energy for consumers, which is important for the general public as well as for the established production companies, and the other is the part concerning mining fees that applies to this, so that the government can obtain budget revenue, if possible, as much as possible. It is worth checking whether and to what extent this strategic planning is being implemented by the State. It is worth looking at the issue of the macro gas fields already mentioned by colleagues - from which obviously layer cracking technology can be brought up, if at all possible to bring up in the near future a large supply of natural gas, otherwise incredibly large, what was the strategic intention behind this. It could be seen that in the longer term, companies operating on a market basis were thinking ahead of the Hungarian State. First, North American companies, Americans, Canadians searched this area, and then, through a Serbian company, the Maco gas fields were transferred to Gazprom's property, in this way we lost this opportunity in practice, and now the government is trying to regulate an area over which the Hungarian state does not really have the right to exist or can not actually use this area for its own benefit. I also think it is very important to say that about six months ago there was another bill here, when the government was desperately defending the position to be free from the mining fee for oil released in improved cultivation processes. I don't know if you remember this case, Mr. Secretary. I believe that we should have negotiated these two together with the current bill, since the two problems are completely linked. Socially, both were bills moving towards an injustice, and so is the current bill. The question is whether the cheap and environmentally sound transport methods are supported by this proposal and whether other actions by the government have an impact in this direction. For the time being, doubts have been expressed as to whether shale gas will even surface in Hungary in the near future. On the other hand, I see what is actually a tax policy measure that has already been implemented, that the government is heavily scratching gas transport in Hungary, and that the excise duty burden on gas transport has increased. I note that Jobbik was also the only parliamentary party to organise an international gas transport conference in Paradsasvár of its own resources in which Europe's leading companies took part and expressed their views on this issue. All the other parties were gangbanging, explaining things here. We have actually listened to the profession, asked for the opinions of the companies, and we have looked at the potential for real progress in this area. If shale gas is exposed in Hungary, if gas becomes significantly cheaper, then I think that this will also be used in this area. It is also very important that the interview with the president of Gazprom has just been published, which shows that 45-50 percent of the final consumer price is actually the cost of natural gas. All other costs are so-called system charges and other costs arising from different margins. I believe that the government has made progress, and here I am also turning to Mr Szilárd Németh, Commissioner for Energy Efficiency, to create the possibility of public service in the retail gas market and to eliminate competition, as the state itself will provide energy to the population, but it must also be seen that this does not actually solve the energy efficiency problems, neither the previous bill nor the current solution, nor that this proposal has been a step forward in the environmental field, but it has been a step backwards because of the concerns that have been set out here. I also think it is important to say that the reporting obligation that is being clarified by the government in the parts of the Gas Law is again an area that I think should be further regulated and that we should go further along this path. We have repeatedly objected to the fact that the consumer price formula has now been entrusted to the Minister's self-consciousness by the Parliament, the minister who determines the price formula and thus the final price of energy. In this area, I think it is important to change, to inculcate, if you will, the rules, and in this way to make the operation of this sector predictable. I would ask Mr Secretary of State, knowing your career and knowing that you have been engaged in energy at international level, to measure yourself in the competitive sector, to represent the professional issues we have said in the government, and I believe that you can move forward in this area. I also think it is very important to say, Mr Secretary of State that it is worth considering not only new technologies and technologies that have not yet been established in Hungary, but also that if, where appropriate, companies with existing concessions on certain fields, certain gas fields, oil fields, this establishment, if the state wishes to increase the revenue from the budget by searching for mining, can be broken by asking for a greater contribution from companies that do not produce oil or natural gas in the given area, if not otherwise, to increase the revenue from the budget in this way. Or I would also suggest the possibility of letting others in and competing with other companies on the Hungarian market in order to ensure the revenue of the budget in this way, and this kind of establishment, which does not involve any tax revenue for the budget, should be broken in this way. This is a proposal to lift a simple competitive situation. I suggest you consider the government and count on that. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]]
u2015-04-14-133	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman István Apáti, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Actually, I just want to ask you one question. I would ask Szilárd Németh, with great respect, what exactly does 1 mean? § (1) formula, because I myself am a lawyer, not a mining engineer, and I would like to know what I am going to press. I would therefore like to ask for a national information on what exactly is in the numerator, what is in the denominator. Of course, I wonder if you even know what you've given me, because if you do know, I will raise my hand and apologize for my doubts both in advance and in hindsight, but if it turns out that you don't even know what you signed, then that alone is a good enough reason to withdraw this proposal from a moral point of view. So I ask Szilárd Németh to inform me and Parliament and the public of what this formula means. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the Jobbik benches.]] [[18.30]]
u2015-04-14-135	Thank you. We'll continue with the two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr István Józsa, MSZP Group.
u2015-04-14-136	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to reject in the strongest terms what the Secretary of State said to Mrs Bernadett Szél, in line with the decency of Parliament's work. It's his job to explain his party's program. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Thank you.]] and point out when the government is doing its job wrong. You've done your job badly because you've moved the entire proposal to someone you shouldn't have. I mean, your comment that you basically took this proposal in your name. Then take it back and do it properly. What he said about the MSZP comments, he wasn't paying attention. In the MSZP programme, there is support for clean coal technologies, Mr Bertalan Tóth said that the two percent better mining fee is correct. So don't try to explain something in our comment that isn't in it. What's in it is your criticism that you cannot come to Parliament with such a thing, and I ask you with due respect. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2015-04-14-137	Thank you. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Mrs Bernadett Szél, the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-138	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and my fellow Member, Mr István Józsa, for his stand. I also think that there is a level in Parliament that should not go below it. But, of course, I'm used to Fidesz constantly insulting me and making comments that I think are inappropriate. With this in mind, I will do my job, and I will do it even if my fellow Member, Mr Aradski, does not like it. More than that, because I'm convinced that that's when I'm on the right track. The laws that you bring in here in front of this House are, of course, laws that you have to look at three or four times, even if you give them under a code name. However, I would like to say one thing: you have made a very big mistake on the part of the governing parties. You are aware that the LMP chairman of the Committee on Sustainable Development has attempted to discuss this law in the Committee on Sustainable Development. I think it was very wrong that the Fidesz-KDNP arrested him and therefore could not put him on the agenda, because I think they also have to face in the Chamber that there are a number of questions that I or anyone else could have asked in the committee if you had allowed them to put on the agenda. However, if I look at the past of this salad law, I see that step by step you are constantly making decisions that suggest that you are preparing for some sort of mischief again. Given that you can call it anything, it's shale gas. As a responsible Member, I think it is my duty to warn you that you have a firm responsibility here not only for me, but also for my granddaughter and my great-grandson. So, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State, I would very much ask the Fidesz-KDNP that if such a bill is tabled, they should be so courageous and bear it that the Committee for Sustainable Development, which is precisely why it is in the Hungarian Parliament, will discuss this. And if you can't do that, then accept that there's a green representative here and there's a green couple that can see a little beyond your nose, against you. Thank you.
u2015-04-14-139	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Aradski. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-14-140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would only react because it seems - I may have heard wrong, but we will look at it in the minutes - that Congressman Bertalan Tóth supported a 2-percent mining fee for unconventional hydrocarbon. But we'll decide that after reading the report. Congresswoman, I didn't mean to offend you, so if this happened, I apologize. But it is certain that you began your speech by saying that we are here in this House, that there are the same faces, and you know in advance what we will say, what we will sit down with, and what our opinion is. He also said that you were XXI. He's doing centuries of politics, and we're somewhere in the XIX-XX. We stayed in the century. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's right! That's right.]] This may not be an offensive term for you, but allow us to have the self-esteem to reject this approach with due respect. I'm asking you not to just tell me what you think. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] Let's argue about what's in the bill. In the bill, I repeat once again, there is no question that conventional hydrocarbon production could take place in Hungary without environmental protection, without water permit and without complying with the European Union guidelines. You're a visionist, Congresswoman, and in the meantime, you've been calling me a booby, an untimely, and all sorts of other feelings. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I never said that!]] He said sentences in our direction. Please, let's ignore each other. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I didn't say that, don't put something in my mouth that I didn't say.]] such statements! I promise you that I will respect your opinion, as I have always respected, and I will conclude this debate on my part, Mr President. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-14-141	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I'm looking at Congressman Lajos Kepli. I take the Secretary of State's speech as a normal speech, and in this case I can give you a two-minute opportunity to speak. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-142	Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the floor for a two-minute speech. In order to resolve the current tension somewhat, indeed, we are quite often fighting energy issues with LMP or expressing our opposing positions. But now, in this case, we have taken an absolute common position with Bernadet Szél. Maybe there's a difference between the reasons. It is true that, even if someone is concerned about Hungary's unparalleled water supply and natural environment, it is not certain that these indicators should be his attitude. We also have concerns about the extraction of shale gas. The reason why I deliberately say shale gas, though in my speech I did not say conventional gas stocks or shale gas, is because it is a kind of, it may not be very professional, but it is a summary name for those non-conventional gas stocks that are collected in sandstone or in any other rock layer and can be produced out of it in an unconventional manner. In English, it's called shell gas. I only told you this because the congresswoman and I did not make any mistakes when we called it shale gas in summary. And the other is that you say, Mr Secretary, that, even if you create the conditions for reducing the mining fee, it does not follow that any environmentally destructive production of shale gas or non-conventional gas would occur in Hungary. Well, to draw an analogy, the criminal code also treats incitement to crime or involvement in preparation, or the provision of material assets as a crime and punishes it in the same way as the crime itself, the completed facts. From now on, it is no good to create the conditions for this non-conventional gas extraction to take place later on in an environmentally polluting way or in any other way that could harm water resources. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-04-14-143	Thank you, Congressman. I will give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind for two minutes. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-144	Thank you, Mr. President. I really want no one to put words in my mouth that I didn't say. I find this a very bad defense; to save yourself, the Secretary of State, so he says things that I never said. Please don't do that. However, this law also refers to an organisation of scope that we can safely call a ninth ministry. We are talking about the Hungarian Energy and Public Works Regulatory Office, who, as we know, is president of Lajos Dorkota. It's supposed to be an independent institution. Lajos Dorkota is known to be the president of the Fidesz constituency in Dunaújváros. In this regard, I wrote to Mr János Lázár, Mr Orbán, but in any case it seems that this merger will not be lifted by you. However, I am asking the Secretary of State if we are already together in this debate. You claim that you have been able to find out from the natural gas dealer how much Gazprom still buys gas from the natural gas trader. My fellow Member, Bertalan Tóth, asked me what I would like to ask you now, too, that if we are talking about this law, and there is this company in it, which is going to get another driver's license, so it will be even more powerful than it is now, even though it will help me to find out how much we buy gas from Gazprom, and about all of Hungary.
u2015-04-14-145	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else wants to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask Mr István Szilárd Németh if he wishes to respond to what has been said. [[On the sign of István Szilárd Németh:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman. [[18.40]]
u2015-04-14-146	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, If you'll excuse me, Lajos Kepli said after he wiped his shoes into me so we wouldn't get personal. I'm not being personal, just maybe let me give you an opinion, too, since you've jumped at me so many times from different factions and questioned all the knowledge I've gathered for the past 51 years. Of course, you have the right, but I have the right to read what I wrote about you here. . Higher-conscious polyhistors, politicians armed with uncontroversial, conceited, arrogant voice and ruthless cynicism. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[György Szilágyi: This is Fidesz. That's right.]] That's all I wrote for myself. I didn't want to talk about it, and I don't think I should do it any more, but let me do as much as I can in this personal debate, so I can defend myself, and I can say the same position I think of you in this respect. I began to present the bill by saying that this bill is as much as it is, that it doesn't want anything more. And I said the three main points that made this bill possible and encouraged. And I also told you that with all the people involved, [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] This includes market players - we are about to get to the formula - including ministries, including the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, so it is a matter of agreement with everyone. And since I have signed, I take full political, moral and legal responsibility - I don't know if I can talk about legal responsibility here, by the way - as a Member. So if you think you're scaring me with all this responsibility falling on my neck, I knew that exactly when I submitted it. The question is whether you knew, such as Lajos Kepli, whether or not you knew exactly how many legislative proposals you submitted. Exactly a hundred, 76 individual motions, 24 non-individual motions. Do you think I think you're squinting behind the desk or scratching your head - or what did you say to me? - did you write these suggestions? If that's the case, congratulations on that. I didn't write it that way, but you use experts, you use those who are otherwise preparing a bill, which, in my opinion, is a good bill, and the adoption of this will have good effect on public life. We've said that the primary thing is to change the mining fee, and I'm going to go with the formula here. This isn't for the present. In Roman law, there is a saying that the judge judges in the present, and the law is for the future. During the period of the twelve-plated laws this saying was made, and it is quite clear. When the speaker of KDNP referred to it here, Mr. Secretary of State, that it is a pity to talk about shale gas and water poisoning, and I don't know what kind of bullshit it was all about, this opportunity to prepare something for the future. And this is Congressman Józsa speaking from 40 to 50 years. Yes, we are also responsible, of course, from a green, environmental point of view, but also from the point of view of energy supply, so that Hungarian people, Hungarian families, Hungarian businesses and domestic businesses can still have safe and cheap energy in Hungary after 40-50 years. That's what this story is all about, and that's all it is. Because so far, by the way, oil has been mentioned, oil has already taken this step, gas is the only one left out, gas is the only option for natural gas, and now this bill is going to take its course. I would like to say to Mr Apáti István that if he is so proud of his legal profession, then I think he can read this formula, because he has studied statistics, and at law university statistics are quite serious, two-six-year-old studios, end up with strictness, there is a colloquium in the first semester, and let's say, if we look at the Csuprov co-efficient there, then the story is a little more complicated. So, in my opinion, that can be arranged. In particular, it can be arranged that Article 1 (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 should be amended accordingly. In addition to that in section... [[István Apáti's intervention.]] I understand cynicism, I just mentioned what's going on. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] In this formula, point 1 is replaced by the following: It clearly describes what is what, you just need to be able to read the order of operations or, if you've forgotten, I'd be happy to help. (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. ) In addition, the detailed explanation makes it clear that the essence of this... (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. ) Well, I didn't start it. I'm sorry. So the point of this is to cut it from 12 percent to 2 percent. That's all there is to this formula, by the way, and in my opinion, the person who graduated from law school certainly understands this formula. (Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. ) And anyone who comes to Hungary based on this formula and explores these possibilities will be better off. [[György Szilágyi: Are you sure that's what this is about? The president's ringing the bell.]] I'm sure. That's a hundred percent what it's about. Anyone who can't solve it has nothing to do with it; it is a pity that we have to argue about it in Parliament. It is clear that when this is adopted, it will become clear that it will no longer be 12 percent, but 2 percent of the mining fee will be based on this formula. The second thing I mentioned was the consumer protection package, a package of measures to protect the interests of consumers, both in the supply of gas and electricity, and the reinforcement of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office in connection with, among other things, the provision of data which has been mentioned here a great deal. Well, with all due respect, I would like to continue to ask the stakeholders - and this concerns all my fellow Members, in whatever faction; we know that it is also a cliché that the meeting point determines the position - to revise what they have just said and to support this bill, because the legal effects of this bill will be beneficial both for the Hungarian economy and for Hungarian society. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-14-147	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the free ownership of certain state-owned assets for the purpose of the county libraries and county-wide urban museums will follow. Lajos Kósa, János Halász, István Horváth, Balázs Simon Róbert, Gyula Vantara, Fidesz, independent motion by Members T/2379. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[Noise, Members consult among themselves.]] First, I give the floor to Congressman Robert Simon, the author of the item on the agenda. Before you begin your speech, Mr President, I would like to ask my fellow Members with respect to the loud conversation that you are having right now. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-04-14-148	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We have tabled this bill as a motion from its own representatives, and first I would like to give you a few thoughts on the history. I think it is no coincidence that this motion was tabled by Members who, in previous years, worked as mayors or deputy mayors of cities with county rights. The history includes the fact that in January 2014 the president of the Association of City Rights, the largest municipal interest representation organisation, turned to the Minister of State for Culture with an initiative. In this initiative, he asked for assistance in supporting the transfer of movable and immovable property for the provision of tasks to county libraries and county-wide urban museums into free municipal property, thereby helping the municipalities to perform their mandatory tasks even more effectively. Of course, the question arises why this is necessary. Because the current scheme makes it significantly difficult for institutions to apply, and the activation of improvements and renovations can cause financial difficulties for municipalities. Moreover, as regards cultural institutions at the moment, there is not a single, but a double ownership system, as there are institutions owned by the local government and, of course, there are these institutions, which are mentioned in our bill, which are state-owned. [[18.50]] In the present scheme there are three players in this case: the State as owner, the institution as trustee and the municipality as maintainer. The aim of the proposal is therefore to ensure that movable and immovable property for the task of county-wide urban museums and county libraries is owned by the maintenance authorities, thereby facilitating the more efficient performance of the mandatory task mentioned above. I think that a quality culture and access to it is in the fundamental interest of all Hungarian citizens. In recent years, the cultural institutional system has been able to achieve spectacular results mainly with the help of European Union proposals, and, above all, progress has been made among students, raising awareness of cultural values and making conscious use of the institutions. Here, I would point out that it is important that EU and domestic proposals be announced in the future - and I understand that they are, of course - for this purpose. After the adoption of the bill, currently state-owned real estate and movable property for the performance of the tasks of county libraries and county-wide urban museums, with the exception of museum cultural assets, will be owned by the municipalities of county-owned cities. As stated in the Annex to the Act, this affects a total of 154 properties at national level. As a Member of the Parliament of the city of Győr, I would like to point out that in the case of our city, this means nine real estates, such as the county library, the Kisfaludy Károly County Library, the building of the Xantus János Museum, or the quarry in the Kazamata and, of course, other buildings, including storage facilities. It is also worth mentioning that the law contains guarantees. The transferred property is tied to the performance of cultural public tasks, so it cannot be used for any other function, so it is linked to the purpose and the transferred property cannot be alienated by the municipalities. The disposal ban shall be entered in the real estate register. I would also note here that the transfer of property itself is VAT-free. A few more thoughts about technical implementation. Under the Law on State Property and the Law on National Property, a contract resulting in a change of ownership must be concluded, which otherwise has three conditions. The first condition is that the local government is neither with public debt nor with MNV Zrt. may not hold an overdue debt to him. The second condition is that the body of representatives or the general meeting must take a decision on the real estate claim in that municipality. The third condition relating to the conclusion of the contract is that, in order to comply with it, a tax and value certificate of the property must be sent to MNV Zrt. within a given time limit. For the full list of excipients, see section 6.1. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In summary, after the transfer of the movable and immovable property in question into free municipal property, the property of the municipalities is substantially increased, the municipalities are able to obtain development and renovation resources in the various tenders. In this sense, from a municipal point of view, there will be a single ownership system, and we hope that the level of basic cultural supply will also increase. One more thought about the application is also an example of Győr. The Xantus János Museum operates in Győr, in the building of the so-called Abbey House. The most recent renovation in this institution was more than thirty years ago, in 1983, so the renewal of the exhibition and the renovation of the building were also timely. As a multibillion HUF item, the city hopes that this will happen only by tender. This law itself will help, as the municipality will then be able to apply for a building owned by it, which will also mean that we hope that this building in the city centre, the Xantus János Museum and its exhibition will be fully renewed. Finally, I would like to thank the Secretary-General of the County City Association, who is also here with us, Erika Papp and his colleagues, for the excellent preparatory work that they have done during the preparation of the law for months, in consultation with the mayors and the notaries. Finally, I would also like to point out that the Cultural Committee of the Parliament had already discussed this material a few months ago and supported it unanimously. I hope that if this law is negotiated in Parliament, Parliament, it will receive unanimous support here as well. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-04-14-149	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Peter Hoppál, Secretary of State, who wishes to speak on behalf of the government. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-14-150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the unanimous support of the Committee on Culture on the motion of its own representatives is a message. That is why I consider it important to take a very short account of why the cultural government considers the motion to be eligible. If we recall quickly that the model of this motion was the previous amendment of the law, which came into force on 1 January 2013, according to which the county-owned cities had already received the movable property which was a condition for their operation, so all the institutions listed here by the Member, which today have 154 real estate property, are now owned by the local government in a second phase, in the actual second phase of the amendment. Since the Hungarian National Property Management Ltd. is managing the state property. Its strong guidance and legal position was that the issue of the possible transfer of property should be regulated in a separate amendment of the law, which is why this phase two decision-making initiative was presented to the House by the Members. In this special law, we can say that today's state ownership of the compulsory tasks of the local government, free of charge and without the conclusion of separate contracts, can indeed be transferred to the property of county-owned cities. For a brief thought, allow me to even discuss what is the purpose of this proposal. It was easy to see from the motion that, during today's second period of application by the European Union, when an institution-supporting county town is thinking responsibly as a county seat, it has hands tied to the renovation and expansion of the property today when it fulfills its mandatory municipal task in a state-owned property, as in the institution it has already maintained. It is therefore legitimate to expect in the motion by the representatives that this property, which the local county government can and can apply for in the new EU cycle, should be placed in the position that it may not be required to apply for a state-owned property and, in the subsequent five-year maintenance period, to conclude with such complex maintenance contracts the conditions for the continued maintenance of the property or its legal background, but that this should be done in its own hands. So by confirming the intention that the list of properties indicated in the constitution of the institutions can be found on the basis of a very simple formula, which of the properties in 19 county seats is covered, this has created your 154 list, we can say that the proposal, the bill here, can greatly contribute to the more efficient performance of the mandatory task. Therefore, the wallet supports the submission. Thank you very much. [[19.00]]
u2015-04-14-151	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr János Halász, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-14-152	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, On the presentation of the proposal, and on the presentation of the government position, my fellow Member has already spoken about the history, and I would also like to share some points on this subject, because this proposal is indeed a continuation of an earlier transformation, I would say fine-tuning. What's this about? The major amendment to the Hungarian public collection world, which was adopted by this House in the autumn of 2012, which led to the transformation, which resulted not only in a simple structural change, but also in a change of content from 1 January 2013, not only that the museums in the county and the libraries in the county had been transferred to another maintainer, from the previous county maintenance scheme, let us say, to the municipal authorities, since from the beginning of 2013, the public collection system, like the Hungarian museum world and the Hungarian library world, received several billion higher budgets, and this increase in support, this budgetary advance, this appreciation of the task, has helped a great deal in making this transformation, which often brings uncertainty in the lives of the actors, a success story. And it was. It became so, because the number of museum visitors in Hungary has increased, the number of library readers has increased, we know that permanent exhibitions have been renewed, there have been many new temporary exhibitions in museums that have helped, and we know that the library system has also become more modern and the quality of care has also increased. This was all very important. As this proposal is very important, and as my fellow Members, Mr Robert Simon, Mr Péter Hoppál, mentioned, there is now a step that can make the life of the institutions even easier. But let's look at what institutions we are talking about, because this may be a fine-tuning, this may not be such a step compared to the previous structural transformation, but if we look at what institutions we are talking about, we will be able to see that this is really a very serious matter. Because when we list 154 real estate, 154 real estate items, as is usually the case in such laws, we see the localization numbers, the cities, the settlements, but if we look at which institutions are really affected - I would like to list some - then we can feel that this is an important proposal, and so perhaps the cooperation and the common support that appeared in the Committee on Culture in addition to our bill is even greater. Among the 154 properties you can find the Cifrapalota in Kecskemét or the exhibition halls of the Janus Pannonius Museum in Pécs or Mihály Munkácsy Museum in peaceful Csaba. But the Herman Otto Museum in Miskolc and the Pannonian Sea Museum are also included in this list. The buildings of the Szent István Király Museum in Székesfehérvár and the buildings of the Vörösmarty Mihály Library in Székesfehérvár are also on this list. The Castle Museum in Eger, which is an historic memorial place, but Szolnok is also concerned with the building of the Damjanich János Museum and the building of the Verseghy Ferenc Library. The András Jósa Museum of Nyíregyháza is also among the properties to be given to municipal property. Or the buildings of the Eötvös Károly Library in Veszprém and Laczkó Dezső Museum are also in the relevant real estate ensemble. And the buildings of the Déri Museum in Debrecen, as well as the building of the Kaposvár County and City Library. Szeged also does not miss out, of course, the Black House belonging to the Móra Ferenc Museum or the Varga Mátyás Theatre History Exhibition House, as the municipality has requested in any case. And the building of the Göcseji Museum in Zalaegerszeg is also listed here, where the new exhibitions mentioned above also brought great success in the museum life there last year. So these properties are very important workshops for the Hungarian library and museum world, which is why this proposal is very important. The Bureau of the Fidesz faction also discussed the proposal, and they see the identity of the petitioners. The Fidesz faction supports the proposal and calls on this House not to be burdened with other kinds of debates to support this proposal, honourable Members. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-04-14-153	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Hiller, Vice-President of the House, lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
u2015-04-14-154	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear tableds, Dear Parliament, At the same time, we have heard three non-long comments in succession, and if they were to make an opinion based on what the rapporteur, the secretary-general and the lead speaker of the largest party of government said, in fact, if you look at the matter on a professional basis, you can't find anything wrong with it. You can't find fault because who is the fool who questions the value of Cifrapalota, or who considers the activity of any of the libraries of the county - not to violate all 18 - to be negative? At the committee meeting, and the Commission's decision was unanimous and we added our vote because we specifically wanted this debate to take place at the plenary session of the Parliament, which happens not only to be heard by the representatives involved in the committee, but also according to the minutes; because there is no doubt that the Member's comment that we were actually more than there at the committee meeting at the moment, but let us acknowledge that the committee meeting did not know in advance how many we would be at the plenary session. [[Defiance.]] But the story is not about this detail; it is about this, my dear Parliament, that the story did not start in 2012, not with that 2012 CII. It started with Law No 1. Obviously, I do not want to go through the whole history of Hungarian public education because it would be boring, on the one hand, and on the other hand this item would last an awful long time, and understanding the activities of President and the honourable notaries, feeling that there is one more item on the agenda, let us not choose this. However, I must point out that, after their government formation in 2010, although this was not in the spotlight, in cultural policy and in the transformation of the cultural institution system, the trend was not what the 2012 CII did. By the way, Law No. 1 already says [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: One hundred fifty-two!]] I would like to correct myself, because CLII. The law in 2012 does not give rise to any misunderstanding in the later debate, but it is technically clear that we are talking about the same thing. In society as a whole and in social policy as a whole, they have committed a rash centralisation. I would like to point out, with all due respect, that everything that has been under the influence of the local government for a very long time has been under very strong state control without any special professional consultation, and that it is at all the situation where the owner, the trustee and the three different legal entities who maintain it, not the decades and the change of regime, but, therefore, I have to say, that your reckless legislation has brought the day's problems, which, by the way, happens to be the author of the present case and an important official of a very important Hungarian city. [[19.10]] You're right as you say, but it didn't fall out of the sky. First, they started centralizing under a different kind of cultural leadership than is currently the case, and then when there was a change, the new minister relatively quickly realized that this direction they are following was a complete failure, because this provision of property and movable property, which, by the way, represented the common value of our nation, could be better enforced at the site, to develop it if it were kept in a large register. Now, in this law, in CLII 2012, the entry into force of which was 1 January 2013, is exactly the same as the date on which they are trying to correct what they had done wrong in respect of public institutions, and in terms of public education, this day is the day of nationalization. In the same area where, as I said before, for example, in the case of Győr, but in the case of any Hungarian city who had thought together about public collections, museums, schools, they saw in two years that a maintenance change would take place, but by the time they realized the solution to all the problems associated with the maintenance change, a maintenance change had taken place again, and the whole process began from the beginning. It goes in a completely different direction in the same country, in the same municipality, in the same areas in the two decisive directions of Hungarian social policy, in public education and culture, the process that is conducted. They will explain how they can swear to centralization on one side and make all Hungarian schools state reserve - while you are not using the word "nationalisation," only all the other parts of Hungarian society say so and think so - and in the case of Hungarian public collections and in the case of the public collections concerned it is such a mandiner story that comes to pass, and now, I note, their position from 1 January 2013 - it has been almost two and a half years since then - they are trying to clarify here. I don't have this problem with the other, but since this law isn't about public education, I don't want to go into it, I just want to show that it doesn't go in a country, in an area, within the same population, who take their children to school in the morning and see nationalization, in case the educator takes the student group to the museum in the afternoon, or maybe the parent sees a completely different direction, and that, by the way, of course, in the operation. This is not a unified mindset, not a coherent representation of all that they want to achieve, I am afraid, because it was not clear what they wanted, either in one case or in the other. However, if, as I agree with the fact that this is a major, not simply fine-tuning, then do you not think that such a law should turn to the Hungarian Parliament and ask for its opinion, vote and criticism? Of course, in a legal sense, you have the full right to submit this as an individual's motion, and I would still argue about the style, although in many respects the past half-deep has been disappointing in this respect, but when it comes to a very tangible, very significant part of our national treasure, it is not simply a question of elegance whether the government says it or whether it is a matter of any significant influence, perhaps five pro-government representatives. I would like to point out that there is a content behind this, and I am pleased that if the representatives of the county-righted cities have been consulted, but the law does provide for a different type of consultation in the event that the government is the proposer. This does not give rise to much confidence in this case in relation to the proposed legislation. I would like to mention in particular that anyone who does not see that it is not only a culture in itself, but rather a very significant national wealth is misinterpreting the situation. I admit, you didn't know, the only thing that could have been hoped for was that, by the time this was put forward, because of the two-thirds of the number of points in the law, it would not be necessary to consult themselves with the majority of their governments. In the present case, however, the most important points of the proposed law are two-thirds of the fundamental legislative points, for which a number of non-governmental representatives have to win their votes. In the form that it has been presented, and in the form in which it is not clear that all the direction that has been taken since 2010 and not in itself with this bill is being carried out on the issue of Hungarian culture, including Hungarian public education, these are very significant steps forward and backwards, in which, with conviction, I have debated this period here with my various colleagues - as opponents - who, in the majority of governments, have shown with conviction and conviction the opposite of what I am seeing here, and no doubt that you are now trying to refine with good intentions everything that you have not caused to a small extent. I've heard a few sentences here about budget cuts. Although this is not a debate on the budget, I have to say the same thing here as in the cultural professional part, that if the history of Hungarian public education had started in 2012, then it would not be possible to get involved in what I heard here, that it happens to have increased its budget step by step in different ways. Please remember that between 2010-12, on average, the budget contribution of Hungarian public education was reduced by 35 percent compared to the budget, which was far from bright in 2010, which was less important than before 2008. We all know the reasons for this, if you ask, I'll tell you, but even if you don't ask, we all know. But to raise the claim in itself at the Hungarian Parliament's debate that the budget had otherwise increased in 2012, and not to add that, in many respects, it is just that it is now or just that it exceeds what it has managed to produce until 1 January 2013, it is a half-truth that does not present the whole. Therefore, on behalf of the Socialist Party Group, I propose to you, please consider that, for reasons of substance and form, and because of the changes that have been made in relation to the referral, a law has been tabled, two thirds of which are important parts, when it was tabled, when the Hungarian Parliament discussed this today, even though it is no longer available for the two thirds of the two-thirds - not for individual representatives, and, as a government referral, after consulting the most diverse professional and non-professional circles, the cultural government and the general ministry are presenting this law, this would be a different opinion. At the moment, however, in this form and in this way of displaying it, as it stands before us, the MSZP faction will not support this proposal. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-04-14-155	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr István Apáti, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go. [[19.20]]
u2015-04-14-156	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I have listened attentively to both the rapporteur, Mr Secretary of State and Mr Hiller, and particularly in the words of Congressman Hiller, I must admit that if I approach him purely on a professional basis, I can discover quite a lot of truth and fundamental truth. Indeed, it is quite interesting about this subject, the change in the rules of this subject over the last few years, the political and professional background. In the past, the majority of these institutions were local government or county seat owners, and then in the previous cycle, during the unbridled two-thirds period, a multi-partite or multipolar situation arose, when, as many of the previous speakers have already said, the owner was typically the state, and the maintainer was practically the municipality, the local government and the trustee is the institution itself. And now, with this legislative amendment, they want to install or transfer ownership to the local authorities where the institutions are located, practically with burdens, and that is what Congressman Hiller has not highlighted, but I would point out that one of the relatively short provisions of this bill is that the municipalities receive it with burdens, which is also a very important and problematic point. Because once the government has taken the trouble, and even though there is a half-sided communication, you are here only in terms of taking over municipal burdens, which meant taking over at least 1100 billion municipal debts in the second half of the last term, again you are going to perform the false impression that you are only responsible for success. This is perfectly typical of your mentality, which you can hear on TV, on the radio, in the media, it turns out that you are only responsible for success, for failure, for burdens, not for anything else. I just want to say that although it is true that they have taken on this debt, in a rather interesting, disproportionate, often unfair way, I do not want to agree that the settlements of the county seat, the largest settlements of the country, are responsible for 90 percent of this debt, they are virtually great winners of this takeover, while settlements which have not accumulated any debt, although they have not received virtually any compensation for their conscientious, fair and honest farming and stretching as far as their blankets have been concerned. I do not want to take the debate in this direction now, but if they have done so once, and they do not mention that, by the way, from the municipalities, from the municipalities to which they are now going to impose all the maintenance costs of these institutions, even though they have taken away 60% of the vehicle tax, so they have remained 100 percent in the settlements, now 40 percent, it is not difficult to calculate that 60 percent will result in a huge loss of revenue in the municipalities. Several of the norms have been reduced or, in good case, the 2014 level has been retained by 2015, the residual portion of personal income tax has also decreased, it is not difficult to calculate that even in a relatively minor inflation, municipalities are in an almost impossible situation with regard to maintenance costs, which is an unanswered question in this law. It is true that this is not a debate of the Finance Act, but it is not possible to cover not only value-enhancing investments, but also maintenance, which in this case is a minimum of key issues, preservation and coverage. How are they going to cover the protection? We don't see these clearly and we don't see them for sure. It is understandable, of course, that it is easier to apply if the local government itself is applying, and I do not want to argue with that, because that is two or two times four. This should have been considered in the previous cycle, when a tripartite or tripolar situation was created, the difficulties it would have caused in the tendering system or in the management, administration and evaluation of applications, in any way, in creating the possibility to apply. Even then, you were warned by both the left-wing opposition and Jobbik, who had fallen into deaf ears, and now, trapped in the trap of centralization and decentralisation, trying to transfer ownership rights and property rights back and forth. So we do not have an answer or an answer - I would put it this way - about how the state will at least provide the necessary resources for the preservation of the state to the extent to which it wishes it. At least they tell us in broad terms how they will cover this, how the norms are expected to develop by 2016 and whether there will be any guarantee that the state will provide sufficient funds to the municipalities to carry out this task at least at a basic or mid-level. On the other hand, I would like to be stuck here far from with the various rights of the service or, perhaps, with regard to the burden of previous applications, if any. I would like to refer to loans taken in order to secure self-esteem, self-reimbursement or self-esteem, what about these? What about the repayments of these loans, the interest, the cost, the principal amount itself, is another burden? Because once again, it will be detrimental to the municipalities to take over these institutions with burdens. It is not enough, in itself, to ensure basic function, maintenance, maintenance, to cover all its costs, but even, where appropriate, the burdens weigh on their shoulders. This is why we have tabled an amendment and we are asking in this amendment to accept that it will be handed over to municipalities without any burden. That would be a minimum expectation, by the way. If the state has been able to bear the amount of 1500 billion or perhaps even more, I believe that this should be included. The fact that between 24,000 and 25,000 billion now, with a few hundred million or a few billion changes in public debt or how public debt increases, I believe that in this compilation, in this context, it is no longer a relevant fact. We would indeed be interested to know what kind of professional discussions have taken place, what discussions have taken place with the various associations of local governments, whether this has happened at all. Whether there have been any impact assessments, any calculations, any preliminary examination, any survey necessary for the smooth conduct of this new significant change, because they are very missing, and without this or without knowing what the fate of our amendment will be, we will not be able to make a responsible decision. This will have a decisive impact on the position of the Jobbik faction. Thank you so much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-14-157	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. As no one has made a two-minute contribution, I will give the floor to Members who have applied for a speech in the normal time frame; first to Mr László Kiss, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-14-158	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Yeah, so that's when in November 2011 the III. district municipality decided to take over the Textile and Dress Industry Museum from the foundation that maintained it and has since operated it as Goldberger Textile Industry Collection, then I myself was a member of the cultural committee that made this decision. We were standing on the basis of some of the decisions that my fellow Member Hiller has presented here, and which, by the way, was also presented by the Member who spoke on behalf of the rapporteur. So we thought that a collection of public education was in the right place at the local government. I do not understand the direction of centralisation of public education, which, by the way, not only in culture, but also in education and many areas of life, has marked the activity of the previous Orbán government, and, if you like it, an important advantage of this bill is that the centralization momentum of the government seems to be halted, and even if you like it, you want to rethink some of it. It is indeed a legitimate question, which arises in many of us whether this kind of momentum, this new direction, is indeed a new direction, or is not part of any strategy, and it is only now brought before us by some kind of fair intentions. I can't see clearly in this myself, and it's important to be clear. I also do not see clearly what was previously said about the fact that although the municipal law makes it quite clear that every municipality can undertake additional tasks if it can finance it, and since the amendment of the municipal law, a municipality has very little opportunity to introduce new funds, and even significant withdrawals have been made, I do not see from what source this goal is being achieved. I believe everyone who says that, of course, there will be additional resources for municipalities, but it cannot be built on one announcement. I think that the proposal itself is bleeding from multiple wounds or, if I like it and want to be positive, I can say that it raises more questions. Therefore, what is the basis for this proposal does not matter. When you created the law on legislation, you obviously knew why you were doing it, and when you got out, you knew why you were doing it. Precisely because of the questions to which they should now answer, i.e. how they will finance these institutions, whether the municipalities will receive additional resources, whether this is in line with the government's cultural strategy or whether it is something contrary to it, all of them could be answered in a preliminary document which, by the way, is constantly missing for all laws. We don't know that. [[19.30]] However, these are not insignificant questions. While I consider this a good direction - since the MSZP constantly says that not only in cities with county rights, but also in general, we should return to the pre-2010 order, i.e. to ensure that the institutions that were in the maintenance of municipalities also operate there - we do not see the basis or the consequences of this proposal. Until this is cleared up, I'm pretty sure we can't support it. Thank you for listening.
u2015-04-14-159	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr György Szilágyi, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-14-160	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I, too, find that the biggest problem of this bill is that they are talking about or not talking about it again, so they are not standing up and they are not honestly telling us what this law is about. They think that if they submit a law like this and give a justification like that, we won't be talking about what this law is about. You'd have to admit, if they made a mistake. Believe me, it would be much more sympathetic for people to say, yes, that we have made a mistake, so we now want to change this law. The bill before us has been tabled, according to its general justification, as a motion by my fellow Members, in order to help the institutions, libraries and urban museums with county scope to participate in tenders. According to the general justification, the current situation - that the institution owns the movable property itself, the tenant of the real estate that is held by the institution is the county municipality as a trustee, while the owner of the property is the Hungarian State - makes it very difficult to start in various tenders. Therefore, honourable Members thought it was easier, by virtue of the law, to transfer wealth to the maintenance of individual institutions than to persuade the distribution system to formulate calls for proposals and invitations to adapt to the actual situation of property and property. If you had stood up and said that this law had to be passed because of these two things, on the one hand because we have committed a faulty centralisation, on the other hand because we cannot get the distribution system to issue applications that adapt to real life, to the current situation and create the possibility of starting on these proposals, then we would say that we can support this bill, because you have stood up and have told us honestly what it is about. Now I'm going to try to play the naive one and believe what you've written here in the explanatory statement. If I accept and believe that your purpose is what I find in the general explanation, then I must not talk about the facts, but I must say that in this bill you wish to sew the coat to the button. They form a law because calls for applications contain conditions that make participation difficult. They believe that the expected time and labour needs of the transfer of assets included in the proposal will be less than the workload that the apparatus issuing the tenders should carry out in order to ensure that the conditionality does not hinder the current institutional system in the running of tenders. If that is what they think, and on this basis they are a law, they encourage the bodies and persons responsible for allocating the aid to continue to ignore the actual situation, the real needs for support, and to continue to define the conditions for aid as they please. 'Cause if that's what you're saying on the basis of general justification, you're obviously encouraging these bodies to do the same. The other is also important: there are two things in the general justification. They also want to change it in order to facilitate the more effective performance of the mandatory task. However, the justification does not indicate where the receiving municipalities will have the resources to maintain and operate the assets to be transferred. There's not half a sentence about this. As regards real estate property, the amount of the annual operating cost, which will appear as additional costs for each receiving municipality, is not known on the basis of the submission. Based on the proposal before us, we should make a sound decision without knowing how much money we are talking about, and we do not know how this will be made available. In my opinion, it is even worth highlighting the fact that real estate to be transferred must be burdened with a prohibition on disposal and that a joint decision by the Minister responsible for culture and the Minister responsible for the supervision of state assets, i.e. his authorisation under discretionary powers, is necessary to offer as collateral. If the general justification of the proposal is real - which I keep talking about - and the change in the current situation of the three players is justified, then the question arises as to why, according to this provision, a four-player situation should now be sought. Because there will be four actors: the state, the municipality and the two ministers. So what I'm saying is, when a law is filed, believe me, it would be a lot easier if you said the real facts, that you did, that we could help, change it, and maybe we could agree on a lot of things. In conclusion, it can be concluded that the actual justification for the transfer of assets is questionable on the basis of the justification. We do not disagree that it is a good decision to hand over these properties, but to disagree and raise the problem of how it will continue. Let's not make another mistake that might have to be corrected again, and you'll still try to make it disappear and hide it somehow that you haven't made a mistake. On the basis of the proposal, it is questionable how much protection and maintenance of the assets to be transferred will be ensured. And with the transfer of assets, I do not believe that real estate operators are in a simpler legal position than tendering. There are, therefore, very big problems with the justification. And how the Jobbik Movement for Hungary is going to vote for this law still needs to be considered. This also depends to a very large extent on the questions that we have raised now - whether my fellow Members or I - we are now receiving answers during this debate, how reassuring we are to have answers, as I said, about reservation, preservation and all that else. See if we can get to the point where you stand up and say, yes, we have written a general justification, but, after all, this whole law is not about that, it's about fixing a mistake that we made, and then, in all likelihood, we can support their efforts to make the whole bid better. And if you add that you also want to change the distribution system that not only operates badly in this area but still in many places, we would be even more pleased with your efforts. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-04-14-161	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, MSZP Group.
u2015-04-14-162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I believe that my fellow Member Hiller has said everything that needs to be said in a professional sense, so I would not be concerned with this part, but only with two sections on the side. One, it seems chaotic to me what they're doing. If I go back in time for five years and then examine, look at where the story is going with the institutions operated by the municipalities of different county-licensed cities, and where it is going now, I see that once they centralize, they get lost, and then they put me back. When they put you back, they don't provide resources, money on how to operate and maintain it. [[19.40]] While local authorities have a preoccupational obligation to add additional tasks to their activities, they should indicate the source of how, from what, and how the operational background will be provided. In addition to all of this, you will not only provide resources but also take resources from the municipalities. It has already been said here in the House walls, so it is not necessary to repeat very much that, regardless of whether we are talking about a car tax, regardless of whether we are talking about personal income taxes, these reductions are reflected at local government level, centralization at government level; while, in addition, additional tasks are imposed and conferred on municipalities. This is one of the fundamental problems. The other fundamental problem is not necessarily closely linked to the law, but this spirit, by the way, pervades your work in all respects, not just, let's say, in relation to libraries. So I think there's a fundamental problem here, and I think we should think about it. Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-04-14-163	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask Congressman Robert Simon Balázs... [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: I'd like to respond.]] Oh, I'm sorry. Excuse me? Mr. Secretary of State, with the push of a button, without further ado. I didn't detect it. Secretary Peter Hoppál wishes to comment. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-14-164	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Watching and partly taking note of the debate, allow me to respond partially to opposition remarks to the government. On the one hand, I would like to thank you for your modest and very clear argument from here. On the other hand, let me make a political comment on what has been said. I have taken account of the Provenienity of our fellow Members of the opposition who spoke, and I have found that in cities with county rights, neither the current Members nor the Members who had obtained a mandate in the previous term, and I have otherwise highly esteemed Members argued against the property ownership of the county-righted cities, and have taken a stand. At the same time, I would very much like to draw your attention to the fact that the Members of Parliament elected in all cities with county rights, such as they were in the previous term and now, in this position of responsibility, have put forward this bill before us. So Lajos Kósa, János Halász, István Horváth, Róbert Simon and Gyula Vantara are elected MPs in cities and constituencies with county rights. So, of course, I recognise the opposition's right to argue politically and professionally against a bill, which is why Parliamentarism exists. This is justified and, in this sense, I understand your partly questions and, in part, your position contrary to the author. At the same time, allow me to point out that, in principle, the motivation of the authors came to Parliament in a fully supported manner from the County City Association. The suggestion that came before us, both at the head speaker of the MSZP and at the lead speaker of Jobbik, is that the social dialogues may not have been complete, or were not as far-reaching as if it were a government presentation before us right now, these reasons are absolutely valid, and you are right about that. But if the parliamentary representatives elected by the county-righted cities bring this issue to Parliament, and the Association of County-righted Cities, which is the largest civil organisation that brings together these institutional supporters, and both sides agree, then I would at least respectfully ask opposition representatives to consider that this is supposed to be a thought-out, thought-out and county-righted city leadership and a proposal for the benefit of the people who live there. So I was able to put in parentheses the details of opposition speeches that questioned the credibility of this. Let me also make one more political comment. On the two-thirds side, honourable opposition representatives have often called for this, in the last five years, the principle of subsidiarity. This is not only a directive that is now popular in the European Union, but I also think it is important for democratic efforts to make decisions at the lowest possible level, preferably closest to institutions and users. If, in this sense, opposition representatives now oppose the second phase of a task to be delegated to the level of county-righted cities, when they are already receiving and expressing the property, then they argue with their earlier arguments that it would be better not to centralise, but rather to provide delegated tasks to Hungarian local government. That is the law, honourable Members, the law which you have sometimes called to account for in the majority of the government. So I report that the proposal is in the right direction, and if you have supported this motion at the meeting of both Jobbik and the honourable Members of the MSZP, I think you made the right decision when you supported it. So it was then considered that this right would be delegated on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, and at that time it was thought that this direction was right, and at that time it was still thought that this political and professional pursuit would work in the right direction. I am sorry that Congressman István Apáti, who spoke, took his bag and left the room, after which the benches of Jobbik were even more empty, and were only curious about what they had to say, but no longer about the answer. That's your job, of course. The debt transfer was also mentioned by opposition representatives, which is not strictly or in any way linked to this proposal. However, we can, of course, consider that not only the county-righted cities, but 70-80 percent of the debt mass of the approximately 3 thousand Hungarian municipalities, and its generation period, accumulated between 2003 and 2010. As a member of the Parliament of Pécs, I examined with a committee of inquiry at the municipality of Pécs exactly how many items were included in the debt. This national trend was also fully confirmed and followed by the accumulation of Pécs debt. So what we have seen is that, in terms of county-righted cities and smaller municipalities, pre-2010 measures have also led to the situation that debt has become unmanageable. On the other hand, the second Orbán government after 2010 was able to create a shift in economic policy that led the Hungarian economy to an upward trend and development path. This developmental path has been able to produce a small but stable economic growth by 2013 and 14 which made it possible to consolidate most of the large government debt before 2010. I think, honourable Member, that there is no MEP in Parliament from 106 constituencies who would say that this consolidation of the local government was an incorrect decision of the previous government cycle between the decisions of the second Orbán government. It was a grand gesture to the local government. [[19.50]] And when we have freed the municipalities from their debts, at the same time or tendentically in the same direction as their claim that... Congressman Szilágyi, allow me to consider a particular remark, to say the least, as a benevolent statement. When you argued that the maintainers are currently the county authorities, you must have said that wrong. Read it in the record, that's what you said. So, no, the county authorities are no longer maintainers, we know that, but the county-righted city is the maintainer. Mr Hiller, former Minister, when he argued that the worse system was when the ownership circle, the trust circle and the maintenance circle were truly divided: that is exactly what the proposal eliminates, so that is what he is trying to put right now. So when, let me say, with a political comment, the opposition criticises the decision-making process between 2010-12, which, according to their comments, has been in the right direction since 2013, I am pleased that you also support that these processes have been in the right direction since 2013 and that this initiative can now be completed and concluded. At the same time, I note in brackets that the decisions of the government between 2010-14 were viewed by voters in their unity when the election decision of 2014 was taken, and, as a result, in 14 the government received a large majority from Hungarian voters again. So let me conclude by saying that, in my view, we do not have a debate with the opposition. So if the honourable opposition's comments just confirmed that this direction was desirable and that the previous misdirections were not good proposals, then we already agree, we are already in agreement, because the intention of the nationalists is in line with the intention of the Association of cities with the right of the County, is in line with the intentions of the delegated Members from home, from their own city, and is in line with your subsidiarity requirements, and is in line with their request for decentralisation to prevail. So if we were to remove the mere politically motivated binding opposition rooms from your argument and write a proposal specifically in line with their substantive professional guidelines, I think that this proposal would be prepared, as the Members concerned have said. Thank you again for your participation in the debate. We could have been part of an educational and good debate.
u2015-04-14-165	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, As I did not perceive Mr Secretary of State's intention to make comments earlier, the debate will, of course, continue. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-166	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'll take a look at the record that if I made a mistake, then I'm really sorry, it was a city with county rights. But, Mr. Secretary, that's what I said, and it seems that the rest of what we said at the time was understandable, because now you've said it. I'd like to refuse a little slip. I feel that none of the opposition has said that that would be a wrong direction, which is what the real estate transfer is now. We said that we should say that, and then you said that you had the wrong direction, and now you're correcting the wrong direction with this law, which we're supposed to say is, yes, that we're decentralizing this situation is, in our opinion, appropriate. That's what we told you here. Only with regard to this whole decentralisation have we raised the concerns that I have not yet received a reassuring answer to, and I will tell you honestly where there will be resources, where we will have the resources to carry this very valuable wealth further in preservation, in further operation and even in development. So that's why I'm telling you, let's agree on this. We don't think the transfer of property is a bad course. We thought it was the wrong way around. That's all I'm saying, what you've just done is say yes, you've taken a wrong turn, and now you're trying to correct it. It would have been much easier to write this down in the general explanatory statement, and I said my speech on the basis of the general explanatory statement, but again, of course, we do not think this is a bad direction at all, but I raised my concern at the sources, which I am still maintaining, but, as I see, Mr Secretary of State has indicated, that he will also respond to this, and he may have already convinced us, and that this may also be the case in the vote on Jobbik's votes. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-14-167	Thank you. I give the floor to Secretary Peter Hoppál for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, Congressman, you are absolutely right, as regards the norm, you asked me a question about the level of government to answer. I wrote it here before, but I didn't get it out of my notes. The previous year, i.e. the end of 2014 gave us the opportunity to create a good position together during our budgetary negotiations with the Ministry of National Economy, according to which we could increase the norm of public collection and library provision in more than half of the municipalities. This typically applies to small settlements, so the current proposal does not affect it, but it is a very important development that the villages of 200-300 people, where there is no institution-building capacity, have spent 200-300 thousand forints on culture in one year, we mean that the annual spending of an entire settlement for culture is 200-300 thousand forints, the minimum standard of which has now been defined in the Budget Act from 1 January this year in HUF 1 million. I think it's a revolutionary development, a step forward. Think of a settlement of 500 people in the vicinity of its residential environment, where you already have the ability to maintain a kindergarten and a small elementary school in such a settlement, which is, say, a small region, a small centre, and there was 600 thousand forints of normative, now 1 million 200 thousand. We've doubled the normative there, that's what they can spend on culture. I think it's a very good direction. Now we would also like to increase the urban normative of Budapest and County with such a significant step in the 2016 budget, but with a visible and noticeable step, the motion of the County City Association to encourage and encourage the capital city. We've got negotiations ahead of us. I am very confident that the current state of the norm, increasing its positions, will increase your expectations and the ability to maintain an institution in cities with county rights.
u2015-04-14-169	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Again, I would like to ask if there is anyone else on the agenda before I close the agenda. [[No signal.]] No. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Simon Robert Balázs, as rapporteur, who wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-170	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'll try to be brief. First of all, I would like to thank everyone for their comments. I think that we have managed to clarify a number of issues that may have been raised by the Members during the debate. A thought about the County City Alliance. Since I myself was a deputy mayor in a county-righted town, it is indeed the largest organization that brings together county-righted cities and operates on a professional basis, it is the Association of County-righted Cities, and it is indeed a month-long preparatory work that preceded this bill to be put on the table. The resources have come up. Otherwise, it does not require more resources, because if I am a local government at the moment, and the preservation of this building, its renovation, the payment of wages and everything is my expense, then in this sense I have the disadvantage that the local government is not included in the registration of property, but in this case the state. However, this is a disadvantage in the case of a municipality, because if I have, say, ten cultural institutions in the library network, and five or six of them are the property of the municipality, and four are state property, then if I consider as a municipality which I would like to apply for, which I would like to develop, mine, in this sense my own property or its state, then one always says as a municipal player that, of course, I would much rather invest in my own property or submit a tender. It creates a unified ownership system. In this respect, I think it is of paramount importance. I felt a slight contradiction in Mr Hiller's speech, as I noticed at the beginning that he was supporting him, and then at the end that he might have become a little insecure. I'd like to ask you to support me. In this sense, it is indistinguishable that this has now been submitted by the wallet or by five pro-government representatives, who, by the way, represent cities with county rights. [[20.00]] Believe me, cities with county rights expect this to finally be able to act in a unified structure and become their property, thus making it easier for many things, such as the tendering system. So, to sum up: thank you very much for your comments, and I would like to encourage my fellow Members to support this bill when this is being debated. This will help to achieve even more quickly what the municipalities want, and in this sense, what we set as a goal when we tabled the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-14-171	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on promoting the employment of students in school cooperatives and the employment of persons with disabilities in the framework of temporary agency work follows. Lajos Kósa, Kristóf Szatmáry, Fidesz, independent motion by Members T-4288. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Kristóf Szatmáry, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-14-172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Fellow Members! In view of the progress of time, I would like to briefly summarise the content of the bill. As may have been known to my fellow Members, on average 180 to 200 thousand students in Hungary do some occasional work every year, a significant part of whom works in about 130 thousand main school cooperatives. School-cooperative employment is a special, atypical form of employment, which, due to its flexibility, is able to provide students and students with experience and legal opportunity to earn money in line with the needs, qualifications and schedule of their members. The aim of the school cooperative is therefore to provide income for its members and to create the employment opportunities of students and students. This objective is also in line with the government's efforts to ensure the location of young workers by means of public funds, contributions and other means. Moreover, this positive discrimination complies with the constitutional principles set out in the Fundamental Law, on the basis of which the State has the opportunity to make a positive distinction between disadvantaged groups in order to promote equal opportunities. If this article of the Fundamental Law can be cited, it is about the fact that, in order to reduce youth unemployment, the Parliament has already taken a number of measures to achieve employment as widely as possible, and also the government has already taken a number of measures. The Fundamental Law facilitates the implementation of Hungary's equal opportunities through specific measures under Article 15 (4) of the Fundamental Law. In addition, the bill that we have just tabled is intended to correct a regulatory deficiency, which is currently due to the fact that students who have suspended their full-time student status do not receive the same benefits when working through school cooperatives as those who have active rights. Just some data on how many students are affected, by the way. In the autumn semester 2012/13, around 258 thousand students were reported in the day-to-day working schedule, and in the spring semester 2012/13, 234 thousand students were reported in the higher education information system. By the way, 25 000 of these students were passive in the autumn and 24 000 in the spring semester, so it can be concluded that this is about 9,9-10,3 percent of the passive population for those with full-time rights and active rights. These students should, of course, also be able to make a living during the passive job themselves, given that they do not receive benefits from higher education institutions during the passive semester. The aim of the bill is therefore to provide students and students with these passive rights with the same benefits when working through school cooperatives as their partners with active law. At the same time, the bill is in line with the 2011 CLVI. Law 462/B. The conditions set out in Section 2 of this Article, which concern the fact that students and students with passive rights, as in the case of an active relationship, receive the same benefits within school cooperatives, with the restriction that they are not yet 25 years of age. I think that, in addition to the fact that this bill may indeed refer only to an undiscovered deficiency, it can also bring very serious results through young people's access to employment in order to help avoid youth unemployment. The second half of the bill brings a clearer, more transparent situation, taking into account the interests of workers with disabilities. This basically does not apply to student work, but concerns workers employed through temporary agency services. The bill would like to put a stop to the abuse of employment in connection with the rehabilitation contribution. The bill amends two laws: the Equal Treatment Act and the Rehabilitation Act. Unfortunately, in Hungarian practice, workers are still employed in a low number of jobs, as compared to the European Union, especially in the area of temporary agency work. While employment has grown rapidly in recent years, unemployment has fallen, we are still facing major challenges for disadvantaged people. That's what the bill wants to do. As a form of employment, employment is of the same magnitude as student work, providing employment for about 130,000 people. The objective is also to ensure the statutory employment rate of the disabled. At present, this principle is violated to the extent that the employment obligation is imposed on the companies that lent it, but in parentheses using the workers' work: primarily international companies as borrowers have not, in the absence of legal obligations, been interested in using the work of workers with disabilities, providing them with the possibility to work, and in many cases explicitly refusing to employ such persons. Thus, despite the fact that the rental company had such employees, it could not place the employees concerned. In the absence of placement, he either paid his own rehabilitation contribution, or in many cases he could not employ them with real work. We wish to close this loophole with the submitted bill, which we hope will increase the real employment of thousands of people with disabilities. The proposal states that in the future, the borrower and the lender are jointly and severally responsible for the part of the requirement of equal treatment in relation to the selection of the workforce, so that the return of a worker, in quotes, or the non-receiving of a worker, will also become the responsibility of the service user. On the other hand, as a result of the proposal, the obligation to pay the rehabilitation contribution will apply to the actual employer, who, in practice, we hope, will be forced to employ the disabled in the future. We hope that the proposed legislation will make a positive contribution to the further expansion of employment, both for student cooperatives and for temporary agency activities, so we ask my fellow Members to support the proposal. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-14-173	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Gábor Orbán wishes to speak. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[20.10]]
u2015-04-14-174	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, To my greatest regret at this moment, I can only report to you that there has not been a government meeting since the proposal was tabled, so I cannot share a government position with you at this stage of the debate. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-04-14-175	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have speeches from Members. The first round of these will be the speech of the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr János Pócs, Fidesz Group.
u2015-04-14-176	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Employment of young people under 25 is a serious problem throughout Europe, for example in Greece and Spain, between 53 and 54 percent of young people are unemployed. Hungary has improved indicators in this respect, as some 150 thousand young people have been employed due to the job protection action. The employment of young people aged 15-24 has improved by 40-50 thousand compared to 2010. This is due, among other things, to the fact that the Hungarian Government has already taken a number of measures focusing specifically on young people. In Hungary, in addition to studying people under 25 years of age, however, work is at a low level; it is lower than it is to the west of us, so we also have a job in this area. From the end of 2012, employment for young people started to increase from the start of the. First Job Guarantee Programme. In 2013, the job protection action was in place, which shows its success by employing more than 890 thousand people, including some 150,000 young people. Many jobs are lost to young people because of lack of experience. For this reason, until June 2016, we will spend a total of HUF 40 billion on the Youth Guarantee Programme in the first instalment. On average, between 180 and 200 thousand students in Hungary do some occasional work every year, a significant proportion of whom work in at least 130 thousand major school cooperatives. School-cooperative employment is a special form of employment, which, due to its flexibility, is able to provide students with work experience and cash opportunities adapted to the needs, qualifications and schedule of their members. The proposed provision makes it clear that the rule of exemption from the payment of entitlement and social contribution tax in respect of social security benefits is linked to the existence of a student or student relationship, including the duration of the suspension of student or student status until the age of 25. The aim of the proposal is to provide students and students with these passive rights with the same benefits for working through the school cooperative as their fellow students in full-time with active law, so that they can continue to be able to provide for themselves through work during this period. Reintegration of workers with disabilities into the world of work is a priority social task that must be promoted by all employers. The employment conditions in Hungary with regard to temporary agency work show the trend that the borrowers require a low number of people with disabilities to be hired when ordering the labour force. Moreover, in some cases they explicitly refuse to employ such persons. Thus, the fact that the employment of persons with disabilities in the framework of temporary agency work is not or is only a very small number, in many cases it is not the responsibility of the lender and it is not his decision. There is no case, either in the practice of the Equal Treatment Authority or in the practice of the courts, of qualifying the borrower as a minimum of equal treatment and the legal consequences of non-compliance. Thus, the borrower and the lender will be jointly and severally liable for the part of the requirement of equal treatment in relation to the selection of the workforce, so that the return and non-receiving of one worker will also be the responsibility of the service user in the future. As a result, the employment of people with disabilities is expected to increase by thousands. In the spirit of these thoughts and facts, I urge my fellow Members to support this proposal. Mr President, thank you for the floor.
u2015-04-14-177	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Nándor Gúr, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-14-178	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was a little surprised to hear from my fellow Member when he said almost victory reports on the development of the lives and fate of young people starting their careers. I have to say a few things to make this story clearer, and I am obviously expressing thoughts that can, of course, be adapted to this draft law. The first is that we remember the words of Viktor Orbán five years ago, the words of other Fidesz MEPs. They say they're blaring about a million new jobs in the economy, in the competitive sector. This is an important theme because obviously, if new jobs were created in the competitive sphere, say, five years from now, 500 thousand... Of course, the government spokesperson is able to say such a thing, write me down, put me in advertising when there is no real harmony with this figure. If this had happened, they would not have left Hungary by a hundred thousand. There would not have been enough economic refugees, which are by far the vast majority of economic refugees given by young people. In order to ensure that logic can be followed, I must also add immediately that young people who have left the country for the livelihood of their own families because of their forced situation, and who have worked abroad not more than a year ago, in the Hungarian statistics, to which you refer, are listed. In English: they were exiled, they became economic refugees, and because they get job opportunities and earn money out there, who do all this not for more than a year, but within a year, they are included in Hungarian statistics as employees. You are talking about an increase of 40,000 people compared to 2010; this figure affects the 15-24-year-old population; however, if you look at the number of people who have been forced to work abroad and are included in this Hungarian statistics, this figure is already missing, and we are already down to 40,000. [[Happy István: It has already started with you!]] This negative will be added even further, just to make it clear and understandable that if there is work, that work will actually appear at the level of public employment, and they will be able to show additional employment in this, and the 15-24-year-olds will be affected by tens of thousands of people. If we sum up this logical line now, the essence can be seen that, unfortunately, this age group is not a positive beneficiary, but it is accursed, sufferer of this story, that is, the story you have made in the last five years in Hungary. [[20.20]] If we are talking about statistical figures, then it is not the merit of the Hungarian government, if it is possible to show a surplus in this age group, to show a surplus in employment, but the merit of those working abroad, of those working abroad, of those who work abroad, of those who pay taxes abroad. Hungary, not Hungary, the Hungarian government, is more ashamed of the fact that it did not provide employment for these young people, and they had to leave the country in a forced way. So much for the introduction of labour statistics. The other part of the matter, which is specifically related to working within the framework of the school cooperatives, could be put in one sentence by saying that it is correct that the path for which they have come to that point after five years, the inspiration of many professional organizations, not as a professional organisation, but as a political party, the Hungarian Socialist Party has also initiated the completion of this process several times, so they have corrected a deficiency, but this has taken five years to get to this point. Positive discrimination within the framework of a passive relationship - I think that is what the Secretary of State has said - is appropriate in my judgement. It is also appropriate to consider that students, students who, for, say, a six-month period, are forced to suspend their student status on such grounds of consideration or coercion, where appropriate and in many cases today, are a problem of living by bridging this half-year. That it is a problem of living, and it can be traced back to how you govern it again, because there are many families in Hungary today, where if, say, more children want to learn and learn in higher education institutions, then it is not certain that they can do so, simply because the vast majority of families cannot finance it. You yelled quite loudly when a few thousand HUF tuition fees were introduced at the time, and now, if we look at, let's say, what the cost of a semester is, then these must be measured not in a thousand, not in ten thousand, but in a hundred thousand forints. One word, like a hundred, brought to life a situation in which all the forints that can be obtained in this sense became very important either for the active student or for the passive student. So I therefore think that it is absolutely right, necessary, late to fill the gap and correct the deficiency that is now taking place here. The other part of the bill concerns things relating to the hire of workers for people with disabilities. I absolutely approve and support the fact that not only the lender, but also the borrower, must comply with the provisions and provisions relating to equal treatment. This is appropriate, because it is thus practically the situation that is being brought to life within the framework of other normal relationships, not in the context of employment with disabilities, but in relation to other legal relationships. Practically the same rules are in place, they are in force and should therefore be supported. But there's an unclear question, at least in front of me. Help me, I might not see it right. When counting into statistical numbers, I read that this is happening at the borrower's place of business. However, the reasons for the draft law are set off by the lender. If I read it correctly, there is a contradiction in this regard. I'm guessing you don't want to report this to the borrower in a statistical sense. I'm guessing you don't want to make further statistical changes by slipping, and you want to create a statement of employment that's not correct. As they are doing today, of course, as I indicated, you are through the advertisements, written sentences, or written sentences of the government spokesperson. It would be good if it were exact, it would be clear, and naturally it would only be counted in one place in the statistical sense. The same applies, of course, to the payment of the rehabilitation contribution. Who - the lender or the borrower - will pay? After all, this is a significant sum of HUF 964 500 per person per year. So it's a big sum. It doesn't matter who pays it, and naturally it's just one person, not both. To sum things up - with virtually two ideas - I would know that by applying the principle of positive discrimination between active and passive relations, the Hungarian Socialist Party is eligible for funding in line with the passive student relationship. I'm telling you, all the criteria, all the concerns, can now be supported without any concern. In the other case, however, I feel that, in line with the temporary agency for people with disabilities, I should clarify what I have said earlier. It would be okay if, in the context of this debate, it were clear that it would be possible to move forward with a calm spirit on this issue. And I find it very regrettable that, if not by many of us, I see that, in addition to the presence of some pro-government Members, we cannot get to know a point of government on this issue, because it would also be good to see clearly and clearly how the government deals with this. It would be good if, in the midst of Parliament's walls - if we are used to the fact that, in the period of committee negotiations, the representatives of the government always say that there is no government post, we can say that there is a wallet post, but when something comes between Parliament's walls, there will be a discussion outside the framework of committee meetings, then it would be good to have a government post in line with the draft laws. So with great respect for the future, I would like to ask not only for this law, but also for other laws, that, in order to avoid this hiatus, this deficiency, the government should do all that is necessary and have positions in front of the walls of Parliament when the law is being debated in front of the walls of Parliament. I won't waste any more time, if necessary, then I'll signal the demand by pressing another two-minute or normal time frame button. I would like to ask my fellow Members or Secretary of State to try to answer the unclear question and questions. Otherwise, everything that is good will be supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party in this respect. Thank you very much.
u2015-04-14-179	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Farkas, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-14-180	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Members present! On behalf of the Jobbik faction, I can provide support for the governing parties and the submitting representatives on this proposal. But the question I have to ask is why just now. Why did you just submit this proposal? The problem was not just created, it is a proposal for several years, so much so that Jobbik literally submitted on 18 January 2013 a bill on student work, setting up the relationship between passive students, which you rejected at the time. [[20.30]] I trust that we will see a similar development of character from the government as demonstrated by the pro-government representatives, because two and a half years ago, you are on our proposal - I could also quote the reference to the minutes, but I do not want to waste time - they said that it is not realistic, it is a conscious decision on your part, that they do make a distinction between active and passive students, and that many other arguments, which I think you now think are funny, have been put forward why they do not step forward for tens of thousands of young people. Fortunately, they have now come to the point where you have submitted this proposal and, fortunately, it seems that together with the support of the other opposition parties, it can be adopted as a consensus proposal. The most important question is why just now. Don't get me wrong, I don't feel that this is an insult from Jobbik's side, but I need to know and let it be said here that many professional organisations have demanded this, from the youth organisation of the workers' councils the Student, ISOSZ, HÖOK, many organisations who see the problems of young people well and have found that this is an unjustified discrimination between passive and active students, because in many cases, according to a survey, 70 percent of passive students pass because they simply don't have the money to continue their studies. So it is logical to promote their employment, and it is indeed an opportunity for the school association to ensure the legal environment, to ensure that it is not fooled by employers. So, in many respects, this school cooperative system, which is a Hungaricum, is indeed beneficial for young people, and those with passive student rights also deserve to be able to work in this way, thereby raising money for the subsequent continuation of their studies. I would therefore like to ask you to be open to the fact that, if we have heard, in yesterday's speech before the agenda of the pro-government Members, how important a consensus search is, and this is what this Parliament should seek, then you should also have the ability to be open to proposals from either Jobbik or other opposition parties, and I say once again, not from our point of view of sensitivity, but, for example, in this particular case, we have wasted two and a half years, and in two and a half years, tens of thousands of young people have not been able to take advantage of this opportunity, they have been unduly excluded from this opportunity. So that's the most important thing. I don't want to go as far away as Nándor Gúr did, but let me take a detour. While we are talking about student work, we also need to add - even because unfortunately, there is very little talk of problems around student work here in the House - that there are very serious problems in this area, which we feel - and we feel from the reactions of the young people - that the government is not paying enough attention. A few years ago - I looked it up - about two years ago, I was dealing with this issue in an interpellation - on 21 May 2012 - in which I listed concrete examples of student workers, in most cases on the part of the employer, in rare cases - but we also have to say this - there are things on the part of school associations that raise serious concerns. Poor young people who do not have adequate legal knowledge because of their age, do not know what to do at this time, are often glad that they are able to find a place at all, pay somewhere to do their job, so they often do not dare to raise their voice against these maladministration, they are in a very vulnerable position. I asked the government why they would not create the opportunity to help these young people. Indeed, it is possible to set up a complaint centre, any opportunity where young people can make their complaints anonymously. It could be, say, within the public education system, or in high school, to spend an hour or two preparing young people for what they need to know about student work, what their legislative options are, what they need to know, and many other opportunities. Instead of having a meaningful dialogue with the government about what options would be, which of these would be relevant, which is redundant, which is feasible, which is not, I was given the instructive answer that practically everything is fine in this area. I can read this answer in practice:, As you can see, Mr Zoltán Cséfalvay, Secretary of State has responded - regulatory, legal and control frameworks and conditions guarantee that abuse is as minimal as possible or that there is no abuse in student work. Once again, I find the attitude here offensive, that it was not open to dialogue, that what we can do to help these young people, what we can do for them, but the instructive answer is that everything is okay in this area, there is nothing to do, the legislative environment is given, young people should be happy to have a place to work. In this, I would ask for openness, or for a dialogue with opposition parties or professional organisations, on how we can help young people in this area. Just as we can now help tens of thousands of young people with this small amendment, I do believe and know that we can help these young people with further changes in legislation or even by launching campaigns, so that they can do student work under normal conditions and providing legal certainty in the best possible conditions. In conclusion, we therefore support this proposal, not only the part concerning student work, but also the other part. I have made my comments mainly on student work, but we can support the proposal as a whole. At the same time, I call on the present pro-government representatives to be more open to comments from the opposition or professional organisations, as this will help young people and, in particular, to be open to student work, so that we can take further steps in this area that will help young people in this area to work, because we do feel that there is still work to be done in this area. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-14-181	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We will now continue our work with two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Mr László Kiss, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2015-04-14-182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If I can start with a positive idea, I must say that I consider it an explicit advantage or a good side of the proposal to deal not only with the student relationship which has been mentioned very often in this debate, but also with the student rights that my fellow Member Pócs mentioned. This is, by the way, extremely sympathetic to me in this proposal, and therefore I can certainly support this proposal. I am all the more in favour of this proposal, because the question it answers is really very important, because so many people have never studied in Hungarian higher education as many as they do at present. This is true even in the percentage, not only in the absolute number. And there are a lot of students and students who cover the cost of your tuition from this job. I think that this proposal is very helpful to these students, and it is also a great help to students - not students, but also students in public education, where appropriate - who have stopped their student status for financial reasons. I therefore believe that the MSZP can strongly support this proposal, since we see that there may be a bit of light in the tunnel that these students have entered. Another issue is, of course, that we are obviously not out of this tunnel yet for different reasons, but we hope that government initiatives will come in the next period, which will significantly improve the chances of young workers and young people in the labour market, as compared to the current carving. Thank you for listening.
u2015-04-14-183	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with speeches on a normal time frame. I give the floor to Congressman János Pócs, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-14-184	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Excuse me at this late hour, but I believe that, in addition to one statement by Mr Gúr - all the others, but especially one statement - we cannot go silent. When Congressman Nándor Gúr says that young people are the victims of this story, I would like to remind Mr Nándor Gúr that, as much as he wishes to make it seem, that Fidesz has been on the government since 2002, it is not so. I would like to compare the period when you were on the government and when we were on the government with two serious approaches. [[20.40]] We know that the main virtue of Congressman Nándor Gúr and his associates is the alarm. We remember when the 23 million Romanians were alarmed, they took away their pensions, hospitals, and then they brought the prescription fee, the visit fee, and we could continue for a long time. It's true that your virtue, your dictionary, didn't include the job protection program. Congressman, you may be alarmed by the importance of young people's migration, but you know that keeping young people is the main thing that Hungarian jobs can do. It is true for Hungarian jobs that they cannot pay double, as in Austria, Switzerland, Germany or France, but this government did not send a message to employees, employers, young people that they could go away, as you and your prime minister had said at the time. Yeah, well, that's what we're gonna do. But it is also a big thing that these companies no longer leave, but are developing in Hungary, they are expanding in Hungary, and thanks to the job protection action programme - no matter how sour the grapes are for you - 40-50 thousand more young people work compared to 2010. And, Congressman, you are not hurting the government, you are hurting not the Secretary of State and not this programme, but the young people, the young people who will benefit from the 40 billion forints provided by the Youth Guarantee Programme. If you, when you were on the government, couldn't use me, if you couldn't use me in opposition, at least you wouldn't hurt young people. Of course, you can understand your point of view, you have to understand, the popular saying is that it's hard to believe someone is telling the truth if we know we're lying. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-04-14-185	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We will now continue with the speeches of the Members who have applied for speaking in the normal time frame. I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr in a 15-minute time frame. [[Happy Stephen: That's not enough!]] Here you go.
u2015-04-14-186	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's enough, that's enough. My fellow Member János Pócs spoke to me, so I must say that I have heard as much nonsense as I did in the past few minutes, simply because if he had listened, in the 10-12 minutes that I said, partly in addition to and in addition to your introduction, he should have heard that my position regarding the draft law was clear to me personally, as was my fellow Member László Kiss's position, which was that although we consider the story to be late, because in five years they would have had the opportunity and opportunity to assist tens of thousands of people in a passive legal relationship, to whom this would have meant tangible surplus forints in their daily lives, although they did not do so, they have now made a draft law, and our answer was that we absolutely support it, because we feel that it would help them in acquiring the means of living. So everything you've said before, if I don't want to put it another way, I just call it nonsense, because we support it, we find it delayed, but we support it. The other part of the story, which comes from you in the context of various hasty thoughts, is that when you talk about an action programme, an action plan, you should always remember the Prime Minister's words, although he also says that you should not look at what I say, but what I do, something like that about the story of WikiLeaks. Well, he said a million new jobs in the competitive sector, in the economy, in the world of tax forints. The job protection action plan and a million new jobs born, born, required, producing tax forints in the economy and in the competition sector are quite different! One is about how existing positions can be maintained for jobs and the other is about how new positions can be created. You can lie to the ether that the number of people employed in the competition sector has increased by 450 thousand, you can lie in it, you do it day after day, you see, I told you the example, about the published article and advertisements published by the government spokesperson, and in the meantime reality - everyone in this country knows - is against it. In the course of four years, between 2010 and 2014, there is no substantial shift in this respect, and within one percent movement in the competitive sphere can be detected. You're right, not one percent. The number of people employed in the competitive sector is not much higher than 1 million 800 thousand in 2014. Yeah, in the competitive sphere. One percent of that is roughly 18,000. This is the difference - not even because 14-15 thousand people - that they can account for. What are you talking about? Tell me about the $500,000 you're missing. They know what they promised! So what I'm trying to say is that it's pointless and it's pointless to say sentences that come back on you and that can be disproved from guts at the first moment, based on facts. Lying by trying to blacken or defile others, cannot be obscured and masked, lies remain lies, and untrue things remain. [[János Pócs' intervention.]] What you have said in this regard cannot be replaced by other sentences. The job protection action plan is not job creation, it is primarily job retention. You didn't commit to it, you didn't gain governance by promising a million new jobs. And you know, when we talk about tuition or anything with a few thoughts thrown in, no matter what we talk about - so think about what he looked like then and what he looks like today, I don't really want to leave the topic, but how much of the resources in the education system were put in before 2010, for example, if we're already here in the context of student status, in the system of higher education: it was close to 200 billion forints. Then, if we look at the year 2013 or the year 14 we will see that there was about one third less resources in 2013, but not much more in 2014, it did not achieve what was before 2010. What are you talking about? And then we didn't talk about tuition fees, which I just mentioned for a sentence, that, for example, in my narrower Patria, Miskolc, during the semester of an economist's education, students would not pay 3 thousand forints of tuition, no, not 30, no - nearly ten times! Do you know the difference between 3,000 and 300,000 or 3,000 and 200,000? It's a lot. Sixty times? Eighty times? A hundred times? You can thank me for that. Are you surprised that far-reaching majority of people condemn the kind of behavior that, I can say calmly, lie to them and do something completely different? Well, I'm not going to these waters, but I just wanted to confirm to you that I don't think it's right what you're doing in this regard. [[20.50]] We have taken a clear position on this bill, and I repeat it now, just to deepen it in you. All that appears within the framework of a passive relationship and student status, i.e. the same as within the framework of an active relationship, all that has been supported for many years by a multitude of professional organisations and political organisations, has been asked for, and you have not heard it for years, but you have now somehow come to the walls of Parliament, in this form it is supported by us. Do you understand? He's got support. With regard to the other part, which I have asked for, I would like to ask with great respect that, in respect of people with reduced working capacity, the issues raised today as a question of temporary agency, as a result of the justifications of the law and other situations affecting the loan tax and the borrower, should be clarified. Mr Pócs, perhaps you can help me more by telling me what this situation looks like, because it belongs to this law. But if you do not know, I would like to ask with great respect Mr Secretary of State to try in this, even if there is no government post, but to make his professional position clear, so that we can see clearly what this issue looks like. Where does it appear through the statistical registration system regarding the hiring of people with disabilities? The loaner or the loaner? Where does the scale of payment of the rehabilitation contribution appear? The loaner or the loaner? Be clear, be clean. There may be a question that, because of my lack of understanding, I may not know or not well, but then do it, Mr Secretary of State - I see a pressed button, thank you for that - to answer these questions, too. Let us be clear so that we can continue to speak in order to ensure that not only half of this draft law is without limits, but also in respect of the other half, the subsidies which I consider to be important for the sake of the matter can be granted on the part of the political parties. Perhaps in this tone, in this tone, and in this approach, you can move forward for the cause. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Laszlo Kiss applauds.]]
u2015-04-14-187	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary Gábor Orbán. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-04-14-188	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Members, Honourable Congressman Nándor Gúr, I think it is important, even though you have partly deviated from the subject or it is late, to respond to your comment on statistical data, I cannot go without saying what you have told us about employment data here, just for the record. According to the data I know, the number of employees in Hungary is 4 million 121 thousand, these are the data of the HCSO. The period during which this was measured was between December 2014 and February this year. This was 111,000 higher than the one year earlier. I see there's a significant difference between what you mentioned and what I know. I am forced to think that your misconceptions about economic policy and the state of the Hungarian economy may stem from the fact that these data are not correct. As the Public Works Programme was already in operation at the beginning of 2014, I do not think that 111,000 people are likely to have a significant share of the increase in the number of participants in the Public Works Programme. We know very well that the competitive sector has given a significant share of this 111,000. As regards the doubling of the statistical inventory, this bill does not double it, nor does it overlap with the statistical inventory of temporary agency workers. It's not like that. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Christopher Szatmáry applauds.]]
u2015-04-14-189	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Before I give you the floor, I would like to point out to everyone that we are debating a draft law on the promotion of the employment of students in school cooperatives and the employment of persons with disabilities in the framework of temporary agency work. With due respect, I ask you to consider this. I now give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr in two minutes.
u2015-04-14-190	Mr. President, I respect your request. I have two short thoughts. One of the things that has been said earlier is that it is an important thing to reduce youth unemployment, taken into account by my fellow Member, Mr Szatmáry, Secretary of State. I completely agree with you. It's important. That's how I see it. I must say that I can say different dates, during the period of the economic crisis in 2008, there are 60,000 unemployed people in the 15-24-year-old population. 2014: 68 thousand. This is not a reduction, and in the meantime, rules have been laid down to ensure that benefits with a duration of 3 months instead of 9 months, so that people will obviously fall out of the system sooner. Yet, in addition to all this, hundreds of thousands of people left the country, many of them were young people who found work elsewhere, and they did not have to become unemployed at home, and then I stopped sticking to the word. I'm just saying that numbers without explanations, without additional thoughts are empty sets, or there are many ways to play with them. The other thing Mr. Secretary said briefly. Secretary of State, the difference that appears in the statistics on employment five years ago and now is essentially due to two or three things. One: from the dynamic growth of public employment, two: from the part of those working abroad, especially young people, who have worked abroad less than a year ago [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Three: Breaking into, say, four hours of employment and growing it. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-14-191	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Kiss, MSZP Group, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2015-04-14-192	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not want to abuse your patience, fellow Members, but I have a few comments too. In fact, when I listened to the previous debate, or listened to this distasteful conversation, I thought that those affected by the bill were, in bad times, 9, and in good times, 16 years old when the questions that my fellow Members had raised here about Ferenc Gyurcsány and the others were to be raised. This shows the relevance of this issue in this regard. It's nothing. But I'm a history teacher, which is why I like to know and clarify the past, so let me quote you literally from somewhere, and then it becomes clear later. It is possible to give examples and decide whether we want to have Slovak relations with Slovak pensions. Of course, you don't have to pay taxes on dividends, you don't have to, you don't have to pay as much social security, you don't have to, but in essence, besides the Hungarian price line, pension is half as much as we do. Is this the program for employers? I can ask you a hard question, too. And how are we going to pay the pensions? How? You can leave Hungary, you can leave us here, please, please, here, you can go!This was said in 2006 if the protocol is not misleading, at the meeting of the National Council of Interests, which you have abolished, on which the then Prime Minister, Mr.Gábor Wide, an excellent representative of the Hungarian oligarchy, had this answer to the question of the then Prime Minister, who indicated that he did not want to pay the burdens that everyone would have to pay in order for Hungarian workers to be in a more favourable position and that Hungarian people would have a pension. [[21.00]] In this regard, the Prime Minister said that the oligarch who does not wish to participate in the operation of the Republic of Hungary after putting the extra profit in his pocket could go. That was the answer. This was not about workers who have suffered from these oligarchs ever since. It is important to record this in terms of seeing who can and can't go. In this respect, I am sure that I have no quarrel with anyone who thinks that the oligarchs who exploit Hungarian workers can go from this country. Yeah, you can go to these people. I'd like to go back to the law a little longer. I'd recommend it for consideration... [[To intervene:]] The problem, my fellow Member, is that I am not a medical educator, so my competences are unfortunately difficult to understand. If we go back to the law, allow me to say that it would be worth thinking about the employment of people with disabilities - in addition to the fact that I am very good at the direction in which the proposal starts - so that the preparation of equal opportunities plans at work, which are not required at the moment, should be made compulsory or move towards the direction that the national spoke about so that workers with disabilities can get real value-making work, not alibibe their employment, but can actually do the work that suits their qualifications. In this context, it may be important that the equal opportunities documentation and the equal opportunities activities of companies operating in Hungary are so prepared and so well founded that they can actually employ workers with disabilities in the labour market in a way that will satisfy everyone. I know that this does not necessarily have to be done in the course of amending this law, but I would ask both the present representative of the government and the author to enforce this direction later on, which is about helping people with disabilities to work usefully by enabling companies themselves and the Hungarian employers to be able to employ these people in a useful way. Thank you for listening.
u2015-04-14-193	Thank you. For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr.
u2015-04-14-194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for Mr. Secretary of State's reflection. I just told you, I'm not going to repeat how the surplus comes together. It is possible to create a situation in which, while not being the result of the government, everything seems to be what it is. But this is not what I want to deal with in these two minutes and a half, and not only with the employment of people with disabilities through temporary employment, but also with the issue of public engagement in terms of employment in general. In terms of state involvement, I would like to say one thing, not to question it, not to discuss it at this late hour, but only to suggest it to your attention. I would like to point out to you that you should look at how and how the employment of people with disabilities, in the context of the ministries and the background institutions of the ministries, looks at the extent to which they are present. In the economic sphere, it is expected that if there is an employment space of over 25 people and does not fulfil 5 percent of the employment combined with a disabled person, 964 500 HUF per year should be paid as a rehabilitation contribution. How does this happen in the ministries? Do you have these rates? What kind of payments are there? I think if you look at it, it's gonna be a weird picture. Make it better. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-04-14-195	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask Mr Kristóf Szatmáry if he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Kristóf Szatmáry: Yes.]] I give the floor to the congressman.
u2015-04-14-196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, One always has good hopes for a debate on a proposal submitted that clearly has the support of all parliamentary parties, yet it is a debate that is unfortunately a recurring disease of the Hungarian Parliament. I would not want to bring here a wide-ranging explanation of the consequences of this on Hungarian public life, so let me say a few things about the proposal that has been submitted and then react briefly to the general context. I think the bill concerns a very important area. On behalf of my fellow Member, Mr Farkas, it has been said that student cooperatives are a Hungarian speciality for the employment of young learners, which can be a European example if we do it right and try to improve their economic opportunities as much as possible. It was said in the debate why we are submitting this now and why. I have two things to say. In the autumn, in the course of Fidesz's amendments, we presented a major proposal to ensure the whitening of the sector and the employment of all of them, which concerns the reverse payment of VAT. So this isn't about an ad hoc thing, it's about constantly watching, monitoring how we can improve this area, how we can clean it, and now it's time. It is, of course, possible to argue whether this could have been done two years earlier or not, perhaps every page can justify its position, but it is certain, my fellow Members, that with this amendment we are putting a circle of support into the system, which is likely to have budgetary implications, because the benefits that only active students have had so far can now be used by tens of thousands of others. Here, therefore, the economic consolidation of which the Hungarian economy reached an important stage in 2015 already makes this possible. It is possible to argue that it could have been a year or two earlier, but this certainly has economic implications for the budget, which is worth saying here. In answer to my fellow Member in Gur's statistical question, I can confirm that we will continue to consult and that there will probably also be amendments to the proposal. Of course, the intention of the petitioner or legislator was to apply statistically to employers, to avoid duplication, and to make payments there. With regard to abuses, I say to Mr Farkas, as a Member of Parliament, that if there is any proposal that can improve the better detection of possible abuses or the need for companies to comply with their laws, we would be happy to see their proposals on this, even if they are not very fit for inclusion in this bill. We can be partners in this. I think it is a proposal that can support everyone in the substance of the debate. It's hard for me to stop, but we're here in political colors beyond the professional debate. This debate will also be held at every committee meeting with my fellow Member in Gur. I don't understand numerology in such a way that as an economic man, I'm based on the four principles of two and two. One thing is certain that in 2002, when you took over government as a result of the election, Hungarian unemployment was around 6-7 percent. [[21.10]] This went up to eleven percent during your administration, and in today's period it is again around seven percent. By the way, I would like to point out that the challenge for the future, although there are significant differences in areas here, is now a problem in many areas of labour shortage. This will take us to another area. I do not think it is necessary to confirm from the Secretary of State, but it is worth saying that, according to the simplest calculations, at least half of the employment growth seen in recent years does not come from public employment, but is done on a market basis. I can also confirm this from the side of the needs of entrepreneurs, as, I say, there are a number of vacant posts in Hungary that are not present in previous years. And then I would not bring here what, of course, has been done to eliminate unemployment, but I think that, for example, historical steps have been taken over the past period to reduce taxes and contributions on work, taking into account our little 25-year democracy. Allow me at the end, however, to comment on this, I do not know how to say, on the statement of our former Prime Minister László Kiss. I would just like to suggest, as you said, to people who are receptive to history, that we could bring in a number of other sayings to the former Prime Minister, which, I think, qualifies as his personality. I would only suggest that you take a look at the composition of the National Stakeholder Council. They're supposed to be oligarched all over the place? Just because many representatives of the economic sphere, organisations representing small businesses and several organisations were there, to link them with the Prime Minister's words to only one person [[László Kiss: Gábor Wide.]] And it would have been all about certain oligarchs, and thus washing him from his statement, I think, that this is a historical distortion, as well as a history teacher. Many of the Members who are sitting there, who I am personally familiar with, confirm that this was the whole of the Council, where a number of them were there from small entrepreneurs to employees. So I think your statement, however we try to adjust it, is unsuitable. I just wanted to confirm the credibility of history we know here. But I don't really want to go this far or continue this. I would like to thank you for the constructivity you have made in relation to the proposal you have tabled. I would ask my fellow Members, if they have improved amendments, to present them, and as a rapporteur, I can say that we will examine and support this, to the best of our knowledge. Thank you very much for your support.
u2015-04-14-197	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the meeting of our agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. After today's agenda, Mr Zoltán Magyar, Member of the Jobbik Group, asked for a speech entitled: "The Issues of Hungarian Beekeeping." I give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-04-14-198	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! It's not the first time I've spoken on this subject, and if this is how the government continues its activity in this case, it's probably not the last time. There's a double actuality that I've just asked to speak again. On the one hand, because April has arrived, and the problems of beekeepers have appeared even more. On the other hand, because there has been no meaningful response to the problems raised previously, it is only a misconception and a promise, which, by the way, beekeepers have had enough of for quite some time. As Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, a few months ago, I asked beekeepers from all over the country to participate in a professional discussion and to discuss their problems. And as I promised them, I also translated this into this House, both in the form of written questions and in the form of speeches. Well, it's been so long since I think I'm going to have to ask the government to take decisive action in this direction again. Because it doesn't matter what I'm talking about, beekeepers with five hives, 100 or 200 hives, or beekeepers from Tolna, Békés, Győr-Moson-Sopron County, they said the same problems around here. At the beginning of this speech, I would like to stress that they are not asking for money, they are not asking the government for more help, they are asking for financial resources, they are simply asking for minor changes in legislation and the maximum use of existing opportunities. By the way, for beekeepers, four out of the last six years have been extremely difficult, burdened with losses. Many of them, by the way, are living up to their last reserves, so I also intend to use these manifestations as a kind of cry for alarm. What we need to know about the products produced by beekeepers is that in our country, I think, perhaps in a unique way, they have always produced exportable products, and in this way it is in our national economy's interest to pay more attention to this sector. But, as I said, unfortunately, all they got were bullshit and promises. What are the most important problems? The system of bee health officials is, you might say, a system that is based on good foundations and has good historical traditions, but it cannot fully fulfil its role, quite simply because these bee health managers are not full-time. They were not given adequate opportunities, resources and powers to carry out their duties. But now they have a much greater responsibility than ever before, since uterine density has reached a critical level in our country that makes it difficult for them to do their job and carries much more uterine risk. We want them to be full-time, get districts, and besides being full-time, of course, their accountability will increase considerably. We would like you to keep in touch with the notaries and, in any case, in agreement with the notaries, we would say that the number of beekeepers around the settlement, the number of areas suitable for bee-breathing can be of a bee density, and that would result in a reconciliation of positions familiar with professional and local relations. As I mentioned, the density of bees has grown brutally in our country. This is partly due to the launch of young farmers' applications, which we are of course pleased with. But here I would also like to switch to training or training beekeepers. After all, it is not a saving direction when someone receives the 11 million HUF grant and, let's say, starts by buying an SUV for 6 million forints, some equipment, and then wonders if the story doesn't work, certainly the bees are dying, and they don't bring the expected quality and quantity they should. We have also said criticisms, mistakes, problems about the support system, it is an opportunity for serious abuse, I cannot read the beekeepers' proposals in detail now, we have placed them on the table, they are waiting for answers. I would like to underline here that I do not feel bad that I, as a better Member of Parliament, have not received correct and clear answers, but that it is wrong that if the sector lays down its requests and needs so clearly, specifically and clearly, why they cannot receive meaningful answers. I stress that no HUF would cost more to reform the aid scheme than it currently costs. Quite simply, this amount could be used logically, fairly. I've already touched on education. It is amazing that with a few months of training, anyone can be a beekeeper in Hungary. They have unleashed a brutal bee health risk for this country that could put the entire sector back on track for decades. I'm afraid there's a long list of problems, but my time is up. Please honor the Hungarian beekeepers by responding to this. Thank you, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-04-14-199	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Kiss, MSZP Group, also spoke after the agenda, with the title of our current national policy affairs. I give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-04-14-200	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, What could be different in national politics than the RMDSZ on the line XII. Zsolt Semjén, Deputy Prime Minister, represents the government at a high level, according to press information. Those who monitor the situation of Romanian Hungarians and Romanian domestic politics know that today, in practice, the Romanian Hungarian national community can tell itself a number of rights that it could not have dreamed of before 1989. [[21.20]] On the 25th anniversary of the DAHR, Federal President Hunor Kelemen summarized this:, Then we would feel the full weight of the last 25 years, if there were no news by tomorrow morning or ashes of the more than 1400 educational institutions in which to study from kindergarten to graduation in Hungarian. If 154 high schools had a cool place, or if we were looking for 18 sporadic colleges from Banat to Fields in vain, not to mention that our full-scale mother tongue higher education would be destroyed, and there would only be dozens of Hungarian places in the Faculty of Arts. But at least it would be so terrifying that if tomorrow morning there were only a few of the cultural institutions that were dying in 1989, they would have lived their final days. And what a shock it would be if there were nothing left of the more than 800,000 hectares of public ownership forest, or if the hundreds of church properties that were partially returned would be sealed tomorrow. Not to mention how strange it would be if the language rights were to be abolished by tomorrow morning, and the local names should be written in Hungarian newspapers and publications again; if we could only ask for a passport every two years, and even if we could not leave the country. That's what President Kelemen Hunor said. Those who have followed the work of the RMDSZ know that the alliance is the most stable, permanent political organization of the Romanian political life, since it has not changed its name or programme since its founding for a quarter of a century, and that is only about it in Romania. During his role as a government, he not only supported popular decisions, but consistently assumed responsibility for the acquisition and preservation of the rights of the Romanian Hungarians. Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén also attended the 25th anniversary event of the DAHR, and praised the work of the Alliance on behalf of the government. For the record, you did the right thing. In his speech, he said: "It is neither politically nor morally possible to weaken the RMDSZ, risking the RMDSZ not to play an important role in the Bucharest Parliament. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. However, I fear that this has not always been the case, because in the past he created the Hungarian Civil Party led by Jenő Szász, and after its ugly failure the Hungarian People's Party of Transylvania, and it had to go on for years and serious years, until this production failed, until the Hungarian government once again considered the united representation of Hungary important. They seem to want to forget Viktor Orbán's previous sentence, according to which the healthy competitive spirit is good for the parties in Transylvania, and with this healthy competitive spirit they created the possibility that in Romania, in practice, several years ago or after the elections, it has been suggested that Hungarians should not be represented in Parliament, because the 5 percent parliamentary threshold of DAHR was also threatened with this divisive policy.In 2012, Foreign Minister János Martonyi said in Bucharest a few weeks before the campaign that Hungary did not want to interfere with the election competition of Hungarian parties in Transylvania. Compared to this, Mr.László Kövér, President of the National Assembly, István Tarlós mayor next to the Hungarian Civil Party, Tamás Deutsch MEP, Zsolt Németh State Secretary at the time of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs campaigned alongside the Hungarian People's Party of Transylvania as a private person. So there are precedents that show that these government intentions, which were united in decent government politicians and, where appropriate, even in former Foreign Minister János Martonyi, are standing up for the greatest and most successful Transylvanian representative of Hungary, the DAHR, are only on paper. I would like to believe that Zsolt Semjén's statement is sincere. I would like to believe that he really supports the RMDSZ, and I would like to believe that the next Congress of DAHR will be a celebration of the Transylvanian Hungarians, supported by the Hungarian Government. Let's hope that's how it's gonna go down. Thank you for listening.
u2015-04-14-201	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Lajos Kepli, Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda, with the title of the Government of Veszprém County. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-04-14-202	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, There have been two interim elections in the county of Veszprém, which has traditionally been called Fidesz County, in recent months. From these, it is clear that the people who live here would change governments. Last few days ago, the voters said no to Fidesz and yes to Jobbik, Lajos Rig. But let us consider what led to the fact that the people in the county had had had enough of the government. In addition to national scandals, such as the Quaestor scandal or the questionable transactions of the Urizing members of the Fidesz government, it is only the tip of the iceberg, as the local problems are much more interested. The government party could not even compensate for the multi-billion campaign promises of multi-annual shortcomings, underdeveloped developments, miscalculations, misguided government measures. Those responsible for the red sludge disaster are still at large today, the compensation for the victims is delayed. Moreover, the government has caused further damage to landowners by arbitrary changes in the farming sector of each area. The Tapolca people have not forgotten the irrational and senseless reorganisation of Tapolca Hospital to the government, the cessation of health care, the removal of surgery and internal medicine. But I am already warning you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, that this will not be any different in the other town of Veszprém County, in Várpalota, where, as a result of unreasonable decisions, surgery, internal medicine and obstetrics were terminated in 2007. Now, according to the locals, you can only die in the city, not be born. And you have not done anything and, on the basis of a former State Secretary's reply, you do not intend to do anything in the future to get these benefits back to the people of Várpalota. The government's support has also wavered in the settlements of Lake Balaton, which seem to be a strong bastion. On the shore of Lake Balaton, Lajos the Jobbikos won in many places, or he lost only a few votes behind his pro-government candidate, which shows that the people who lived here were disappointed in the government. However, this could not be different, since during five years of government, we have not managed to solve such basic things as infrastructure, the development of tourism, the creation of jobs that provide an entire year of employment, the establishment of free-shore promenades, the elimination of illegal rooftops, unauthorised entrances or the efficient solution of Lake Balaton water level and water management. People around Lake Balaton often have the right to feel that the government is deliberately dismantling the region. There are so many shortcomings in the county as well as in the whole country. Veszprém settlements are also affected by unemployment, resulting emigration, low wage levels. Ladies and gentlemen, The Veszprém County interim elections also showed that there is a change of government atmosphere and a change of government force in Hungary, and the latter is the Jobbik Hungary Movement. I can assure you that they are not much better in the other two constituencies of Veszprém County. Jobbik is constantly increasing throughout the county and, of course, throughout the country, which was already observed during the autumn municipal elections, and this Sunday is definitely confirmed. In recent years, as the only better representative of Veszprém County, I have stood up for the interests of the locals, and I have spoken out on the negative decisions and grievances of the people here. In the future, Lajos Rig and my newly elected fellow Member will be two Members of Parliament in Veszprém County, and we will fight shoulder to shoulder for the interests of the locals, together we will represent their will, live in any settlement in the county, as Veszprém County deserves more. Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi applauds.]]
u2015-04-14-203	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will meet next week at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. [[Meeting ended at 9:28 p.m.]]
