u2015-07-06-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 5th Special Meeting of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that you will be able to assist me in the chair of the meeting, notary Lajos Szűcs and Nándor Gúr. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, As President of the Parliament, I was given the sad duty and grace to commemorate György Szabad, former President of the Parliament, who died on July 3, 2015. Free György Széchenyi Prize-winning historian, academic, the life path of the president of the first freely elected Parliament, founded in 1990, is XX. It's a true impression of the history of the century. Arad was born on 4 August 1924 and was attached to Romania by the Trianon peace dictatorship, and eight years later he and his family moved to Budapest. Annex II is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. During World War II, he was called into labor, from which he escaped, and then he was forced to hide under the Arrow rule. In January 1945 he became a member of the Independent Small Farmers' Party, but a year later, after the party winning the 1945 elections had to coalition with the Communist Party under pressure from the Soviets, and then, under the pressure of the Communist Party, had to exclude twenty of its representatives, he left the party in the spring of 1946. He graduated from the Pázmány Péter University in 1950. During the 1956 Revolution, he was elected member of the Philosopher's Choir and historian's revolutionary committee. From 1954 he taught at the Hungarian History Department of ELTE, from which he retired in 1994 as a doctor of history and a member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. As a founding member of the Hungarian Democratic Forum, György Szabad was the dominant figure in the system change. He participated in the Lakitelek meeting, the work of the Opposition Round Table and participated in the trialogue political conciliation negotiations. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. The historian of the 20th century Hungarian bourgeois transformation is XX. He became an active shaper of the Hungarian system change of the century. He actively participated in the establishment of a democratic rule of law institution, and with his vast knowledge he contributed to clarifying the public issues of the peaceful transition to multi-party democracy. On 2 May 1990 György Szabad became Vice-President of the first freely elected Parliament, who was temporarily entrusted with the duties of the Speaker of the House. Three months later, he was elected Speaker of the House. His speeches were made memorable by his brilliant rhetorical turns, and his argument, which was always embedded in a historical background, made clear the understanding of the processes of the present. As Speaker of the House, he used a comprehensive knowledge of the history of Hungarian parliamentarism and helped his fellow Members to navigate the mazes of legislation. After the elections in 1994, he took his place in these benches as a parliamentary representative of the Hungarian Democratic People's Party in opposition, and two years later he joined the newly formed Hungarian Democratic People's Party. In 2001, he retired from active politics. On 3 August 1990, when he elected as Speaker of the House, he said: "I consider myself a Democrat, for no reason or reason, another question. On the one hand, I would like to use my parliamentary position in the confidence of the majority of you to be a good tool. On the other hand, as a Democrat, I want to make the way for myself and our Democratic generation to be better. Thank you for the opportunity. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. As a teacher of historians, György Free, as a politician and as one of the holders of a public office, was able to take advantage of the opportunity to raise the nation from its historic depths, in cooperation with others, and to create a civil democratic framework for future generations. My fellow Members, please, let us pay tribute to Mr Speaker with a one-minute silence. [[The people in this room stand up. The flower and photo placed on the speaker stand reminds me of György Szabad.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, The head of the MSZP's group, Mr József Tóbias, spoke before the agenda: on current affairs. Here you go.
u2015-07-06-1	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of last year, on the initiative of Jobbik, you passed a law on Sunday's lockdown. Even then it was clear and clear... [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: We didn't initiate it!]] You initiated it, and you know it, and it's in your program, so you're free to do it if you've done it. It was evident at that time, at the moment of acceptance, that a significant part of society did not agree that such a decision affecting their lives, their everyday lives, had been adopted in Parliament without consulting their opinion. Today, 73 percent of society doesn't like being closed on Sunday. Even your voters wouldn't want to keep it closed on Sunday under such a law. It is not good for the employee, it is not good for the citizen and it is not good for the traders, respect for the exception, who can solve with a series of tricky legislative tricks that they are turning themselves into markets and thus keep them open on Sunday. Yesterday Ilona Pálffy, head of the National Election Office, decided: the information and documents published on the Election Committee's website are actually only for information. Therefore, I would like to say to you that if any communications from the National Election Office and the Election Committee that you publish on your website are purely informative, I would like to ask you a little bitterly whether the results of the 2014 parliamentary, municipal and European elections should be regarded as what. 'Cause what happened was the Curia made a decision. Following the Curia's decision, a copy of the National Election Committee's website was published at 4:05 p.m., which made it possible, after a six-month struggle, to take the initiative of civil society organisations to end the closure on Sunday. Today, the head of the National Election Office has decided that everything he has published does not qualify as credible information. Ladies and gentlemen, You're cheating. You will allow your leaders, who will be entrusted with this, to obstruct citizens' initiatives by administrative means, whether it is the law on the referendum procedure or the European Citizens' Initiative, to prevent society from expressing its voice and opinion on this law. It's clear that you don't like the closing hours on Sunday, and neither do your voters. They will do everything in their power, be it the electoral law, be it the law on the referendum initiative, that if the law does not allow it, but they will make an administrative error in the procedure, precisely so that they do not have to face reality. In each case, you have chosen this administrative instrument in the last six months, referring to dates, creating formal and formal deficiencies. This would have been the first time we had to look at it in substance and substance. [[9.30]] And yes, my fellow Members, the initiators, the representatives of the Hungarian Socialist Party, acted exactly in the spirit of the law when the paper on the referendum initiative was submitted to the Election Office. There is no place for them to back off, no administrative tricks to prevent what is expressed by the majority of society. It is not worth waiting for 2018, not for traders, not for citizens, not for trade workers. Give back to the people what they deserve, which is why you may be a Member, and you may know a majority today. Leave this question to the voter to decide. Make the way for the people to decide on Sunday's lockdown. Thank you very much.
u2015-07-06-2	On behalf of the government, Secretary of State L. Simon László will answer. I give you the floor.
u2015-07-06-3	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, You must have missed the fact that the problem of Sunday's rest day in the Hungarian Parliament was raised by the Christian Democratic People's Party. [[Interview from Jobbik: Thank you! The Foreman of Novak intervenes.]] Fidesz joined the proposal of the Christian Democratic People's Party, of course, because we agree that Hungarian people should be given a day of rest, dealing with themselves and their families. [[József Tobias: This should be their decision!]] And when they try to clean up their own lives after five or six hard working days in such a way that they can start again on Monday, rested, spiritually refreshed, from their families and children to a hard, hard week. The rhetoric that you are using is that you can't talk about anything but keeping us closed on Sunday, it is a good sign of our differences in values, because we are talking about Sunday's rest day, honourable Member. Of course, you're slipping here, too. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: The CBA...]] He wants to wash Jobbik, this extreme political power with the ruling parties. In fact, the governing parties have done everything they can to help [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: It's an insult to us that you and the Fides are going to smack me!]] to give every Hungarian person the opportunity to relax on Sunday, to deal with themselves on Sunday. Honourable Congressman, In addition, behind all this, as I have already indicated, there is a serious value problem: you are talking about closing on Sunday, we are talking about Sunday's rest day. You are talking about closing on Sunday because you are actually looking at the interests of multinational commercial companies operating in Hungary, and we are looking at the interests of Hungarian workers. When you say to give back to the people the opportunity to buy on Sunday [[József Tobias: The referendum!]] Then, honourable Member, all you talk about is giving back the opportunity to people not to rest on Sunday but to spend their money in supermarkets. Let's see. If what you're always telling us here is true, that tens of thousands of children are starving, that there are four million poor people in this country, then why do you demand to buy on Sunday? [[Crying from the opposition. Zoltán Pride: You're not normal! What does that have to do with anything? The president's ringing the bell.]] Do you not feel some contradiction, honourable Member, between the demand for four million poor countries and Sunday's purchase? Don't you think it's good for workers to keep the supermarkets closed on Sunday? And we say it's good for people to be concerned about themselves, and it's good for people to rest. But today's speech also has a much rougher procession, because we have fought this debate on a number of occasions, and whatever you come with, people are on our side, and people are happy to have the opportunity to rest. At the end of the year, you will see that the numbers of Hungarian commerce will not deteriorate because of this, and you will also see that the money that people do not spend in multinational stores is spent in Hungarian-owned retail stores and convenience stores. If you go to those resorts where the large multi-stores are not open today, you will see that the resters there, the holidaymakers in the local buffets, in convenience stores and on the market, honourable Member. [[Intercoms from the opposition. Zoltán Pride: CBA! The president's ringing the bell.]] So this is in the interests of small and medium-sized Hungarian businesses, because we are on their side against you. But the worst thing about your speech today was that you're trying to attack the National Election Office through the government. Honourable Congressman, This is once again the harsh attack on the rule of law and democratic institutions on your part. You assume, assume, and even openly say, that the National Election Committee is making decisions under political pressure. In fact, it is the case, honourable Member, that you must note that there have been several other referendum initiatives on this issue, and you must note that the rules of procedure must be respected by you too, honourable Member, the legislation must be respected by you, and that if you are taking a referendum initiative either by you or by organisations close to you, then this must be done in a way that complies with the legislation in all respects. We would like to take note of this and ask you to do your job in line with the rule of law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-4	Member of the LMP, Mrs Bernadett Szél, applied for a pre-meeting speech: Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-07-06-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, You know, the Hungarian people expect very simple things from the country's elected leadership, especially that they are trying to improve the lives of Hungarian people compared to their strength. You have said that the Hungarians have respect! In comparison, we have been allowed to become the fifth worst wage country in the Union, where one of the ministers is essentially campaigning that, if it is up to you, it will remain so for another 20 years. I quote János Lázár: We cannot compete with Western European wages in the next 20 years. So whoever votes for Fidesz votes that we will be poor for 20 years, we can work for small money or go abroad, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said, just send a lot of money home. On the other hand, the LMP's perception is the way I'm standing in front of you. We see that strong Hungary can only be built by people working for good wages; this is the responsible approach, this is the concept that will make this country strong. We choose man, knowledge and education, and you tell us to stay broke for 20 years. And don't come at me with the IMF. We know that we know that it would take zero forints of credit to make wage arrangements in this country. After the past five years, you simply do not have the moral basis to tell the Hungarian people what this country can and cannot do. You know, fellow Members, we should not be dreaming about moving to the Castle and filling the pockets of selected villains with public money, but doing a wage increase in this country. Here is the 2016 budget, we see that about HUF 500 billion is thrown out of the window, which would have been enough to settle wages in the public sector in full. Because let us see, fellow Members, where the house is burning in this country. [[Dr. Bernadett Szél, Erzsébet Schmuck, Dr. András Schiffer and R. Benedek Sallai raise a poster. Text on the poster of Dr. Bernadett Szél:. Hundreds of thousands who are forced to emigrate on the poster of Erzsébet Schmuck, the text on the poster of the poster of Dr. András Schiffer, the text on the poster of the poster of the poster of the poster of the poster of the poster of the poster of R. Benedek Sallai on the poster of social and health workers, daycare workers, nurses, doctors.]] There's the medical staff... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]]
u2015-07-06-6	Congresswoman and Congressman, I need you to move those papers of arrogance. Congresswoman, I take the floor from you. Have a seat. [[Congressmen are putting up posters. Applause.]]
u2015-07-06-7	[[Without microphone:]] Who will heal the sick Hungarian people if they leave this country...
u2015-07-06-8	Congresswoman, I've cut you off. Have a seat. [[9.40]] Mr Péter Harrach, Head of the KDNP, also applied for a pre-meeting address on the events of the last session. Here you go.
u2015-07-06-9	Mr President, Dear House, The events of the past six months outside Parliament and Parliament - of course, I am not referring to the presentation of the events in Parliament just now, but to the measures that were important. Allow me to highlight one or two aspects, since these cannot be summarised in five minutes. At first, perhaps what has happened in the interests of the social groups that need help. I could mention the compensation of the victims of the broker scandal, the elimination of the maladministration of the bailiffs, or the submission of a law on family bankruptcy. And speaking of the removal or reduction of Sunday's labour force, I, as opposed to the speaker, can certainly see the interest of workers in this. These measures have been taken over the past six months for the benefit of social groups that need help. There were decisions that had a background to the economy. I could mention the expansion of the public energy service company, which was in fact half the same as the former, since it is the result of the continuation of the reduction of the rent, but also the economic policy of patriotism. Once again, it is an economic issue to transform vocational training. I feel that this was an important decision during this period. But perhaps even more important in terms of country image and national cooperation, there are two issues. One is the intention of organising the 2024 Olympics, in which not only sports and sportsmen's aspects appear, not only the economic aspect, but primarily the national interest, as it can be achieved as a result of a cooperation that is a test of strength and a successful settlement increases the authority of Hungary. But perhaps the most important challenge, the biggest challenge of the century, is the question of migration, which does not depend on our intentions, but is a phenomenon, but it is up to us to deal with it. This migration was expected, as demographic developments in China and India seem to be slowing down and even halting, but in the near future it will increase strongly - which has already started - the strong growth of the population of Western Islamic states and the growth of the population of Africa. Meanwhile, Europe's population is falling and this vacuum is expected to be filled. But when this migration started, we couldn't tell. It had to be caused by something like an avalanche can be launched by a snowball. Maybe I'm not far from reality if I say that in some cases the interference of the Western states was this snowball, the intervention that changed local relations. Tribal wars, chaotic conditions have been created, and people are fleeing it. For us, of course, the question is how to deal with this problem. We have a double responsibility, and this must always be said: on the one hand, the obligation to help people in distress - that is what church leaders who are persecuted and who are starving need help; on the other hand, this concerns the individual, the preservation of human dignity - but we also have another responsibility, the responsibility for communities, and this clearly means the protection of Europe's national communities, because it is not multicultural societies, but the constrainments of monocultures in Europe. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-10	On behalf of the government, Mr L. Simon László State Secretary will once again respond. Here you go. [[L. Simon László: I am not answering, but the Secretary of State of Rétvári.]] I was wrong. Bence Rétvári responds. I'm gonna ask the government members to help me with my work by telling me who wants to speak through the buttons, because then I don't have to read body language, or by mistake who wants to answer. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-07-06-11	We're sorry. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, In recent years, the government has had the opportunity to pay more attention to those who are most in difficulty and to pursue a policy that improves the situation of people in Hungary, who are often in difficulty, seeking work. He could do this because, in previous years, the money that emigrated from the country and increased profits of foreign companies remained in Hungary, and he could do so because he represents the Hungarian national interest in all matters, whether it is a question of social policy or international migration, he is trying everywhere to put the interests of Hungarian people above the interests of other people and other companies. That is why we can say that, compared to two years ago, there are now 241 thousand fewer people who would somehow be at risk of deprivation or social exclusion. This comes from many smaller numbers, many components, as 130,000 people are now short of housing payments compared to a two-year-old number, and the number of people who do not have a car for financial reasons has decreased by 70,000, while the proportion of cars placed on the market has increased by 20.3 percent. The number of people who cannot afford a one-week holiday a year has fallen to a very large extent by 700,000 people, so 700,000 more people can go on vacation. This is obviously part of the fact that many people in the Erzsébet programme are able to go on a preferential holiday, whether it be large families, people with disabilities or teachers. There are many beneficiaries of this group. So it's possible that 700,000 more people can afford a vacation. The number of those - also an important poverty indicator - who cannot afford a meat meal every two days has decreased by 580,000, so now there are 580,000, nearly 600 thousand more people who can afford to eat meat every two days. But the lack of proper heating of the apartment is also a problem for 250,000 people less, so a quarter of a million more people can solve their heating well. This is obviously linked to the fact that the reduction of the rent has resulted in a reduction of HUF 30 billion in the family's outflow due to public utility bills, so families now owe 30 billion less to utility operators than they did a few years ago. The positive impact of the social and economic measures of the past period is also seen in the fact that the news is now about a real estate boom, that if someone offers a property for sale in Budapest or on the shore of Lake Balaton, they will almost rush it in seconds, the first bidders will report in minutes and take it away. The acceleration and revival of the real estate market is obviously the result of good economic policy and social policy decisions over the past period. This will be opened to a wider circle by the family's home-building discount, which will enter into force from 1 July; the possibility of buying a children's room, your own new family house, your own apartment will obviously be further guided in a positive direction. However, it is also important to increase the number of workers by 445,000. This also helps one to be able to afford a civil way of life, making a living on a work income. It is also important, Mr President, that the amendment concerning implementations, which aims to improve the professionalism and the legality of enforcement procedures, is also mentioned. However, it is important to note that the number of enforcement procedures has decreased by 29 thousand, which could be the result of the fact that the various debts of citizens have also decreased. [[9.50]] The increase in consumption rate has not changed, and now, for perhaps a year and a half or two, retail consumption has been growing from month to month. This also created the opportunity to make an important social decision at the same time as the introduction of a free Sunday, the ban on working on Sundays, and to ensure the growth of trade flows at the same time. In this, I think that everyone should ask, first of all, whether you would like your own wife, your own husband, to work on Sunday. And if you don't want to do that, think of your husband and his wife and give them a free Sunday. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-07-06-12	I'm gonna take it from beyond the fence? With this title, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát will be speaking on behalf of Jobbik before the agenda. Here you go.
u2015-07-06-13	Mr President, Dear House, Yesterday on Samson Road in Debrecen, a crowd of more than 500 people gathered, and the purpose of this demonstration was clearly to respond to a series of crimes committed by armed criminals a few days ago. After all, this armed horde attacked motorists, attacked innocent Hungarian citizens without being able to do so. And at the level of the numbers, according to our own information, we're at a point where, in the lower voice, every perpetrator is on the loose after eight of the 150 migrants leaving the hostel in Debrecen. So we do not know what else needs to happen in Hungary in order to have any consequences for the actions committed at the expense of the civilian population living there. We also see that, as this demonstration took place, there was apparently order in Debrecen. But as soon as it was finished, a bus full of migrants arrived, and with a further 70 of them loaded with goods, a hostel whose overload is amazing, where people should not come, but people should leave. After all, the Prime Minister himself made a promise to close the refugee shelter in Debrecen. In connection with this promise, we do not even know when they intend to make the closure, and if the civilian population were to be asked in the area, they would certainly say in a ratio of over 90 percent that this step must be taken immediately. [[A statement from the opposition: That's right!]] We also see that while L. Simon László talks about extremists in Parliament, yes, there are such things. There is an extreme Balliberal side that would incredibly recommend a social housing for migrants, giving them long-term voting rights. And parts of it are protesting because the TV room in Debrecen is supposed to be uncomfortable at the refugee shelter. Compared to this, we know the public status of hospitals, and we also know that instead of an independent border guard in the border zone, the field guards, the field guards in the dughalm are carrying out the heroic task with Mayor László Toroczkai, which now makes them the fence. That is why we propose that these field guards, who make the lives of hundreds of Hungarians easier or even save their lives on a daily basis, should be given a state medal by preventing burglaries and classified crimes. I mean, these people deserve to do a lot, I'll add, in a job they don't necessarily have to do in a normal country. We have to say, without an independent border guard, the fence can only bring partial solutions. But in the same way, the mayor of Bicske, rightly, understands that closed hostels are needed, that institutions should be closed where uncontrollable elements can in and out of contact with the civilian population. In 2013, my fellow Member Gergely Kulcsár gave the first warning that the number of violations and crimes is multiplying at the expense of the civilian population, and it must be seen that the government has not moved since then. So, while the extreme Balliberal side is turning against Hungarian national interests, the government has made it possible to escalate a situation with its additional actions and irresponsible behaviour that constantly harms the objective security and subjective sense of security of Hungarian people. So we proposed that we set up a five-party professional conciliation forum, which could meet with the delegates of all parties on a weekly basis, and could also give a meaningful, professional and political reaction to the latest developments. This is not a substitute for government action, so make no mistake. But the fact that you don't communicate on these issues doesn't mean you can hear the distress signals from many years ago, at least it's a category of irresponsibleness. For those Balliberians who are now placing empty shoes in front of the refugee shelter in Debrecen or sending out social housing, there is one thing we can suggest. Next time, leave your address and house keys, take a migrant family for a week, and then talk about ways to bridge peaceful coexistence and cultural gaps. After all, it is against the Hungarian national interest who formulates similar ideas and amazing ideas. And we must also say that the government's series of action would be viable if it could put an independent border guard next to the plan to build a fence if it immediately closed these open refugee hostels and moved them out of populated areas in the long term. And there's more to the government than that. With regard to so-called deportations, we would like you to make it clear here that you are willing to accept, integrate, and relocate one or two or twelve repatriated migrants. Because if you go this way, the Jobbik won't be able to support you under any circumstances. So make your position clear. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] otherwise we will lose the image that Hungary still has today! Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-06-14	I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Secretary of State. [[For signal:]] Sorry, Minister Peter Szijjártó.
u2015-07-06-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, Allow me to inform you and the Parliament's plenary session of the latest data on the evolution of the number of illegal border crossings. Until last night, 71,871 illegal border crossings were registered this year, 71,287 of which occurred on the border between Hungary and Serbia. These two figures clearly show the gravity of the situation and reiterate the fact that Hungary has the greatest pressure on illegal immigration in the European Union. I would also like to add to this, Mr Vice-President of the Group, that Hungary can easily be placed in a pliers by adding the pressure of illegal immigration pressure from the South to return from the West, from the Northwest. At present, a total of 11 EU Member States have informed our Immigration and Nationality Office of their intention to return 15 600 illegal immigrants to Hungary. However, we strongly contest this intention, given that illegal immigrants can be sent back to the country under EU regulations and that the country that proved to be the first entry point in the EU Member States must be re-accepted. Well, since at least as many people are now arriving in the European Union on the Balkan immigration route as on the Mediterranean immigration route, it is clear that those who come here must come through at least one EU Member State before they reach Hungary. To do so, we do not even need to have complete geographical knowledge so that we can accept this claim as a consensus. It is therefore clear that although we registered these illegal immigrants in Hungary for the first time, in accordance with EU standards, these people must have been in the vast majority of Greece or Bulgaria before they arrived in Hungary. I would once again like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that we consider a clear distinction between political refugees and illegal economic immigrants more important than ever. And I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, by submitting asylum applications for illegal economic immigrants, they are undermining precisely the credibility of this institution. I would also like to inform you that for the Hungarian budget this year, at least HUF 15 billion in extra expenditure is involved in illegal immigration. Last week, the European Commissioner for Migration, who provided Hungary with some funding support from the European Commission, was here. In addition, the decision was taken at the last European Council to set up so-called hotspots. I would like to underline here at the plenary session of the Parliament that there will certainly not be such a hotspot in Hungary, because the decision of the European Council is clear: they must be established outside the European Union, perhaps in Greece or Italy, but you can be quite sure that the Hungarian Government will never agree to an intention to install such a hotspot on the territory of Hungary. [[10.00]] On the other hand, I would like to draw the Member's attention to the fact that an agreement has been reached on the organisation of a Balkans conference, which will take place in Budapest, in consultation with the Commissioner for Migration, in September, where we will also convene Foreign Affairs and Home Affairs Ministers of the countries who are interested in the Balkan immigration route and in the source countries and issuing countries. We believe that such a conference or its outcome can reduce the pressure on Hungary from the direction of the Balkan immigration route. In order to make the conference as effective as possible and to receive the most support from the European Union in order to reduce this immigration pressure, I will be negotiating tomorrow with the Luxembourg Foreign Minister, who has given the Presidency. Honourable Congressman, I would like to emphasise once again that the Government of Hungary is doing everything in its power to reduce immigration pressure in Hungary, so that the resulting security and internal security issues [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] This can also be achieved by reducing the pressure and by building a temporary safety barrier. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-07-06-16	The last of the speeches before today's agenda will be Mr Antal Rogán, the leader of the Fidesz Group: on current issues. Here you go.
u2015-07-06-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the Hungarian Parliament will decide on the establishment of a security border closure, giving the government the necessary legal authority to do so. I would like to pay tribute to all my fellow Members to the fact that the Fidesz parliamentary group here in Parliament today, in the debate and, as a matter of fact, in the vote, will take the position that it is absolutely clear to us that economic immigrants should not be admitted, they should not be allowed into Hungary, but must be stopped at the borders of Hungary and thus Europe. Therefore, we believe that there is no other good solution to this issue but to set up a safety barrier. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, only this weekend, the border guards stopped 2300 illegal immigrants at the Serbian-Hungarian border. Ladies and gentlemen, This can't continue. This has to end completely clearly. And I would like to make it clear here that the Fidesz Group here in Parliament will not support any solution aimed at allowing as many immigrants as possible to be accepted in Hungary, we will not support proposals that are clearly pro-immigration, which serve the purpose of spending more money on asylum institutions. No, ladies and gentlemen, the task is to stop economic immigrants at the borders of Hungary. We will therefore, of course, not support the proposals of the MSZP, which are clearly pro-immigration. [[Towards the benches of Jobbik:]] And I see my better colleagues nodding. All I would add to them is that, if they are so opposed to immigration, I would like to ask them why the urgency of the bill setting up a security border closure was not supported in Parliament on Friday. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches, among them: Yes!]] Because I see there's some contradiction between your words and your actions, by the way. [[Noise and interruptions from the benches of Fidesz: That's right.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, one of Europe's most important issues today is economic immigration and stopping it, but we must add that there have been other important events in Europe this weekend. Think of the Greek referendum, fellow Members. I must say to you, the Greeks, of course, as it may not have surprised anyone in Europe, have strongly rejected the restrictions, rejected IMF crisis management; but we must add, ladies and gentlemen, that, if we look at the situation in Greece now, such a referendum was finally held in Hungary in April 2010, fellow Members. [[Moore in the opposition benches. A voice from the benches of Fidesz: That's right.]] When, by the way, the Bajnai government, the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government, the parliamentary majority behind them, the IMF crisis management and austerity were equally rejected by the Hungarians, and those who, if possible, would have pushed Hungary into a deeper position than in Greece. And, fellow Members, it is worth seeing the last five years. Greece has done what the IMF has asked, along with other European countries. And, fellow Members, they are not out of trouble. In contrast, Hungarian reforms work. Ladies and gentlemen, If we look at the past five years, we see that as a result of the Hungarian reforms, the Hungarian economy produces one of the best growth figures in Europe. In 2014, the Hungarian economy grew by 3.6 percent, and in the first quarter of 2015 the Hungarian economy grew by 2 times the European average. In more than 20 years, so many people have not worked in Hungary. 4.1 million people, 4.1 million people employed, honourable Members, and let us add that it is perhaps precisely because the Hungarian reforms work, because we are able and determined to share the burden and tax the banks and multinational companies, and we have been able to get there, my fellow Members, that during the last five years, we have had a reduction in the rent, a successful reduction in the rent; we have been able to achieve a family tax reduction, and over 900 thousand parents can use it as a support for raising children. We have reached the point, ladies and gentlemen, that next year we will be able to reduce personal income tax again, so that in Hungary in recent years, unlike the European average, the minimum wage has not fallen, but has increased by nearly 43 percent, and it looks like it can grow again next year. In 50 years, inflation has not been this low, and family home support has been back in place since 1 July this year. Ladies and gentlemen, These are all bright proof that the work we have done in the last five years has led to the results that Hungarian reforms are working. Now all we have to do, my fellow Members, is to ensure that this is not ruined. Don't let those who want to pursue IMF policy again, the Hungarian left in a specific way [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] ; and do not be destroyed by those who are irresponsible, for example, in the matter of asylum. No, ladies and gentlemen, we need to continue these reforms and these solutions. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-07-06-18	On behalf of the government, Mr.Péter Szijjártó, Minister, once again.
u2015-07-06-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, A referendum was held in Greece at the end of the week. According to the data currently available, they registered about 62.5 percent participation, above the validity threshold, and I inform the Honourable Parliament that 61.3 percent of voters rejected the question on the basis of an ambassadorial report received after 96 percent processing and 38.7 percent supported the question. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the German Chancellor and the French President are scheduled to meet in Paris tonight. The President of the European Council has scheduled an extraordinary euro summit for tomorrow evening. Ladies and gentlemen, You can obviously see the declarations that have been made all over Europe. I wouldn't want to quote those here. Perhaps I would like to reflect on the words of Mr. Group Leader regarding the 2010 declaration of people's will in Hungary. Indeed, if we speak clearly, we know that Hungary was in a very precarious economic situation in 2010. In 2010, the IMF programme clearly set out a path for Hungary, which was rejected by the government on the basis of the electoral mandate and a completely different economic policy path. The results of these are now clear: 16 months in Hungary is over 4 million people who have jobs and pay taxes. 4.1 million people are more than double the number of taxpayers that we could register in 2010. Of course, you can't sit back satisfied. Let us set ourselves the goal of achieving the level of the Czech economy with a comparable dimension and comparable to us in this respect, i.e. to work and pay taxes in Hungary for 5 million people. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian economy is an open economy, so the performance of the foreign economy is clearly fundamental to the performance of the national economy. This is why last year's data on investments in Hungary is important, as this clearly shows the confidence in the country and its economy in addition to the number itself. [[10.10]] Last year there was 5216 billion HUF investment in the Hungarian economy, 5216 billion HUF, which means that in one year the volume of investments in Hungary increased by 14 percent, and in the last 17 years there has not been such an increase in investment in Hungary at the same time in one year. In addition, export performance has been on a sustained growth path, supporting a sustainable growth path for economic growth in the long term. In the first four months of this year, we were able to register an 8 percent increase in exports, and the significance of which is particularly highlighted by the fact that the war in our neighbourhood, as well as the Russian measures adopted in response to it, severely restricts our Eastern exports. Ladies and gentlemen, We also have to say that the Hungarian model really works, the Hungarian reforms really work, given that we have managed to overcome a very old economic dogma over the last five years. This very old economic dogma said that it was impossible, or at least very difficult, to produce economic growth and create new jobs at the same time, and to pursue a highly disciplined fiscal policy at the same time. Hungary, the Hungarian reforms and the Hungarian model have proven that it is possible to produce economic growth at the same time, to create a large number of new jobs at the same time, while reducing public debt and reducing the budget deficit to a sustainablely low level. Honourable Congressman, In 2010 the Hungarian economy was shaky, but by 2015 we became one of the best economies in Europe. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and in the future, the government will continue to take measures that have led to this extremely favourable situation. Thank you for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-20	Dear House, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Speaking after today's agenda, the following representatives came forward: László Varju, independent; Mónika Bartos, Fidesz; István Ikotity, LMP; Bernadett Szél, LMP; R. Benedek Sallai, LMP; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz; Tibor Bana, Jobbik; Előd Novák, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik; Gergely Kulcsár, Jobbik. Dear Parliament, I remind you that the government is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law 35. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Act, the Parliament has initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting to this day, with a view to putting on the agenda the proposals contained in the annex to the letter. The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Dear House, We are now deciding on proposals to amend the agenda. The MSZP initiated the T/5324 amending Act C of 2012 on Criminal Code in order to reduce human trafficking. 3) and T/5325 amending Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 Following a general debate on the series of proposals, if there is no proposal to amend them by the beginning of the debate, the Parliament should decide today on the adoption of the legislative proposals. At the same time, the Fidesz Group suggested that the general debate on these two legislative proposals should not be on the agenda of the meeting. First we decide on Fidesz's proposals, and we will vote on the proposals of the MSZP only if the Parliament rejects the proposals of the Fidesz. We will decide separately on the two proposals. Dear Parliament, The Fidesz Group suggested that T/5324 amending Act C of 2012 on Criminal Code in order to reduce human trafficking At today's extraordinary meeting, the general debate on this proposal should not take place. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. The Fidesz Group has proposed that T/5325 amending Act C of 2014 on Hungary's central budget for 2015 At today's extraordinary meeting, the general debate on this proposal should not take place. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that the Parliament has adopted the proposals of Fidesz in the previous proceedings, we cannot decide on the two proposals of the MSZP to amend the agenda. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the recommendation on the agenda with the amendments adopted above. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. We will now continue our work by negotiating proposals. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the establishment of a temporary security border closure and the amendment of migration-related laws will follow in an exceptional procedure. T/5416. The Commission's non-autonomous texts are available on the Parliament's IT network. Dear Parliament, [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] I would ask my fellow Members, who are not interested in the subject, to leave the Chamber as quietly as possible and as quickly as possible. [[It's constant noise. Several congressmen are talking standing up.]] To express farewells and good wishes, the corridor is also at the disposal of the Members. I'd also like the Minister to take a seat. Dear Parliament, In the debate, I give the floor to Mr Károly Kontra, Minister of State of the Ministry of the Interior, the author of the bill.
u2015-07-06-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, At the borders of Europe, the world is raging, civil wars are raging, a multitude of acts of terrorism are being committed, modern-day migration has begun, which has reached Europe and reached Hungary. In this historical situation, we need to join forces, we need Hungary to rise above the political interests of the day, and so does the 16th century. It has done so many times since the first century, unite and defend its own borders and thus protect Europe. Hungary must stand up for its own interests. With the border closure, we will protect Hungary and protect the countries of the European Union. The next few years will not be easy because of migration, but we can see the tasks, they must be carried out, not afraid of the future. Hungary must stand firm for its own interests, because our situation is different from that of everyone else. We are not a front country, yet Hungary is in a more difficult position than they are, because the Greeks do not grasp economic immigrants at their borders, and they are moving to Hungary. Our country will continue to fulfil its international obligations and provide for refugees in the current situation. However, many economic migrants take advantage of the situation and attempt to enter the EU illegally through Hungary. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] At last week's EU summit, it was decided that Hungary, in addition to Bulgaria, would be subject to a separate assessment in the case of immigration. The Hungarian Government took the view in Brussels that the rules governing the distribution of immigrants, the quotas for Hungary, do not apply, we insist on voluntary decisions made in their own right, because we are already more burdened than others. In the 28 Member States, we are among the 5 most difficult countries; if we look at the number of asylum seekers in terms of population or GDP data, Hungary is the country where most refugees come in. At last, the EU saw this, so at the last two-day summit in Brussels, decisions were made on migration that meet the interests of Hungary and the Hungarian people. For example, an agreement was reached on the need to separate refugees and economic migrants in need of help, which we have already drawn attention to. It was also agreed that such separation should, if possible, take place outside the borders of the Union. The situation requires an urgent solution and immediate and decisive action by all of us. In support of the gravity of the case, allow me to highlight some data. [[10.20]] In 2015, Hungary's history is under the greatest migratory pressure, with a significant increase in the number of illegal border crossings and, in this context, the number of asylum seekers requiring urgent action. This year, the number of banned border crossings exceeds 70,000, namely 71,871, to date, almost 100 percent of these people arrive at the Hungarian-Serbian border, with a specific number exceeding 71,200. While the number of asylum seekers in the European Union increased by 30 percent in 2013, the rate of growth in Hungary was 800 percent. In 2012, only 2157, 18 900 asylum applications were submitted in 2013, and in 2014 42 777 asylum seekers were registered by the asylum authority. The increase in the number of applications continued this year, since 69,822 asylum applications have been lodged in the first half of the year. Dear Parliament, The bill before you provides for the necessary legislative amendments to combat illegal immigration effectively. The aim of the proposal is twofold: on the one hand, to identify as soon as possible persons who are truly eligible for international protection and, on the other hand, to facilitate the early expulsion from the country of typically economic migrants who, by circumventing the legislation so far, are only applying for asylum in order to move illegally to other countries of the Union in order to make a better living. These two objectives will allow rapid and effective implementation of asylum procedures. The lack of stricter rules also poses a security risk in the spread of terrorist threats. Given that Hungary is still primarily a transit country, there is therefore a particular interest in ensuring that the security controls of asylum seekers can be fully implemented. The submitted bill proposes to amend the following laws: the 2007 LXXX on asylum. Act II on the entry and residence of third-country nationals of 2007 Act IV of 1991 on the promotion of employment and the care of the unemployed Act LXXXIX of 2007 on the state border. Law. The most important changes in the asylum procedure are as follows. The proposal before you limits the right to remain in the area of repeated asylum seekers. In practice, this means that the applicant does not automatically enjoy the right to remain on the territory of Hungary when submitting a re-application. Therefore, by resubmitting the asylum application, it cannot prevent its expulsion from the country or its implementation. Dear Parliament, The bill combines the current two-stage procedure, thus simplifying the procedure, shortening the duration of the procedure and reducing the costs incurred in the application procedure. According to the amendment of the law, the asylum procedure lasts until the decision on the application can be enforced. Thus, the person with the right to remain in the area and the right to be recognised may remain in asylum detention until the end of the legal proceedings. The proposal presents a new element of national security risk as a reason for non-refugee recognition. The restrictions concern persons whose international protection may jeopardise national security. The bill ensures speeding up and simplifying the procedure by hearing the applicant by a court at the place of detention. This also reduces the costs of public authorities. The proposal to amend the law on the promotion of employment and the provision of benefits to the unemployed provides an opportunity for a person seeking asylum, protection, asylum and a third-country national living in a designated place of residence at the decision of the foreign police authority to work in the context of a public employment relationship. This amendment provides an opportunity to facilitate the subsequent integration of genuine refugees into society, and to enable the residents of reception centres to contribute useful, value-creating work to the cost of their stay here. Dear Parliament, In order to stop a significant number of illegal border crossings arriving at the southern green border, the government ordered the establishment of a temporary border safety lock for border surveillance purposes of a height of approximately 175 km in the Hungarian-Serbian border section. Every country has a duty to protect its own borders, including Hungary. This is not only our obligation to Hungarian people, but also to the entire European Union, because we are one of the external borders of the Schengen area. In this way, while protecting Hungary, we also protect the European Union, which is the 16th anniversary of Hungarian history. It hasn't been unprecedented since the first century. It is necessary to amend the Law on State Borders in order to establish the legal basis for this decision. According to the amendment, the Hungarian State has the right of public use within 10 metres of the border at the Schengen external borders. On this basis, national defence, national security and law enforcement bodies are entitled to establish and operate specific types of structures. In recent years, Hungary has faced an enormous amount of illegal migration and asylum pressures, but due to the EU and Schengen membership of Hungary, Hungary must not only guarantee its own security, but also the security of the other Member States participating in the Schengen area. Hungary is no longer taking on the burden of living immigrants, we need to create new rules that tighten the procedure, shorten the procedure to ensure effective closure of cases. If Hungary can take a strong stand against the mass emergence of living immigrants, it will also become clear in the Balkans that it is illegal to come to Hungary. Hungary must stand up for its own interests, because our situation is different from that of everyone else, we are not a front country, yet Hungary is in a more difficult position than the front countries. We continue to say that everyone must protect their own borders, so the government supports any proposal that will help solve this serious problem. The government is committed to protecting Hungary and the Hungarian people against immigration pressure. Dear Parliament, We are at a historic moment, we can act in the interests of the Hungarian people, Hungary. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the parliamentary factions, to support the proposed bill for the safety of the Hungarian people and Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-22	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee and the formulated minority opinion will now be presented. They have a total of 15 minutes. First, I give the floor to Congressman László Kucsák, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee, within a timeframe of up to eight minutes.
u2015-07-06-23	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 3 July 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed, within the framework of an exceptional procedure, the T/5416 on the establishment of a temporary security border closure and the amendment of migration-related laws. Bill No. 1. During the committee meeting, the members discussed Lajos Kósa's amendment, which included codification and language positioning. The Commission adopted this proposal with 24 votes in favour, 6 votes against and 1 abstention. The bill was submitted by the Government in order to deal with exceptional immigration pressure, as the Government had previously called on the Minister of the Interior to present amendments to the legislation needed to combat illegal immigration in the light of the outcome of the national consultation on immigration and terrorism currently under way. There has been a significant increase in illegal migration and, in this context, the number of asylum seekers, which exceeded last year's total number of applicants in the first five months. We've heard that according to today's condition, it's over 70,000. The aim of illegally arriving in Hungary is, in particular, to get to the western Member States of the European Union as soon as possible by crossing the country. Typically, third-country nationals who arrived illegally in Hungary went to one of the Western European states shortly before the end of the procedure. The radical increase in the number of asylum seekers compared to last year also called for other emergency measures to be taken, thus strengthening the control of the Schengen external border and increasing the number of foreign police shelters. [[10.30]] In view of this, it is necessary to amend the current legislative environment in order to identify those with established international protection needs as quickly and effectively as possible and to expel typically economic migrants without such protection from the territory of the country as soon as possible. The lack of strict rules also poses a security risk to the spread of terrorist threats, especially given that Hungary is still primarily a transit country, and therefore there is a particular interest in ensuring that the security controls of asylum seekers can be fully implemented. The aim of the proposal is to limit the right to remain in the territory of repeated asylum seekers, which in practice means that, when re-application is made, the applicant does not automatically enjoy the right to remain in Hungary to an unlimited extent. In view of this, the Committee adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report by 24 votes in favour and 6 votes against. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-24	Thank you, Congressman. To present the minority opinion, I would like to give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó in a time frame of no more than seven minutes.
u2015-07-06-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the MSZP, we made it clear at the meeting of the Legislative Committee that this proposal is all about the Government's inability and does not want to protect Hungarian people, Hungary and the southern border of the European Union. The fact that this proposal came to the Parliament's table after doing nothing for six months by having to discuss the amendments in an exceptional procedure on Friday afternoon, with the general debate taking place on Monday, says a lot about this proposal and about you. But most of it, I think, is said by the amendment made by our fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa, which has rewritten 28 paragraphs from the 55 paragraphs tabled, and has classified for 13 pages the amendments to the twenty-page bill that have, by the way, corrected language and legislative errors in the bill submitted by the government, the Minister of the Interior, by the apparatus of the state administration. It is clear from this that you have done nothing for six months, you have only communicated for six months, you have allowed this situation to escalate for six months, and you are still unable to lead this country, to protect Hungarian people and, for example, to submit a bill without error. However, in the proposal that we have just tabled, there is a part that is particularly frightening and completely contrary to what the government has communicated so far. According to this proposal, asylum seekers will not only be accommodated in reception centres, accommodations, but also in certain administrative areas of Hungary, so that they can be accommodated in public areas, so that they can be designated as accommodations, which, by reading the text, will mean that thousands, tens of thousands of people can be on the streets, in squares, in forests, in bushes, children and families if the text is read carefully. But that we are not wrong: at the committee meeting, our fellow Member, Lajos Szűcs, said by shouting, but made it clear that yes, and obviously Szeged will be designated as the first such administrative unit, and the private residence of Mayor László Botka, he thought funnyly. The thing is, unfortunately, there is nothing funny about this, and we also believe that the government is about to do so. Not only do you not know and do not want to guarantee the most fundamental human rights of those arriving here, including children, but you are putting the safety of the Hungarian people living here at risk very hard and can cause chaos from the point of view of public safety and public health, if you seriously believe that refugees can be placed in public areas in accordance with the law. The MSZP has submitted its two amendments which would provide an immediate solution to this situation by tightening the budget on the one hand and the penal code on the other. We wish to transfer HUF 22 billion to the BÁH, the Immigration Office and the police, as they are the ones who can guarantee the safety of the Hungarian border, the Hungarian citizens, and the Immigration Office should be responsible for quickly and professionally assessing and prosecuting the arrivals. You don't think there's room for that. Just now, when we voted on the agenda, this proposal was simply swept away. They did not answer the question, either, at the committee meeting, about what will happen until you raise this southern barbed wire, as we listen to reports daily, we hear how many arrive daily across the green border, and we face every day that the Hungarian authorities are unable to defend the Hungarian border. By the way, they don't even think barbed wire is the best option. You may remember that, because this was the reason for the previous bill in the general debate, Antal Rogán, that the French left-wing president François Hollande had the French-Italian border closed overnight or overnight. I do not remember, fellow Members, that in one night the French authorities would have built a fence on the French-Italian border. Obviously, if potent, well-equipped law enforcement agencies that can defend the borders of the country are available in a country, then, fellow Members, it can be resolved in place of billions spent on barbed wire, but that is clearly not your goal. The Btk. And to tighten up your fight against smuggling, I'm sure you can't make one sound argument as to why you don't support it. Just a few weeks ago, it was discovered that such smugglers were regularly sentenced to a suspended sentence by the court. They can then continue their unblessed activities. We think it would be very important at this moment for the legislator to send a message to both smugglers and law-abiding people, that against these people who wish to make money by taking advantage of the poverty of refugees and committing a crime, Hungary is not showing any tolerance, and anyone who is involved in this preparation can expect a certain prison sentence. Even Antal Rogán, who is on the agenda here, says that we are on the side of immigrants, that we want to strengthen the police or the Immigration Office, that you can lie about it, the fact is that the staff of the Immigration Office are already working 24 hours a day as civil servants, so that they can hold the fort at all, and until your barbed wire comes out in months or six months, they can't answer what will happen, or the bill shows that there will be even more trouble, even more scandal, there will be even more danger for the people living here, and obviously you already have a timetable for what will happen next. The MSZP and Jobbik have tabled an amendment, none of which we have discussed in substance, none of which we have received a substantive response, of course the majority of the committee has wiped out all of them. This proposal poses a significant threat to the security of the Hungarian people, while it does not guarantee the most fundamental rights of refugees, the right to a fair trial and the most fundamental human rights. This bill cannot be supported in this form. Thank you very much.
u2015-07-06-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a 15-minute time frame per group of representatives. The Fidesz Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to the leader of the group, Antal Rogán.
u2015-07-06-27	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to remind everyone that when we first raised the issue of economic immigration still thickly towards the end of the winter in February, a significant part of my opposition fellow Members, but especially the left-wing Members, clearly said that there was no such problem. At the time, by the end of 2014, the number of economic immigrants arriving illegally across the border increased 20 times by the end of 2014, and it was already apparent in February that the year 2015 would decide this many times. When the government announced a national consultation on how we want to address this problem, the answer was also that there was no need for such a national consultation, in fact immigration is not a problem, and immigrants should be welcomed because there should be solidarity. [[10.40]] This was the opinion of the Hungarian left at the time when this issue became more and more pronounced. So let us be clear, ladies and gentlemen, that if left-wing opinions were to prevail, we would have been flooded today by economic immigrants, and we would not have had the opportunity for Hungary to establish a defence mechanism, a defence system that can protect not only the Hungarian borders, but also the borders of Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, The reason why we had to vote in favour of a Hungarian solution was that this problem was indeed a problem for Hungary, you said a few months ago that such a problem does not exist for Hungary, because immigration is a problem for Germany and Italy, and I could still mention it, and today the European Union recognises what we said in February that Hungary is on one of the most important routes to Europe in terms of immigration, which has now turned out to be the most important route, because by May it has become clear that the land route leading through the Balkans is actually the route through which most economic immigrants arrive to Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, We believe that the solution to the problem remains not to deal with how we strengthen the institutional system, how we can receive as many immigrants as possible, how we can deal with their questions; no, fellow Members, because if we strengthen this trend, then - let us be honest. - we're going to attract more people to Europe. The task is to protect the borders of Hungary and Europe. Now it's safe to say that we're not the only ones who think that. The national consultation launched by the government, I think, can be assured, is one of the most successful national consultations in the short time available, as more than a million people have already answered the government's questions, and based on the preliminary processing, since almost seven or eight hundred thousand questionnaires have already been processed, 80 percent of people clearly want to tighten the legislation on immigration and prevent illegal immigrants from entering Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this is a solution to the bill, which is here today before the Parliament, and Parliament must now decide in black and white how long it will take for the technical border closure to be built at the Serbian-Hungarian border; because, fellow Members, if you do not give us the opportunity to negotiate urgently, then, obviously, there are no legal conditions for the construction of the security border closure - and I think that this was clearly the aim of the opposition parties. Because, let's be honest, there's no one here other than the governing parties - nobody. - didn't support the urgent decision to set up a safety barrier. Then don't talk, ladies and gentlemen, about when the safety border closure will provide a solution; of course, if we can build it, but to build it, I think that we need urgency. You did not support it here in Parliament, and Jobbik did not support it; it took the votes of the governing parties to enable Parliament to decide on this law at all. I think that the votes to be cast today and at the end of the debate will also clearly reveal who is pro-immigration and who is not. Those who vote 'no' to this bill are clearly pro-immigration, and those who vote 'yes' to this bill, I think they really want to prevent illegal economic immigrants from entering Hungary, and they want to protect the borders of Hungary and the European Union. And, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this is a solution, and the fact that we are not the only ones in Europe who are using such a security barrier. This is also applied by the Spanish, which was also built at the Bulgarian-Turkish border, and everywhere the experience is that where the safety barrier was built, it was the seventh - seventh! - the number of people who were able to cross the border illegally. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this is also necessary in Hungary, if not for anything else, because, by the way, the number of illegal border crossings crossing the border this year is well over 60,000, and let us not forget: only this weekend 2,300 people were caught by border guards during the illegal crossing of the border at the Serbian-Hungarian border. There is a need for the rapid construction of the border closure, and I would ask for the votes of the opposition parties here in the Honourable Parliament. If I may, I would like to extend the floor to my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Commission President Lajos Kósa.
u2015-07-06-29	Mr. President. Dear House, At the beginning of this year, the National Assembly's competent committee, the National Defence and Police Committee, first dealt with the issue of immigration. It was already clear that something had to be done, because the number of illegal immigrants will increase in the course of the year, which cannot be left unspoken, especially if we take seriously the international treaty that Hungary has signed under the Schengen Convention, in which Hungary has undertaken to protect Europe's Schengen borders in accordance with the Schengen Convention, which means that there, on that border section, it will only allow people who have a visa to enter the Schengen area of the European Union, if they come from a country subject to visas or have a valid decision after the relevant international procedures, to have access to Europe, to the Schengen area and to the right of residence. This can happen in a number of cases, one which is now being abused by illegal border crossings in a mass of hundreds of thousands, is the request for political asylum. Political asylum is obviously a mass abuse by people prepared by international smuggling gangs and smuggled here with expensive money. Let us not forget: according to international data, one person's smuggling into the European Union ranges from $3,000 to $6,000. And anyone who is able to pay between $3,000 and $6,000 to the smuggling gangs is certainly not penniless, certainly not penniless! If we have something to do, it is precisely to prevent these smuggling gangs, by the way, fooling these people, looting families with their masses, putting illegal immigrants in an impossible position. After all, it is clear that they are not being prepared or lied to about what requests may otherwise be made, what we accept. This is why the number of decisions validly conducted by the Hungarian authorities and which constitute the granting of refugee status is a fraction of the number of people seeking asylum status here in Hungary. By the way, it is typical that there were 42 700 illegal border crossings last year, who applied for asylum, of which 280 received political asylum, although the Hungarian authorities will otherwise have to carry out the procedure for each of them in accordance with the Dublin regulations. It is clear that this question has very much divided the Hungarian political elite into a camp of clearly pro-immigration and immigration and anti-immigration. The pro-immigration people welcomed the poster campaign, which is the most typical poster, which perhaps best describes their opinion: a. Wellcome to Hungary! They want as many people as possible. So why only hundreds of thousands? Millions, since we know that 5 million people are on their way to Europe at any moment, and we are the largest country now making the biggest traffic, the front country in this respect. Of course, we know that if the Greeks were to comply with the Schengen agreement and otherwise hold illegal border crossings entering the Greek territory for the first time in accordance with the Dublin regulations, they would not be able to arrive to us, because none of them can legally arrive because they first entered the territory of the European Union. Greece is obviously a safe country in the strict and figurative sense of the word, they have economic difficulties, but there is no political persecuted person who would otherwise be pursued further in Greece. Compared to this, the Greeks took a position that, deliberately and knowingly, very little resources were allocated to receiving refugees and building the entire asylum institution, they achieved that the European Court of Justice held that Greece was not a safe third country due to the inadequacy of the asylum apparatus. [[10.50]] Which is nonsense because you can see how the European Union's solidarity is creaking from this point of view - what does this court decision say? If someone wants to shake this system off his back, then there is simply a very small amount of money to be spent on the establishment of an asylum institution, and the European Court of Justice immediately says that this is the country to which refugees cannot be legally sent back, in accordance with the Dublin regulations. It is clear from this that the position of the European Union as a whole is extremely deceitful and that it lacks the basic elements of solidarity, because the European Union has refused to give its full blessing to maritime operations, only for the first stage, which means observation, even though we already know at this age where the smugglers are, we know where the refugees are going to end up, where the refugees are being picked up. The task of the European united forces would be to seize these smugglers - as the subject of repeat crime - and, by the way, to prosecute them internationally against smugglers. Compared to this, the EU is also divided, typically the left of the EU, which is particularly pro-immigration and immigration. The Hungarian left also had a representative who said that he supported immigration. We heard the representative of the Együtt, who said that Hungarian labour force problems should be solved through immigration. Obviously, he was not disturbed by the fact that immigrants do not speak a language at all in which they could cooperate with employers in Hungary, their qualifications cannot be used in the European sense, and, moreover, most of all, they do not want to leave Hungary, but they either urge them to leave Hungary or they want to receive aid. Compared to this, being a pro-immigrationist in Hungary, what the left is doing, is specifically ignoring the interests of the Hungarian people. Hungary has enough problems, we also have hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens who are looking for work, who should find work, who is not particularly qualified, who is having difficulty moving, and which is why they should be helped, because we cannot get organized to build a system for better prosperity for the poor of the world. This not only goes beyond the possibilities of Hungary, but even the Union, not to mention the fact that the European Left is chasing countless illusions about the possibility of integration, although, by the way, go now to countries where it was forbidden to describe that there was a problem in this regard. Today, too, the Swedes, who take the most extreme position on this issue, say that this model has fallen, cannot live together, and that even the basic eaves of Swedish society are creaking and creaking and tensioning by this now millions of immigrants that the Swedes cannot live with. We should not wait for this in Hungary; this should not be provoked by the Hungarian left. Of course, we know it's an obvious political profit, and they could tell us later, but why didn't the Hungarian government do something. And when the Hungarian government wants to do something, for example, to build a fence, of course they do not support it, although it is otherwise our duty to defend the borders and to hold back this modern migration at the border. If we do not do this, Hungary's interests will be seriously damaged already in the medium term, we are imposing burdens on Hungarian taxpayers on which they are not customers, which they have repeatedly stated. Let the honourable Members take a look at what the man on the street says about whether he wants to live with it or not, where the presence of immigrants is already felt, and quite rightly say that this is our country, we want to build it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and, of course, we are hospitable, but we cannot do anything about this immigration and protect Hungary from such a wave of immigrants. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-07-06-30	Thank you, President of the Commission, Lajos Kósa. I now give the floor to Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2015-07-06-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I presented our professional position during the presentation of the TAB's minority opinion. Sommasically, I can repeat the same thing, the Fidesz government is unable to defend the borders of Hungary and the European Union and Hungarian citizens, and it has done nothing for six months, and this is what can be expected in the next six months by reading the bill that is currently in front of us. And to express our political opinion, allow me to read you two verses of a poem: "I lived on this earth in such an age, / when man was so desolated, / that he killed willingly, with pleasure, not only by command, / and while he believed in blunders, and ferocious delirious delusions, / overwhelmed his life. / [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: Is it about communism?]] In such an age I lived on this earth, / when the man who raised his voice could hide and chew his fists in shame, - / the country went wild and was drunk on a terrible fate / grinned with blood and filth. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Intercoms from the governing parties and Jobbik.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to read these two paragraphs, and I did not think that Lajos Kósa and Antal Rogán would literally comply with both paragraphs. What you guys have been saying here is that racist, xenophobic talk you've been giving here as a keynote speech. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is simply unworthy of the walls of this House. The Hungarian Socialist Party does not support this bill in this form. Thank you very much. [[György Szilágyi: Long live the Republic of the Council! György Balla: Shame on you! Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-07-06-32	I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2015-07-06-33	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, [[Moore in the ranks of MSZP and Jobbik. The president's ringing the bell.]] First of all, in the context of this speech, I believe that I must protect my fellow Members, because it is clear that they have not made any racist statements, but have formulated how to protect Hungary and the Hungarian people. Ladies and Gentlemen, At the EU two-day summit in Brussels, an agreement was reached on the separation of refugees and economic migrants in need of assistance on the issue of migration. It was agreed that this separation should, as far as possible, take place outside the EU's borders or at least in the front countries. Two front countries are defined: Italy and Greece. Our country has decided not to apply for a status in Hungary, because the vast majority of refugees are already arriving in other EU Member States. Ladies and Gentlemen, For these reasons, migration camps should be set up outside the European Union. Once the asylum procedure has been completed, those fleeing war or persecution from these camps must be admitted to European communities, while Member States are free to decide on the admission of economic migrants individually. [[Some better-looking and MSZP Members continue to talk. The president's ringing the bell.]] The European Union is currently setting out a dual expectation of Hungary on migration that is difficult to meet. The EU expects us not to have any refugees in custody during the course of the asylum procedure, but also expects us to somehow prevent refugees from moving to the West. Our Christian Democratic position is that saving human life is first and foremost, and therefore those fleeing war or persecution must be accepted into the European Union, but the actual debate is not about that, but about what happens to illegally arriving economic migrants. From Turkey, immigrants arriving on land are the first to cross the borders of the European Union in Greece or Bulgaria, but they are the first to register in Hungary. It follows from the above that neither Greece nor Bulgaria are implementing their obligations under the Dublin Regulation, i.e. they are committing a serious infringement against all Member States of the European Union. [[11.00]] The result of an infringement against Hungary is that migration towards Hungary has started, which means, in particular, that this year more than 62 thousand refugees had to be registered by the Hungarian authorities. Due to the above situation, in order to protect Hungary and the European Union, it is possible to make a responsible decision other than to build a temporary border closure at the Hungarian-Serbian border and to pay particular attention to the detection of trafficking networks. Only this year, with the help of Austria, Serbia and Europol, more than 600 smuggling teams have been captured, but newer and more teams are always coming to their place, as their members can often earn multiples of their annual salary with an action. Hungary provides technical and personnel assistance to protect the Macedonian-Serbian border, while the Serbian border guard is currently assisted by 40 Austrian border guards, to whom 80 German police officers have already joined. In addition to the 62 thousand people placed under the asylum procedure, they initiated the return of another 15,600 migrants from Austria and Germany, saying that they were registered for the first time in Hungary. Ladies and Gentlemen, Hungary has therefore asked the European Union, for 16 800 people, not to be obliged to take back, but to be voluntary, because, for example, the economically stronger France and Italy expect 20 to 20 thousand fewer immigrants. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the light of the above facts, we can say with certainty that Hungary's huge success is that it has failed the plan of the compulsory quota system, that is to say, we have achieved that the Heads of State and Government of the European Union have removed this proposal from the agenda of a thousand sores, and last Friday, they agreed to allocate a total of 60 thousand refugees to each other in two years, on a voluntary basis, 40 thousand from those who came to Italy and Greece, and 20 thousand from those fleeing from civil war conflicts, for which Hungary and Bulgaria are subject to special consideration. Despite this special consideration, I can say that we will, of course, act on the basis of the principle of solidarity, because the protection of actual political refugees is an extremely great result of the change in the Hungarian system, and we believe that those in persecution must be protected. Ladies and Gentlemen, In the light of the above facts, Mr Sándor Pintér presented the T/5416. Legislative proposal on migration, which proposes the following main amendments. The law on asylum and the entry and residence of third countries contains amendments allowing asylum procedures to be carried out quickly and effectively within the options provided by the EU legal framework. The amendment of the state border law would give the Hungarian State the right of public use within 10 metres of the border of the Schengen external borders. Hungary is subject to one of the greatest migratory pressures in its history, and the institutional system is overloaded. Due to the radical increase in the number of asylum seekers, there was a need to strengthen the control of the Schengen external border and increase the number of accommodations guarded by the foreign police. The current legislative environment needs to be modified so that those who have an established international protection need can be identified as quickly and effectively as possible; and those who do not have such a defence need, typically economic immigrants, can be deported from the country as soon as possible. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill also limits the right of repeated asylum seekers to remain in the area. Where a re-application is made, the applicant shall not automatically be entitled to remain on the territory of Hungary without limitation. The procedure currently divided into two stages, preliminary and detailed studies will be simplified by merging the two stages, thus shortening the duration of the procedure and reducing our spending on each applicant. The asylum procedure would continue until the decision can be enforced and the applicant would remain in asylum detention until the end of the judicial procedure. The authority would terminate the procedure if the applicant left the accommodation or residence designated for him without authorisation for more than 48 hours. The reasons for not recognising as refugees would be complemented by terrorist acts, terrorist financing and inciting them, and it will not be possible to recognise as refugees a foreigner whose residence in Hungary violates or threatens national security. The retention period would also be modified, which would increase from 12 hours to 24 hours. The provision that applicants would be heard by the court at the place of detention would also speed up the procedure. The bill would also complement the legislation on the entry and residence of third-country nationals by allowing the foreign police authority to seize the compensation for the damage caused intentionally by the data subjects and, in some cases, the amount paid for their maintenance and care. An exception to the latter is granted to residents for humanitarian purposes or to foreigners granted international protection. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill also includes amendments to the state border law. According to this, the Hungarian State has the right of public use within 10 metres of the border at the Schengen external borders. This entitles defence, national security and law enforcement bodies to establish and operate specific types of structures, i.e. temporary safety seals. The proposal also provides for compensation for cross-border property owners, the content of the rights of use and certain issues relating to the exercise of rights. Finally, the bill would also provide an opportunity for third-country nationals seeking recognition and living in a designated place of residence to work in a public employment relationship. Ladies and Gentlemen, Remember, this House did not decide last Friday by accident that this bill, which allows the technical closure to be built as quickly as possible, would be dealt with in an exceptional procedure. This means, in particular, that the Legislative Committee had already held a detailed debate last Friday, and, following this consolidated debate, the Parliament will decide on the matter. Ladies and Gentlemen, An exceptional procedure was needed to ensure that the decision was not postponed for an uncertain period of time, since the Parliament will meet only in the autumn next time, and this would delay the closure of the border for several months, even though it is an immediate and serious problem, because while 42 777 people came to Hungary last year, almost 70 thousand people this year, and if we did nothing, this illegal immigration could reach up to 120 to 130 thousand people by the end of the year. Hungary obviously does not tolerate so many people, so it is extremely important that the country takes a position in such a modern migration. [[11.10]] Legal arrivals must be allowed into the country, but not those who come illegally. That is why we need a technical border lock. All opposition parties are asked to support the policy launched by Fidesz-KDNP on migration. KDNP parliamentary faction supports T/5416. Bill No. 1. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-34	Thank you, Congressman Vejkey. Dear Parliament, The Jobbik Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position in the 15-minute time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2015-07-06-35	Mr President, Dear House, When we talk about a border lock or a plan to build a fence, Jobbik obviously speaks in a supportive tone, even because the basic idea of this is actually from Mayor László Toroczkai in the Digedhalm region, and much more than a year ago, the need to do something in the middle of the flood, which László Toroczkai had then had to hold back with his three-man field guard in the area of Asotthalom. At the same time, it can be seen that the border lock itself, without an independent border guard and without humans, can only produce a limited effect. Let me share one example with the honourable House and the honourable fellow Members. When two weeks ago, Jobbik's delegation of national and local leaders visited Magyarkanizsa, Asotthalom and Szeged with a film group, we met twenty young people from the Congo and arrived in the outskirts of Asotthalom, and indeed we saw that the surrounding farms affected the population, asking them for water, demanding transport, caused quite tense situations and conflicts. When László Toroczkai asked for police backup, namely, that at least one police officer should come to the scene, he said that he was told that there were no freely mobilizable personnel to solve this problem. Later, we found out what was likely the reason for the refusal. The fact that in the other part of Asotthalom's outskirts, a hundred assembled migrants were about to be transported by police forces. So there were police forces, but there was no time for the 20-man group because of the 100-man group. If the fence is built, I don't think it can be cut through a cutting tool in three minutes, but I'm sure that gangs of criminals, smugglers, will soon find their way through it, within months, how to get through it, how to avoid it, what new means to penetrate it. So it makes sense if, along the course of the operation of an independent border guard, human resources can, to the extent necessary, preserve the southern ends of Hungary and its borders at all. We also need to see that we are in a particular situation when the representatives of the MSZP are facially yelling about racism and xenophobia in a situation where more migrants arrive in the country in proportion to the length of time than the number of Hungarian children born. It is amazing how some Members do not see the gravity of the problem! If we opened the gates, we would certainly not only experience an unsustainable situation typical of the Scandinavian states, but also that, while Hungarian public states are the same from hospitals to emigration, the MSZP did not actually say a word about where it would maximize the budgetary resources from which it would keep refugees, the mass of economic immigrants, it would keep them here, where appropriate, certain detentions or liberal co-organisations would provide social housing for them, an opportunity to settle down, obviously free language education and integration programmes. So there are pretty amazing onionous fever dreams that show that from the Balliberal side, the absolute reflex of the nation's self-defense has simply disappeared. He's completely and completely gone. We can therefore say that, in addition to the plan to build a fence, a separate border guard is needed, as we have said, to close open refugee hostels, to place them outside the residential area, and to clarify whether the government of Hungary is willing to accept even one refugee in terms of deportations, as we claim, one is a lot. It can be seen that, according to your plans and justifications, it has been repeatedly suggested that migrants can live not only in the reception centre but also in a private accommodation in a community hostel. Obviously, this would be a dangerous gate opening that wouldn't stop the flood from spreading. Jobbik insists that the people here can only stay in a closed reception centre for as short a time as possible, as we must see that, while Viktor Orbán is very rightly promising to close the refugee hostel in Debrecen or to close it - this has not yet been clarified, but we hope to close it - we also see that with an investment of more than 100 million, the same institution is being expanded, so they are putting new apartments next to it. And we also saw in yesterday's better demonstration how life takes place within the hostel, and it can be said that its capacity is well over 100 percent overloaded, and we also see that these enlargements are taking place in parallel to the fact that the government's communication involves tightening up and tightening. So you might want to clear that up. However, it is also clear that, under the package before us, the tightening up we are talking about here, in terms of the future, would, therefore, apply in full to those who have made a request later. Well, if there's a place and a place for all migrants who stay here and stay here to be subject to more stringent regulations, then that's the thing. This is the case when more than a hundred people from the hotel in Debrecen were armed and attacked in a horde of Hungarians. There are therefore clear indications that we need to tighten up and intervene immediately. And why is it important to do so now? Because if Hungary is not able to provide its own reproduction and is in a position to be covered by a flood of so-called refugees, then a few decades later we will have to talk about how we can preserve the image that belonged to Hungary. We simply have to prevent the amazing war situation now, when we have to fight to meet the Hungarians' slogan. Jobbik clearly expects the Hungarian countryside to be populated by Hungarian people. We don't need anyone to be integrated, settled. And in addition to providing food, drink and accommodation to asylum seekers for a very short period of time, it must be very sharply delineated that this helping hand cannot mean integration, it cannot mean resettlement, and it cannot mean sacrificing or even risking the image that Hungary can remain of a Hungarian character, and that Hungarian people can populate those who have fought for it for generations. Jobbik therefore believes that there is no need for so-called economic immigration, nor is there a need to admit even one repatriated person. The necessary negotiations must also be carried out on the international stage. But the fence must be accompanied by an independent border guard, with appropriate training, appropriate training and resources, in order to prevent the flood. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-06-36	Thank you, Congressman. In the remaining better time frame, it is for Congressman Ádám Mirkóczki.
u2015-07-06-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I'd like to pick up where my colleague left off. I'd like to make a few additions. You often say, not to us, but to the left, that when this problem was raised in February and early this year, it was clear how long it would escalate and what could happen in the coming months. That is true, but I would like to remind you that Jobbik - looking back at the speeches and other submissions made by the various parliamentary genres of the previous term - has been warning about this since 2012. I am only saying this because if you had taken seriously what we were going to face, say, in 2015, this could have been prevented, whether in 2013 or 2014, and this is not the time to hurry. It's an important basis for how seriously we take it. And it can also be interesting and instructive for you to look at the then government responses, which say that there is no problem with refugee camps, that illegal migration can be handled by the police; and now you say the opposite, because it is obvious that it is physically impossible, in the current situation, to handle all this with resources. As far as the proposal is concerned, it is absolutely natural that Jobbik will support it, because it has tightening ups. But, of course, we have the same number of criticisms with him, and we do not agree with all of his points. I would not like to list our amendments in substance now. It is quite sad that in the committee you no longer considered it important to support them, although I would add that our amendments could not only remedy the present terrible situation, but also those that will take place after the border closure has been established. After all, as others have already pointed out, once the border lock is recovered, it will be a few weeks and months before either the smugglers or the pre-thinking illegal migrants, immigrants will seek alternative routes, alternative opportunities, and try to leak into our country at other border stages. [[11.20]] It should also be considered now, not when the fence is finished, and it will be bypassed in one way or another. I really don't want to waste any time with the MSZP attitude. It's really funny that they don't think there's been a problem so far, and now we need to tighten up Btk. It's simple to see that there's a struggle and they don't really know when to tell the truth or when to assess the situation in a realistic way. I think it is a national issue to prevent this problem. What I would like to add to what I have to say, and perhaps this would be the most important part of these few minutes, it is possible to fight against illegal migration, and it is even necessary to protect Hungarian people and Hungarian economic assets. But remember this: as long as they pursue such a foreign policy, all this is quite hypocritical, all of this is quite a setback. You are unconditionally supporting the United States of America in almost every military and geopolitical strategy, in your vision, all of this is done by knowing exactly who caused this huge migration. I don't want to put you in the hands of the United States, and I don't want it to be just XX. Make it look like a 100th-century problem. We could also list those Member States of the European Union that still collect colonial taxes from some countries in North Africa. And who, even in North Africa, has caused the economic, political, social tensions that millions of people are now on the road? Who caused the crisis in the Middle East, causing millions to travel? And who do you support when you give to military or other actions in the Middle East or in other regions of the world, no matter the extent of your support? The support will also legalise, for your part, all the political efforts these powers have, how shall I say, represent or want to achieve. And once again, Hungary should not be paying the price, and I agree with you on this, what these huge masses of people are now, these migrants. And it should not be enough that the European Union, or let us put it this way, is falling from the table in Brussels, which now means a few billion dollars to address the refugee issue... - that is enough and we applaud that hurrah, Brussels has given us, I do not know how many billion forints. It's just a fraction, just enough for a while. I would be braver if I were you, and I would dare to go if you were already a member of the People's Party, and you have the right to speak in every European Union and international body, even on the part of the government, which can give you the reasons and the effects that we are not talking about. But I would like to encourage you to name those responsible, whether within Europe or outside Europe, and also to name the minimum moral and economic demand for the price to be paid and the consequences, whether social, economic or social, must be borne by those countries which have caused this situation. And I'm sorry, but I can't feel sorry for France when they're complaining about how many North African countries there are people coming to them with the aim of taking advantage of their social network, while France is still collecting colonial taxes. And it destroys those countries in the economy and in all the areas from which they now receive the refugees. And what would they want to achieve in a hypocritical way? It means that Hungary should stop him and give us some dirt from the European budget so that they do not have to bear these burdens. But we could count Britain and the rest. We know well what the great colonial countries and nations were. It would be appropriate and appropriate for you and these associations to now place your unconditional support, not to support either military or any other international mission that will not solve the social, economic or political tensions in these regions, but to excite specifically and thus increase the flow of people that we can now call the occupation of Europe. It is not a story here that a few thousand or a few ten thousand people are going on the road in the hope of a better life, but this is the story of the unprecedented migration of people now, the 21st. The dawn of the century. I would like you to be consistent, and I think that every sane citizen of Hungary would like to see a change in this problem at last, not only in the sense of communication, foreign policy and military security policy, which is finally consistent and which finally says no to such international practice, which I would like us to drink. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-06-38	Thank you, Congressman Mirkóczki. I now give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, leader of the LMP Group.
u2015-07-06-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Lajos Kósa here at the Fidesz lead speaker said something about the fact that, in fact, those who want to come into Hungary are immigrants, almost said that they are not even economic refugees, because they have so much money. Well, Lajos Kósa didn't say they could pay for a concert in New Zealand. Now, on the other hand, the reality is that at the end of the week, when my colleague Sallai was in the area of Morahalom, Domaszék, farmers were actually complaining that the fruits were being harvested and the carrots were being removed from the ground, because the people who were arriving in Hungary as refugees were actually starving. Dear Parliament, This bill of alien law, this proposal, fits exactly in with the program that we have seen on the part of the government, on the part of the ruling parties, in recent months. We are talking about a specific crisis at the Hungarian southern border today. We don't want to argue with that. But the solutions themselves or the proposals for solutions serve only the political theatre, just like Lajos Kósa's most scandalous statements here in the main speaker. There was an order, I suppose, this spring for the Habony works, about how to land a new subject that the government might not fall for immediately and immediately in public. Árpád Habony created this play, and Antal Rogán bells it now that the show is about pro-immigration and anti-immigration. The bad news for you is, unfortunately or fortunately, anyone can decide, but the world is not as simple as the Fidesz wishes it to be seen. Firstly, we have to face what I said the other day before the agenda, in reply to Minister for Foreign Affairs, that the whole refugee wave itself and the crisis at the southern borders of the European Union, at the southern ends of the European Union, are closely linked to what has been happening in North Africa and in the Middle East in recent years. Therefore, the story, and I am particularly pleased about the presence of Minister, not on police matters, on asylum issues, must be started, but on the question of what the foreign policy strategy, the security policy strategy that not only Hungary, but also the European Union and NATO have done in the Mediterranean in recent years, has actually been the result. The question must be asked whether, when various Euroatlantic powers are involved in destroying otherwise murderous dictatorships, but no state formation exists in their place, what exactly will be the consequences of this and whether Europe is prepared for it, I will deliberately say Europe, not just the European Union, so that when state formations appear to be solid in the Mediterranean, it will do exactly what exactly. Is the Euroatlantic community prepared for what social processes are being launched or what are existing processes in the Middle East and, where appropriate, in North Africa when foreign troops enter different areas? There is currently no answer to these questions, and unfortunately there is no answer from the Hungarian government. However, in the parliamentary debate on Hungarian military engagement in northern Kurdistan, the LMP has already asked this question. We asked whether the responsible Hungarian government has an answer, beyond the foreseeable military risks, about what will happen after a Western intervention, and whether Hungary is also willing to take responsibility for the processes that start from us after a military intervention. [[11.30]] The fact is, it is unlikely that war policy can be pursued unpunished. It is not possible to pursue unpunished policies that only subject peace-building to economic, global economic interests, and only to global economic interests, for example, to the settlement of the situation in the Balkans. It must also be seen that, in January, when the first anti- Alien speeches were spoken on your part, a number of people, indeed, from Kosovo, started towards the European Union. However, what we need to see is that the Kosovo state itself is in crisis, we are seeing the collapse of the Kosovo state; we are seeing that this state formation, which Hungary has recognised first, and it is coming up to negotiate with the European Union about the association, this state formation is therefore unable to guarantee its citizens basic living conditions. For this reason, I would like to ask that there be a clear foreign policy strategy on the part of Hungary, what Hungary will represent in Brussels, Washington, so that the European Union and NATO can contribute to stability in the Mediterranean in the next few days, and not to strengthen processes whose consequences are inaccessible to Hungarian citizens. This is why we consider the foreign policy that Hungary has been pursuing for a long time to be irresponsible. Dear Parliament, Yes, it was apparent that there will be a wave of refugees towards Hungary due to the collapse of Syria, Libya and the crisis of the Kosovo state formation, at least a wave that wishes to pass through Hungary. Therefore, what the Hungarian Government did before 2015 is questionable. Because the thing is that there was a real rise in the number of asylum applications not now, in 2015, but in 2014. Between the third and fourth quarters of 2014, there was a big leap in the number of asylum applications submitted in Hungary. The question is what the Hungarian government did then. But I will go further, in 2010, he entered the office of the Orbán government, so in the last five years, in the last five years, Mr Secretary of State, there would have been an opportunity to review what the former government had done before 2010, say, on the issue of border police, how much it can be kept, how much it guarantees the protection of Hungary's borders, for example, the elimination of border guards. There was no proposal from you, and when we said at the beginning of the year that it was actually necessary to improve asylum capacities, because the figures speak for themselves, that the Hungarian budget has spent a minimum amount on this in recent years and even before the 2010 government change, you have simply ignored these points. It is therefore well founded to see that only a communication campaign was launched in January, in a rather shameful way linked to the Charlie Hebdo assassination, linking the threat of terrorism to immigration and asylum, and then tragically, this communication campaign took on an otherwise existing wave in May and June. You asked people out of a billion forints how much they were afraid, although it is the institution of government propaganda in itself that should be persecuted. For years, LMP has been demanding that government propaganda be banned by law. If there's any hidden party funding, it's exactly what you're doing on your billboards and the national consultation questionnaires. They rejected the Commission's proposal for a common solution, the quota system, which was indeed objectionable in its form, while shouting that Europe was not helping. The Dublin Convention, which is undoubtedly in need of reform, has been denounced, whereby refugees registered here can be deported to Hungary, but their reference is false, since Hungary has had the opportunity to hold back and refuse readmission if it can prove that Hungary was not the first EU Member State to which they have fled to the territory of the European Union at its borders. The Dublin Convention was terminated and was withdrawn within 24 hours; there has been no clear explanation from the government ever since. They made a law whereby the Hungarian government could classify Serbia not only as a safe country - it depends on your decision - and on Wednesday Syria will be classified as a safe third country and announced that they would build a wire fence from HUF 22 billion to the Serbian border, which is to be bypassed or cut through - so let's face it. - it won't be that difficult. What happened then was that your political theater was built and built, and you cannot account for, for example, that, interestingly, in 2007 Viktor Orbán himself, the then leader of the opposition, was exactly what the LMP today represents in this case, namely that there is no separate national road in the case of refugees. This is what Viktor Orbán said: there is no other way than a common European immigration policy. That is what your party president, the current Prime Minister of Hungary, said in 2007, even though the Mediterranean was already in 2007. Lajos Kósa is alarmed by the deportation of 200,000 refugees from Germany and Austria, compared to 522 registered asylum seekers were sent back to us from January to April, and 827 of the 43,000 asylum seekers registered here were returned all year last year. But while we are talking about numbers, it is also worthwhile to face the fact that, by the way, when the country is alarmed, we need to see what statistical figures justify Hungary's role in the European refugee crisis. In Hungary, while 35 percent of all asylum seekers in Europe receive an average positive assessment, 8 percent will receive a positive evaluation, 8-9 percent. The second point is that in recent years the asylum budget has been 15 per cent of the total annual budget, both before 2010 and after 2010. Hungarians are alarmed by the delay in the procedures, compared to this, it seems that the average final end of three to six months, which is characterized by asylum procedures in Hungary, is one of the fastest in Europe. So in Hungarian: Hungary has accepted one of the least refugees, and on the other hand, the procedure has been one of the fastest in European comparison. It must be acknowledged that, of course, there are points of progress in the proposal, but, for example, if acceptance as a refugee is unsuccessful, it may be possible to provide for expulsion at the same time. There would be support for rationalising and speeding up procedures, but at the same time it should be borne in mind that, over a certain period of time, a fair and humane asylum procedure cannot be carried out, and Hungary is currently one of the list leaders with regard to speeding up procedures. It is not a devil's idea to extend public employment, but there is no protection in Hungary regarding the vulnerability of public workers, there is no guarantee that these people will not become victims of abuse. And it can be continued that there are elements that are otherwise forward-looking, but, for example, there is still no answer to what the Hungarian asylum system does not know that there is a transition between a closed camp and freedom of residence. This would be the real solution, but obviously when they want to do a political circus, a political theatre, there is little real treatment of the problem, the humane, fair solution in the foreground. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, despite saying both fidesz and better-looking Members, the help hand cannot be denied to those who flee from the throat of death, what the Hungarian Parliament is about to accept last week and this week, means that unfortunately Hungary will deny the help hand to those who are indeed from the various bombed countries, where religious and ethnic conflicts are constant, seek refuge from the throat of death. Hungary cannot do this. We need an asylum apparatus, an immigration apparatus that can make a clear distinction between refugees and people who are not migrants to Hungary. Without developing capacities, the current policy will lead Hungary to deny recognition as a refugee by accepting the proposals of Fidesz and Jobbik, and to deny the help of those who are really fleeing from the throat of death to the European Union. [[11.40]] This is the case, because from the moment Serbia is recognised as a safe third country, although many Hungarian decisions in Curia and German final judicial decisions also say that in asylum proceedings the unification cannot be avoided or a border closure is built on the southern border, this means that Hungary does not want to accept refugees at all. It is clear that the unfortunate people who, by the way, flee from murders and persecution from crushed states, yes, typically choose the different channels that smugglers offer to them. But that doesn't change the fact that these people are persecution. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] fleeing death and expect a humanitarian solution from Europe. Thank you very much.
u2015-07-06-40	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, The first independent Member to speak, Mrs Szabó Timea, will now take the floor. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is an eight-minute time frame for speaking to independent Members. Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi also applied for a speech, and I assume that they shared time with each other. [[Szabó Timea nods.]] You have the floor, Congresswoman Timea Szabó.
u2015-07-06-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Here, the government is lyingly setting this whole discussion as if there were pro-immigration and non-immigration. We know that this is not about immigration, because then the government would have a normal immigration strategy that could be rationally debated, which could be condemned or supported, but that is not what this is about. This is exactly what you have said in a hypocritical way about whether we support refugees, those fleeing from the war zone, those fleeing death or not; whether we comply with our obligations under international, EU and domestic legislation or not. The Dialogue for Hungary is convinced that this is not only our moral obligation, but our legal obligation and our economic interests dictate this. After all, we will not be able to throw 35 billion forints or unreasonable throwing them out, it is insane to throw them on a fence that they will either cut or climb over. Let's look at the humane side in a few sentences. Orbán also said that the Hungarians are a merciful people, so those who really fled from the war will be accepted by us. That's what Lajos Kósa and Imre Vejkey said, after that they talked about economic immigration. The good news, ladies and gentlemen, is that according to the Immigration and Nationality Office, 90 percent of those seeking asylum today come here from Syria, Iraq or Afghanistan, which are clearly a war zone, so they are refugees. So I assure you, there is no mention of anyone here supporting economic immigration in Hungary. Besides, there are tens of thousands of economic immigrants living in Hungary who are not from the territory of the European Union, mostly from the United States, Canada or China, but I am sorry that my fellow Member Lajos Kósa is not here, because I could say that in his football team in Debrecen, for example, Sidibe in Senegal is such an immigrant, or the Serbian Novakovich, who is also his goalkeeper. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: But he didn't come to the green border.]] So if we want to talk about economic immigrants, let's talk about the football team in Debrecen or the Highway. [[Noise, interruptions from Fidesz and Jobbik. István Szilárd Németh: Don't talk such nonsense!]] Let's start with them. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Let's look at the legal side for a few minutes. Unfortunately, this proposal before us clearly violates fundamental rights, and we will therefore turn to János Áder if it is accepted. After all, the loss of the right to an effective remedy violates both domestic and international EU legislation. Everyone, Hungarian people, has experience of what it means to not wait for the end of a court hearing, a second-degree trial, or the end of the sentence. Imagine saying that someone is unfairly punished by the NAV for a half a million forints [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] And while he's being appealed, but there's no court judgment yet, the NAV is forcing him to pay this HUF 500,000 fine before the second degree judgment is delivered. Well, the same is true of asylum seekers. There's no way we won't wait for the trial to end, and that's what your proposal says. The Hungarian government will be able to expect the masses of penalties in Strasbourg because of these cases, which, in turn, will indeed be borne by the Hungarian taxpayers. Let's look at the legal side. The PM is very unable to support the possibility of sending or volunteering community service here to asylum seekers. We know that the next step will be that we can only do community service now, and then they will have to do it. In the same way, we regard it as an absolute violation that they may take the money of these refugees. You have no right to do this, my honourable members of the Government, because they are not paying for the benefits from the Hungarian taxpayers, not from the Hungarian state's money, but from European Union funds. To do so, we demand that this proposal be withdrawn. And let's look at the economic side of this: it will cost 35 billion forints in lower voice, not 22 what you say. In addition, we know that in Hungarian public procurement, if you say now that it is 35, then it will be 70. Now they don't have Lajos Simicska, and then there's someone else who's gonna steal these money for you. In addition, completely unnecessary, this fence will be cut, bypassed, and the asylum seekers will be able to enter Hungary in the same way. What would the Hungarian taxpayers say, or what would they say, that instead of raising the salary of social workers, daycare workers, doctors, nurses, you want to pay unnecessary fences with the Hungarian taxpayers' money? The PM demands that they stop with this crazy plan and actually spend the Hungarian taxpayers' money on what is needed at home. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik and Fidesz.]] 90 percent of social workers still earn under the minimum wage. This is unacceptable. PM's proposal is to comply with domestic and EU legislation. [[Noise, interruptions in Jobbik's ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Let us open new barracks so that we can provide these asylum seekers and help the Immigration and Nationality Office to actually provide these asylum seekers; let us help the administrators in this way, as has been said, they are already the fastest in Hungary after the Netherlands. I don't think that's gonna be a particular problem, by the way. Cancel this proposal, do not wait for the penalties in Strasbourg. Thank you. [[Noise in the ranks of Fidesz and Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-06-42	Thank you, Congresswoman. In the remaining timeframe, Mrs Zsuzsanna Szelényi will be the one to speak.
u2015-07-06-43	No more commentators?
u2015-07-06-44	In the remaining timeframe, Mrs Zsuzsanna Szelényi is the independent Member.
u2015-07-06-45	I'm next in the next round. It's okay. Thank you very much. Then I would like to make a very brief correction here today. Everyone talks as if all these people who come to Hungary are staying here as immigrants. We all know that this is not the case. A thousand people today, today, these days come in, and 980 leave Hungary every day. 90 percent of immigrants leave Hungary in the first three weeks. That's why they're not immigrants. We're talking refugees. [[Noise.]] We all know the success of the asylum procedure, because people are leaving. They don't want to stay in Hungary. Hungary is a transit country and these people must be provided with temporary care. That is why I would like not to talk about it in the first place, but I think that the fence that you want to put up is exactly what it seems symbolically and in reality. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] He locks himself in and shuts me out - that's what the fence means. Therefore, I think that this is an extremely bad and unfriendly idea. The fence you're trying to build now will be the fence of death and life. International practice and experience, according to Antal Rogán, may reduce the number of incomings by seven, but this is only valid during the first period. Indeed, as many people have already said, who are fighting for their lives, they will find a way to get to where they are safe. Therefore, this fence, as the Mayor of Lampedusa has already said thoroughly, will not bring any meaningful results, but will only achieve that Hungary will become a country of exclusivity. [[11.50]] And to conclude, I would like to draw your Christian attention to the pope's recent words, in which he asked everyone who put up a fence to ask for God's forgiveness. I think this is the fence. [[General noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] in no way does Hungary, Europe or our common Hungarian goals. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the independent and the MSZP.]]
u2015-07-06-46	Thank you, Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi. With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to try to turn the loud conversation down and calm it down. It will now be possible to make two-minute speeches, to one Member per faction and to the first independent Member to speak, against the remaining timeframes. I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer, Group Leader, for a two-minute comment.
u2015-07-06-47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, At a time when the LMP talks about the global context of the whole crisis, it is not possible to bypass the fact that today Hungary is translating the one-fourth part of the Czech Republic's international development policy. We are going to spend a hundred and four centuries on how to help people who are going on the road, yet live there, in their country, under humane conditions. So we understand that the Czech Republic spends 400 times the same amount on international development policy. Two: in the case of the border lock and, in particular, the fence, it might be worth facing the small legal problem that, after the fence itself will stand on the territory of Hungary, so that anyone who attempts to get through can at least partially climb the fence can seek asylum immediately, which, according to international conventions, must be examined in substance. So in Hungarian: in a legal sense it is not certain that it is a solution, beyond other contexts, the border closure itself. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that while we say that there are, of course, initiatives in the bill that may be practical, there are proposals for an inhumane solution, such as the seizure of asylum seekers' money in return for care, without any remedy. It cannot be done, and this is not only a right within Hungary, but also a general human right that redress must be given to everyone. Plus, they can take the money they have from children on their own. This is quite scandalous, and it also generates negligible revenue compared to what capacity developments would otherwise be needed in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2015-07-06-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Congressman László Pósán for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2015-07-06-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As I understand it, Mrs Selényi said that there is no need to deal with the refugee issue because they are moving on from here anyway. [[Zsuzsanna Szelényi: I did not say that! Szabó Timea: You didn't say you didn't have to deal with it!]] Therefore, let us do, from this logic, what the Macedonians, the Serbs, want to do as quickly as possible; on the other hand, they demand compliance with the Dublin Convention. Please, there is quite a contradiction here, and there is only one thing I would like to ask you that you haven't answered. They asked you in Debrecen if you would live at the temporary reception centre, which, unfortunately, is not temporary. Can you live there, or can you be so empathetic about the issue only from the height of the luxury apartment in Budapest? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Gergely Bárándy: What does that have to do with anything?]]
u2015-07-06-50	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey for two minutes, KDNP.
u2015-07-06-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Very briefly, but I must correct what Congresswoman Zsuzsanna Szelényi said. He said how the Holy Father spoke on this matter. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Holy Father didn't say that it was illegal to enter the territory of a country. He said that those who legally enter the territory of a country should enter it. [[Szabó Timea: He did not say that those who legally enter! General noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] calls for a fair procedure in respect of them. [[You wouldn't let the Pope in.]] It is clear that the Holy See does not support any act which violates the law of any country and which would be expressly illegal in international law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-52	Thank you very much, Congressman Vejkey. Dear Parliament, Any further speeches may be made within the remaining timeframes and may be monitored on the meeting room table. There was no pre-notification of a representative in writing, but much more from his place. First, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Bárándy, MSZP.
u2015-07-06-53	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to start by saying that, in my view, migration is a real problem in the European Union, and so it is a real problem in Hungary. If you think otherwise, you're wrong. At the same time, the ambition to confront the pro-immigration and pro-Hungary people is, I think, that it is doing nothing but deliberately instigating society. It is because this issue, this problem, has been proposed by different political forces or other professional organisations, and indeed, in many cases, they have different views on this issue, and they approach it on a different, where appropriate, moral basis. I'd like to remember three things first. One is that, as far as I know, no one wants to open the gates, i.e. they do not want to let everyone into the territory of Hungary indiscriminately and let them settle here. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The other is that the concept of an economic immigrant as such does not exist. It's an artificial concept created by Fidesz, designed for their mood-inspiring, inspiring communication. It serves this purpose, and nothing else, such a term does exist. Third, migration is a natural process in the world, directed towards the most advanced countries in the world, and the latter countries are responsible for keeping this process normal. Once again, the question is one, and we are arguing about how to do this, we are doing the right method and the right method. They would also remind us that, before they wish to give us anything else, our fellow members of the opposition, who are very close to the ruling party, did not say that this is not a problem. We have said that there is a bigger problem in Hungary today, or at least a problem of this magnitude, which is that hundreds of thousands of people are emigrating today. From Hungary to certain Member States of the European Union and to the United States, in the hope of a better livelihood, and this problem is at least as serious for Hungary at the moment, if not more serious than the issue of migration, as it is for migration towards us. I would also like to clarify, and unfortunately, we are once again dealing with the fact that Fidesz has an established method of finding a scapegoat, a social group that you call an enemy. They were like this before - to remind you - the early retired law enforcement officers, or the foreign capital, multinational companies, or even the disabled, and now migrants are like this. I hope that the Jews will not come; because scapegoating, fellow Members [[Károly Kontra: Objection!]] It's the standard method of good dictatorships, and unfortunately, it's a working method. These social groups are incited against them and they are opposed to Hungarian society, and when someone, say, uses the concept of solidarity in relation to migration, as did Pope Francis - and not as my fellow Member Vejkey said, he did not add any additions to it - let us say, with regard to migrants persecuted in our country, they immediately push him into the enemies of the Hungarian people. This kind of atmosphere and simplification is both irresponsible and immoral. What is interesting, fellow Members, is that so far there have been no problems in refugee camps! And don't tell me the increase in migration numbers, because there are about the same number of people living in refugee camps as before, not ten thousand, but a few hundred, maybe one and a half thousand. And now there's been a problem. What could be the reason for this? [[12.00]] We all know that, and I may not reveal any secrets, even to someone who is not really at home on this subject, that refugee camps are also watched by secret services. Either they couldn't handle this situation - a few hundred people, I'll say it again - or they were deliberately inciting it, because it's good for your communication. So far, it wasn't a problem. Now there's an interesting way. How interesting it was before to mention another example, when the loan sharks were on the agenda, they were the main enemies of society, of course, but you put it in the front row, you took at least two loan sharks every week, and that's what the reports were about. Since it became a different topic, the news has been interestingly silent, even though there may be loan sharks left in this country, unfortunately. I would like to say again and stress that this is a real problem. But inciting alienism, I think it's a scoundrel. All international and domestic laws refer to anti- Alienism with racism and anti-Semitism on a platform. Ladies and gentlemen, Do you know where we are? The fact that we just read a Facebook entry about the fact that the Facebook poster on a bus heard the following sentence from young people: we're going to beat immigrants. It's a real Nazi speech, isn't it? I think this kind of communication leads here, and it's not looking for a solution. That's the problem. We do not need a mood, honourable Members, but solutions. But it's not the Iron Curtain. Short-term and long-term solutions are needed. Short-term solutions are also needed. I think you know the proposals that we have put forward. Instead of an Iron Curtain, we would like the same amount to be transferred from the budget to strengthen the police and obtain technical equipment. We would consider it more effective than a short-term solution. We also suggested that in the Criminal Code, the facts of human trafficking should be punished more severely. This is also a certain short-term and, if you like, a surface treatment for this problem. You are not even willing to discuss these proposals. However, I think it would be worth talking about, because no one is, I say again, on the side of immigrants or on the side of the Hungarian people, but we are looking for a normal solution. This is the normal way we think it's driving around here. It would have been nice if they'd given us time to explain that. Ladies and gentlemen, One more sentence for the previous one. All the emergency ages began with words and scapegoats. [[István Szávay: Oh, no!]] I want them to understand. I do not mean the proper management efforts of migration, but the instigating rhetoric represented by the lead speakers of Fidesz. Once again, when he says and Jobbik joins in, Mr Z. Mr. Kárpát, whose speech I have listened to, in connection with the possible relief of migrants, that they should be provided with such assistance. Not to them, my honourable fellow Members, but to them, to them. That is indeed the huge difference between us. [[István Apáti: Give them a place to stay!]] You seem to treat them as objects, as some kind of bad phenomenon, not as humans. It's a problem. Members must have felt this way in the late thirties, as I do here in Parliament. [[István Apáti: Oh, my God! Foreman Novák: The emigrator is not a property name! Noise. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] With regard to longer-term solutions, ladies and gentlemen, I think that, in addition to Hungarian efforts, we need a European solution in the first place. [[István Apáti: We can expect that!]] It is necessary, ladies and gentlemen, because it is one of the most important things, and Mr Schiffer has already referred to this, but this is also referred to by Professor Ulrich Sieber, who recently came to Hungary and, as a German university professor, is likely to see and have experience with migration, that he should try to help third-country nationals stay in the country. Yeah, it could be a long-term solution. In this, as Congressman Schiffer has said, the United States has a very important role to play, who has managed to break down autocratic systems, but it has rarely been possible to leave, promote and build social relations there that allow them to remain viable countries and not to be forced to flee from them, but rather to provide them with the right environment as their country of origin. But just as Mr Schiffer also referred to it, the European Union has a particular responsibility in this too. This responsibility should be emphasised by Hungary, I think, in diplomatic negotiations. I don't think we'll be alone with that opinion. If anyone claims, ladies and gentlemen, that Hungary can handle migration in the world, or even its root cause, and the resulting flow of refugees, with an iron curtain, it can either lie or be a fool. My second argument, which is why I would urge a European solution in the long term - I would like to emphasise once again that in the short term Hungary as a nation state has something to do in this, but in the long term it is certain that a European solution is needed - and my other argument is that I think it would be worth avoiding Hungary becoming a conflicting state on this issue. Of course, we can't change the geopolitical situation; obviously and obviously, I'm not proposing this. But what we do know is that Hungary can address this issue as part of the European Union and not try to find a solution as an independent nation state. Because the fate of the conflicting states is never good. We could find Hungarian and foreign examples, perhaps start with the latter. My fellow Members know from history why, let us say, the East Roman Empire has supported the Crusades in the first place. Because it was very good for him that there were princes, Counties in the Holy Land that served as a buffer state, and they were standing in a constant war, not the East Roman Empire. That was very convenient for him. Therefore, he even supported these states financially, and in other ways, even with soldiers. But we could also mention Hungary's example of how good it was, let us say, during the Turkish occupation, when we stopped the military attacks on Hungary and defended Europe against it. Do we want to be in the same situation right now? Because if Hungary alone seeks to resolve this situation, it is certain that the Union will support it and the rest of the world. This is the most pleasant situation: to give Hungary some money - and we may agree with Mr Mirkóczki on this, as he said - to raise his Iron Curtain and to engage in a constant conflict with migrants. In fact, Europe has solved this problem, or at least part of this problem, so that it has otherwise become at the expense of Hungary. Now, that's not what I want. I would not urge a European solution because I am committed to the European Union! I urge you because this is good for Hungary, which is what is good for it, as I see it. In other things, I think it is worth thinking like a European and not merely with a nation-state head, but this is a matter of particular importance in this regard. I ask the Hungarian Government to think about what I have said, even though it is now a short-term solution to success - we do not - but when thinking about a long-term solution. I do not believe that this is news to him, many have said these thoughts, and I am sure the Minister of Foreign Affairs has heard this from many. However, I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that we try to address this very serious issue, the issue of migration, by remaining Europeans, while not giving up our attitude to solidarity and humanity requirements, and by trying to push for a solution that is favourable not only at the level of words but also in reality for Hungary. That is what I would ask of you, my fellow Members. However, we cannot support the bill before us, but since this debate goes far beyond the proposal before us, I would also like to ask for consideration of these ideas. Thank you very much.
u2015-07-06-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Gergely Kulcsár will be speaking from the Jobbik Group. A two-minute speech will then be possible. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[12.10]]
u2015-07-06-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, My fellow Jobbikos, Ádám Mirkóczki and Dániel Z. Kárpát have already expressed Jobbik's position on the bill before us; I wish to speak as a citizen of a city where there is a reception centre, a refugee camp. There are several cities like this in our country, and I am from Debrecen, so allow me to look at this debate with a Debrecen eye and comment on this bill. In the light of last week's events on Monday, the public opinion in the country may have changed, as we know, last Monday at the reception station in Debrecen, first in the area of the reception centre, then in the open street, there were riots, refugees started raging in the area of the reception centre, then, breaking the fence, smashing down the street, about 200 people flocked into the street, and armed with sticks, sticks, stones, concrete pieces attacked the cars, buses and the parking cars that were moving there. These events caused great outrage in Debrecen. The reaction from the liberal dwarf parties may have caused more indignation than that, but I would rather not discuss it one by one. What we are curious about, however, is what will happen to those criminals - because, in practice, those who have committed these crimes, these crimes, we can call them criminals. And don't say I'm generalizing. I do not say to the residents of all refugee camps that they are criminals - Jobbik has always distinguished between refugees and immigrants - but unfortunately, very, very few of the residents of the Debrecen refugee camp are real refugees who are persecuted at home and came from persecution at home and war. Among immigrants there was this group, this very large number of groups, this group of 200 who committed crimes on the streets of Debrecen, but we hear from the news that about eight people were interviewed. It wasn't that these people were immediately expelled from the country, but that virtually nothing was happening. I do not know what would have happened if groups of Hungarian people had committed these abuses, these crimes, but there should have been serious action here. Photos, video footage of the case, these criminals should have been expelled from the country. Yesterday, Jobbik organized a protest in the vicinity of the refugee camp. The rumours and the sounds, the terrors, which were about the protests of hatred by the representatives of the liberal dwarf parties mentioned earlier, were rebutted by the event itself. About 800 people came, the Debrecens were panicked, and despite the warm weather, they participated in a great number, and they believed that the Debrecen refugee camp, the reception centre, should be declared closed. It wasn't a hate protest, but most people want order on the streets of Debrecen, and the Debrecen people want peace. As early as last week, the members of the Fidesz Parliament, Lajos Kósa, László Pósán and László Tasó, also insisted that the refugee camp in Debrecen should be closed. I would also like to ask the Government's representative, Mr Károly Kontra, after the Fidesz Members want this, as Jobbik has been saying for years, to close the refugee camps in Hungary, what is the government's position. Would you like to do something? I think and Jobbik believes that refugee camps should be declared closed immediately, from Vámosszabadi to Balassagyarmat to Debrecen, before even more serious problems arise, before not only cars and trash cans are set on fire and cars are smashed by these immigrants, but also human lives are damaged. My question is whether the government is taking action on this. Please answer the Secretary of State. And what is very important about this is that in recent months, in recent years, there has been evidence that these refugee camps, these reception centres, have no place in a populated area. This is also a very important issue, and we call on the government, on behalf of the Debrecen, to begin preparations, to place reception centres, refugee camps outside a populated area, to close the camps within the inhabited area and to put them outside a populated area. This is the wish of the Debrecens, this is the wish of the Debrecens, this is the demand of the Debrecens, and this was emphasized at the demonstration yesterday by the citizens of the Civic City. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-06-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[For signal:]] Imre Vejkey asked for the floor from the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2015-07-06-57	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As a Christian Democrat, I must reject what our fellow Member Gergely Bárándy said, in particular that Hungary would not be a democratic state and that Hungary would not be a democracy, and on the other hand that the bill would be directly or indirectly racist and anti-Semitic. Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill does nothing more than protect Hungary and thus Europe from illegal intruders. As a matter of fact, I must conclude that at the last Council of Europe meeting, it confirmed in a resolution that Hungary is a democratic rule of law and that the democratic institutions in Hungary function well. Consequently, no monitoring or post-monitoring procedures are eligible or justified in relation to Hungary. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-58	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will continue with the proper speeches. From the Jobbik Group, Mr István Apáti is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-07-06-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform Mr Barándy that, whether he likes it or not, in this situation we are in, we are a buffer zone, not for the first time in our history, and not for the first time in history. There have been many times over the last thousand years that we have defended Europe's borders, and payment has appeared on the one hand in the Trianon peace dictatorship, and payment has appeared in the fact that during the 1956 Revolution and War of Independence, the freedom fighters have been abandoned, and we are constantly receiving late payments, because I do not know what they consider us to be, even though they would be grateful for the fact that the Hungarians have tried to contain this refugee flood with their blood, and now with their taxpayers' forints. The Greeks and Bulgarians have much more sense than the Hungarian liberals: they are violating, ignoring all European obligations, releasing these refugees and immigrants. And what do the Serbs in the EU do? They bring these immigrants to the Hungarian-Serbian border, organised from the Serbian-Montenegró border, with the help of the state, with the support of the Serbian police with the highest degree of gold, because they do not want to take up this problem, and the fact that the Albanians leave Kosovo in bulk is beneficial to the Serbs, because Kosovo is an important area for them, and they are pleased that ethnic proportions improve in this way. You know, dear liberals, the fact is that apart from Hungarian liberals, all European countries outside the European Union and the EU are pursuing their own well-thought-out interests, and any Western European liberals have more national self-consciousness, more national feelings than Hungarian liberals. We even got the worst out of liberals. Unfortunately, we're so bad luck. Tell me, once I would like to decipher this psychology and the mentality of why it is good for you - if nothing else - to approach it from the point of view of their loss of popularity - that you will always face the national interest at the front! So they say the opposite of what is not in the interests of Jobbik, not of Fidesz, not of any party, but of the Hungarian nation, the Hungarian people. If you're so concerned about these immigrants, then you really are doing what you're doing to be adopted, as Jimmy said:.. adopt me now and for all time......, Central African families, adopt Syrians, Afghans! I would like to remind you that your little liberals in Western Europe and America have triggered this emergency: the United States, referred to as the cradle of human rights, has raised a 300-mile wire fence on the American-Mexican border with a firing order, and they are even worse than you, because they shoot Mexicans not with rubber bullets, but with sharp bullets and sharp ammunition. So you're free to go over there and ask for advice, and you're free to complain about the terrible human rights situation in the United States government. Who destroyed Iraq? Who destroyed Afghanistan? Who broke the peace of the Middle East? Allies of the United States and great power. And, you know, the fact is that the governments of these countries are extremely mean because they rob these poor countries of their natural resources, of their natural resources, of their natural resources, of their natural resources, of their natural resources, of the Middle East as well as of Central Africa, of their profits, of the wealth of some large capital companies, of their own state, of the welfare of their own citizens, and of all the other damage, danger and risk they are putting on our backs. [[12.20]] They want that miserable ten million-dollar Hungary to suffer all the damage again. We are as poor as the mouse of the temple, and the treasure of Darius would not be enough to support so many people, so many immigrants. Let us be clear: we do not hate immigrants, we do not wish them anything bad, we do the minimum, we give them food, we give them shelter, but we want to do this for as short a time as possible, but we strongly ask ourselves that while it consumes serious billions not only in the form of European Union forints, but also in the form of Hungarian taxpayers' forints, they should allow themselves to attack the Hungarian police with hundreds of different calls for battle, attack peaceful Hungarian citizens, people's lives, physical integrity and property. It would be better to talk about how we can prepare ourselves, either individually or at Community level, for legitimate protection, for self-defense against these immigrant criminals - a group of immigrants and not all immigrants. So feel free to complain to your Western European allies, complain to the United States and look inside. I have one more question for you: how can it be that you, guided by your political interests, always hang different boards around their necks, if necessary, write out that I am also Jewish, if necessary, to write out that I am also a gypsy, if necessary, to write out that I am an immigrant. A sign can never be found, a sign that: I am Hungarian, too; this sign can never be found. Thank you. [[A round of applause in the ranks of Jobbik and the ruling parties. Zoltán Lukács: One does not rule out the other!]]
u2015-07-06-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech will be held by Congressman Gergely Bárándy. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-07-06-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honestly, if I hear the last two sentences, I'm not pressing a button, because that speech wasn't worthy of answering at all. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] but that too - but that too! - to be spoken in the Hungarian Parliament. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: This is always the case when the arguments run out! The president's ringing the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to read a sentence: after the riot in Debrecen, the raging may soon take place anywhere, dear Negro gentlemen, with a machete knife, and the rest. The above sentence was said by István Apáti, if all is true. [[István Apáti: That's right! I'll do it. Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the real racist speech! That's great. Congratulations. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] And you know, you, who are not accepted by even the European extreme right [[István Szávay: We do not accept them! Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] They're so out on the edge, they're just trying to come in a little bit. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] to get a little more votes. [[István Apáti intervenes.]] [[István Apáti intervenes.]] In my view, this is not a reason to lecture anyone on any ideological issue (István Apáti intervenes.) Or they're even trying to get the normal half of the country to join you. You know, my fellow Members, who are not racist and xenophobic, are not necessarily liberal, but normal. Thank you very much.
u2015-07-06-62	Thank you very much. A proper speech comes from the Jobbik Group, Mr President Novák. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-07-06-63	Hungary belongs to the Hungarians. Dear Parliament, I also wanted to discuss this item here with László Toroczkai, the mayor of Asotthalom, perhaps the worst hit by immigration, but László Toroczkai was also banned from here by László Kövér, from the House of Parliament and even from our office, so unfortunately we cannot agree with the mayor of the most affected settlement, let alone accompany or monitor this debate here. But in order to give some criticism to the left, I would like to join my fellow Member, István Apáti, in his proposal, and we do call on left-wing politicians to set an example, adopt such African, Negro immigrants bravely [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] because in the spirit of volunteering announced by Jobbik, in the year of volunteering, we also regularly do the charity work by setting an example, only we accept, say, csángós in the framework of the Csángó cross-parent programme. But feel free, if that is the most important thing for you, do so and set an example, but do not beat nettles with the hands of other Hungarian people. [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] Because of the scarcity of time, I cannot now provide such a comprehensive outlook, and I cannot now examine what is the responsibility of America, for example, on the issue of immigration in Europe due to the wars it has started, or even on the other means and responsibilities of immigration with secret service tools and African rumours. I can't give you such a flash-forward at this very short time that, let's say, we could look at how many refugees the Vatican is taking in, while we can obviously hear the statements from the Pope. These are, I think, talkative figures. However, one thing is certain: we must look at the Hungarian interest, and let me direct attention to the demographic dimension, that more immigrants have come to Hungary in recent months than the number of children born in Hungary, than the number of Hungarian citizens, and I was not so strict as to talk only about Hungarian people and Hungarian births, even though if Gypsies, for example, were registered as minorities and ethnicities under Hungarian laws, the fertility rate that a Hungarian woman has to face is well below 1 when she has no children in Hungary on average. If this alone were not enough problems, even with minorities, the indicator is only around 1.4, and the fertility rate of Hungarian women is well below 1; if that were not enough, then there is still the issue of immigration. That is why I ask you to face it, that the Hungarians are in essence halving from generation to generation, while as an economic refugee, one million Hungarians of active age went to the West, and because of internal migration, villages and villages are being depopulated, the Hungarian countryside is being depopulated. These are the problems that we have to face, and the answer is not that we are doing propaganda in the Hungarian language disguised as a national consultation in order to win the sympathy of voters, we need action and action here. That is why we demand, for example, that the Hungarian soldiers be sent to the Hungarian border instead of to fight against the Islamic State, because the news is now, for example, that 2,300 people have been detained by the police this weekend, but they no longer tell us that this detention means that they will be confirmed, who can be questioned. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And then you're free to go. This must also be changed; that the news does not say what is the consequence of these glorious detentions, these police successes, the consequence of which László Toroczkai's freedom to go free after the arrest of thousands of immigrants, they are free to commit crimes, and they can continue to do what not only in Debrecen, but all over, especially at the ends, in the border settlements, in Asotthalom, which would have been good for László Toroczkai to tell you, too, indirectly, what László Kövér banned, banned in the person of László Toroczkai, this is the indignity, which I also think it should be said that despite all this: ceterum censeo immigrant crime does exist. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-06-64	Thank you very much. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The consolidated debate is closed. I'll ask him who he wants to speak to on behalf of the government. [[On the sign of Péter Szijjártó:]] Foreign Minister Péter Szijjártó responds to what has been said. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-07-06-65	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We have heard quite broad opinions here today on an issue that is one of the most serious challenges not only for our country but also for Europe as a whole for the coming years. Perhaps it is no exaggeration to say that the European Union has never faced as many and more serious challenges since the end of the Second World War, and one of the most serious of these challenges is indeed the issue of immigration, which is already on such a scale that the use of the concept of modern-day migration is not exaggerating. Ladies and gentlemen, We agree that we need a common European solution, because we are not facing a Hungarian challenge, not a Hungarian problem, but we are talking about a challenge that is extremely serious for the whole of Europe, including the European Union. We therefore agree with all those who stressed in the debate that a solution at European level was needed. This is why the last meeting of the European Council was particularly important, where the Heads of State and Government of the European Union have taken a number of decisions to address the immigration challenge, and in many cases Hungarian interests prevaild in these decisions, as well as the Hungarian position. [[12.30]] First of all, I would like to say that, according to the position of the Hungarian Government, the solution to this challenge remains not within the territory of the European Union, but outside the territory of the European Union. We therefore believe that all the billions of euros that the European Union spends on development from European taxpayers, including the Hungarian taxpayers' money, should be used as a condition from now on to make use of these development resources to reduce immigration pressure on Europe as a result of both political and economic conditions in the issuing countries and in the source countries. Applying this conditioning is one of the keys to solving this challenge, looking to the future. Secondly, I would like to point out here to you that the European Union has finally recognised that immigration pressure is coming on Europe not only through the Mediterranean, but also through the Balkan route. And, indeed, Hungary is under the greatest immigration pressure in terms of migratory pressure through the Balkan route. Obviously, it is no coincidence that 71 871 illegal border crossings were recorded by the Hungarian authorities until last night this year, and 71 287 of them were recorded on the border between Hungary and Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, In this spirit, the European Council's decision to hold a conference in Budapest during the autumn, even before the Valletta conference, which is expected to take place in November, will deal specifically with the responses and answers to the immigration pressure on the Balkan route. Details of this conference are still under discussion. We had a fellow Member, Mr Schiffer, who spoke about the importance of stability in the Middle East and the North African region. We agree with this, because geopolitical processes clearly show the daily significance of the lack of stability in the Middle East and North Africa for the daily life of the European Union. That is why I would like to tell Mr Group leader that, of course, the Hungarian Government supports all international efforts to promote stability in the Middle East and North Africa. This is why, among other things, we believe that Parliament has made a wise decision when it decided with 150 Hungarian soldiers to help fight the terrorist organisation called the Islamic State, and that is why we also support the successful conclusion of all international negotiations in the Middle East that promote stability. However, I must correct some of his statements to Mr Schiffer, if I may use that term. Hungary has not given up any EU obligations. The fact is that we are in compliance with all EU standards, we are in compliance with all our obligations in the European Union. Accordingly, we also respect our obligations in Dublin. At the same time, we strongly dispute that all the people, all the illegal immigrants who are now being sent back to us from the EU countries, should really be sent back to us. We are debating this because we think that, since these people must have entered the territory of another EU Member State before they arrived in Hungary, they should be sent back to those countries. Another question is why we are here as a country of return. Because we are fulfilling all our obligations in the European Union, we are registering, among other things, all those who otherwise come to Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that for Hungary this year more than HUF 15 billion in extra expenditure is the immigration pressure that is weighing on us. Compared to this, the European Commission Commissioner for Migration has informed us that the European Commission can provide Hungary with some EUR 8 million in support of additional tasks this year. A number of opinions were delivered here at the plenary session on the temporary safety closure. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention with respect to the following. If you want to come from Serbia to Hungary, you can do it now, and you can do it in the future in a law-abiding, or legal way. If someone from Serbia wants to come to Hungary and has decent intentions, he will go to an open border post and hand over his passport for treatment, and the border guard will handle it and then come to Hungary. This is a law-abiding way of entering the territory of Hungary. So, by building a temporary security border closure, in Hungarian, a fence on the green border, we take away the possibility of illegal, i.e. illegal people wanting to come to Hungary in a way that is contrary to the law, from breaking the law. In other words, we are opening border crossing points so that decent, law-abiding people can come to Hungary as easily as possible, but we are building a fence to take this opportunity away from people who want to come to Hungary in violation of the law, or at least prevent it. Therefore, the 175 kilometers of temporary safety closure will of course be built, and its construction will soon be started, at several points, at stages, in areas where immigration pressure is most powerful in Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to draw your attention to the question of the so-called hotspots, which has also emerged at the last European Council. These points should be set up in front countries, perhaps outside the European Union, as decided by the European Council. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Government of Hungary will in no way contribute to the creation of any hotspot in Hungary by the European Union. We believe that the question of whether a person is a political refugee or an economic immigrant should happen both in time and geographically as soon as possible. The fact is that every 100 asylum applications in Hungary today are confirmed at the end by the fact that it was a legitimate request. So more than 90 people who submit asylum applications, and then find out that they are actually economic immigrants, illegal immigrants, are exactly undermining the credibility of the institution that is so important not only in Hungary but also in Europe. So, as has been the case with political refugees, Hungary does provide shelter, but we cannot and do not intend to comply with this type of pressure generated by economic immigration. We will therefore protect Hungary and, of course, as a country with a Schengen border, we will also protect Europe, the European Union, from illegal immigration. This is the duty of the Government of Hungary, and we intend to continue to comply with this obligation. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-07-06-66	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Decisions will take place today. It follows now that the Hungarian Development Bank, which was adopted on 23 June 2015 by the Parliament, sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic, is XX of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank Company. the legislative committee report submitted to the law amending law and the debate on the amendment proposal. The text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature is T/4824/8, letter from the President of the Republic T/4824/9. Number 2 is available on the IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-07-06-67	Mr President, Dear House, At its meeting on 2 July 2015, the Legislative Committee discussed the 20th of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank Company. T/4824. Bill No. 1. On June 23, 2015, the Parliament adopted the Act under discussion, which was sent back by President of the Republic on June 29, 2015 to Parliament for consideration. [[12.40]] The reason for the return is that T/5017, adopted by the Parliament on 23 June 2015 and signed by the President of the Republic on 26 June 2015, was T/5017. No XX of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank Company The Act amending the Law has already been supplemented by a 23rd Law. In the event of the signature, publication and entry into force of both laws, the provisions of Article 23. It would contain a clause which violates the requirement of norm. The proposal amends T/4824 in line with the comments of the President of the Republic. No 23 has been submitted and adopted by law to the Court of Justice of the European Union and to the Court of Justice of the European Union and to the Court of Justice of the European Union and to the Court of Justice of the European Union. Instead of §24. In addition, Section XX of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank Company complements Section XX. Law. In view of this, the Committee adopted the summarised amendment and the summary report by 21 votes in favour and 10 votes against. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, whether he wishes to speak now or at the end of the debate. [[Dr. Zoltán Kovács: End of debate.]] At the end of the debate. Thank you very much. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. First, I give the floor to Mr András Schiffer of the LMP Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2015-07-06-69	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, What the President of the Republic objects to is once again a story that shows the inability of full legislation. It is about two laws running parallel to the Hungarian Development Bank, and this was not unique, because at the same time the Parliament discussed two proposals on the same law in connection with the transport laws and other matters at the same time. The President's objection that this numbering error in itself - which the Legislative Committee has clearly been able to remedy easily - seriously endangers public security cannot be stressed enough. This attitude and this pace simply basically undermines people's belief in legal certainty and causes unpredictableness. It is no coincidence that LMP had already put a package of predictable laws on Parliament's table three years ago in order to enable everyone in this country to plan ahead in a predictable legislative environment - simple citizens, entrepreneurs and investors. Such a predictable package of laws could prevent two parallel motions from being put on the agenda at the same time on the same bill. With regard to the amendment of the MFB Act itself, I would like to continue to emphasise two things. The Hungarian Development Bank was practically a paying place in the previous government cycles, i.e. during the fake left-wing governments. This was no different after 2010. Therefore, LMP continues to demand that, in the case of the Hungarian Development Bank, the concept of banking secrets is simply omitted. There are no bank secrets regarding the MFB, as the Hungarian Development Bank does not perform traditional commercial banking activities before 2010 or since then. Everything the Hungarian Development Bank is doing is simply the same public asset management and political step as what, say, the State Asset Manager is doing. Therefore, if the government has nothing to hide, if there is nothing to hide from the Hungarian government at any time, then the steps of the Hungarian Development Bank cannot simply be hidden behind bank secrets. It is incomprehensible why the proposal is only about the Quaestor-harmed, why it is only about the Quaestor transaction, why it cannot be made public with the same momentum that, let's say, the Hungarian Development Bank had a business relationship with Buda-Cash or Hungária or other previously fallen brokerage houses. The other proposal, which the LMP has already made in recent weeks, is that if and when a financial institution, whether it is a bank or a brokerage house, who has been removed from it in the previous months, who has released deposits from it, should be public. Let's see who, in the case of brokerage houses that have fallen over the last few months, has saved a large amount of property, if any, in the form of inside information. We're not gonna let that happen. Our firm position remains that we cannot merely legislate for Quaestor. If they are merely a law on the Quaestor case, it raises the suspicion that the government has, for some reason, made a particular escape in this case. The second question is that if and if the Hungarian Development Bank is needed, the Hungarian Development Bank is not a commercial bank, therefore the institution of banking secrets is not needed. If the government has nothing to hide, not only the Quaestor transaction, but all information about the Hungarian Development Bank will be released from the bank secrets. It is necessary to put an end to the practice that was already true before 2010 and it has been true since 2010 that through the Hungarian Development Bank, they have been stealing the common wealth under the cover of bank secrets, hiding behind bank secrets, looting the country, farming irresponsiblely. In this, the current government is a faithful continuation of the governments before 2010. Therefore, we do not accept a partial solution. It is necessary to measure the same standards for each broker scandal, to measure equal standards for victims of different broker scandals, and to abolish the institution of bank secrets for the Hungarian Development Bank once and for all. Thank you very much.
u2015-07-06-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Szakács of the MSZP Group will take the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-07-06-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, I think it is not the only problem that legal certainty is seriously compromised in this one-eye legislation, since three of these proposals have been discussed in this House, of which this is currently being discussed. When, in the other two, we modified the powers of the MFB, the head of the Prime Minister's Office, its powers within the MFB, its regulation and the law on state assets, we saw that if János Lázár asked me to quote the text of the law, he would give an order and point out to a company, then the MFB would buy it, and then the state would have it. I do not think that it affects legal certainty either. On the other hand, since this will only give the Minister the opportunity by regulation, we will not legislate about it, so that is not the case here in this House. But to come to this amendment: the Quaestor Sub-Committee - a short name for the Government Action Sub-Committee, which examines which government measures could lead to the Quaestor scandal taking place - is a committee without ambition that has met three times so far. On one occasion, we received this draft legislation, and the President of the Committee asked us to sign it, because otherwise, this is not the only case that can be exempted from bank secrecy. Everyone knows this is about a case, the ETO Park case, how Quaestor could get money from the MFB in this case. I always ask which party would have shouted the loudest if ETO Győri had not received a developmental resource for sport in 2009. It was probably supposed to be Fidesz. When Lajos Szűcs brought this proposal to us, he was able to justify it with this one thing. And when we asked to extend the scope of the information that we could learn, he said that this committee had no authority to do so. Of course, this amendment was not tabled by the committee, but by us individual representatives. We could have made any proposal, even brought about a constitutional amendment to this House. But this, of course, did not interest Lajos Szűcs, so I put forward another proposal in which I proposed that, wherever there is public money - whether it be the National Fund of Earth, whether it be the EU's proposals, whether it be the MFB, whatever it is where there is only a part of the European Union - those data can be requested and made known as data of public interest. The committee did not support this proposal, referring to Mr Kövér's letter that the committees no longer present similar proposals at the extraordinary session. The committee did not even appreciate the fact that I said that I believe that the issue of corruption, the availability of data of public interest and the direction of public funds will be current even in September next year. [[12.50]] Even during the September session, it will be up-to-date. This was not accepted by the Fidesz majority Committee on Budgets, which voted against this proposal. I will continue to say that when it comes to a case, you should go to the secret manager. If you want to get to know the full reality, then let the Quaestor Committee meet, and do not make it seem that this individual committee had to be set up so that no one else would suggest that it would not be led by anyone else, and that it would not be possible for others to come to the conclusions that many people are thinking about, but very few people can prove, which is why this work is hindered. This committee has met three times in four months, which rejects everything that has no jurisdiction over anything, and wants to investigate this one case, the case of ETO Park, which is clearly its purpose. I asked that if I made the gesture to support this, they would also support my proposal: to support that everything where there is public money should be accessible as data of public interest, be required as data of public interest and follow the direction of public money flows. This was not supported by the committee. Once again, I have to quote the words of President Fat to you, and I will not do much: unfortunately, we have much more experience than we have left. Therefore, we believe that this committee is slowly closing down, and you do not want to reveal the maladministration that has happened here. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-07-06-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr János Volner is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-07-06-73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have repeatedly stated that Fidesz should have made it clear in 2010 which sectors of the economy it intends to intervene in and what kind of asset system it intends to intervene in. That hasn't happened to this day. Once again, we are looking at a bill where, in several economic sectors, the State-owned Development Bank can acquire a direct stake and have a virtually controlling function. The question is, why didn't Fidesz announce this earlier? I suspect that it would have been an unpleasant surprise for several economic sectors, hundreds of thousands of people in 2010, if it had been found that Fidesz wanted to nationalise, at least for a temporary period, the players in these economic sectors, to use these economic sectors to strengthen its own moonyard, its own vassal system, so that these privileges would be fidesz owners. What am I thinking here, fellow Members? Here the bill allows the Hungarian Development Bank to acquire property in several companies as a temporary and permanent acquisition of ownership. With the laws, Fidesz has made sure that the management of these companies is hidden from the public in the light of bank secrets, and that it is not possible to track the rolling forints that we have seen several times before to Fidesz's nearby economic organizations or to roll to the direct environment of the Prime Minister in large quantities and large numbers. What are we thinking when, for example, brokerage companies are named here by the law, how can they acquire ownership of the Hungarian Development Bank? The question should be asked why Fidesz had one brokerage company of all brokerage firms in order to make this brokerage firm five times the investor protection threshold. Why was this only important for a brokerage company? I wonder why it is up to now that while Parliament's parties Jobbik and LMP have declared that neither politicians nor politicians' family members nor their direct economic interests have taken out any money at the last minute, while there is one parliamentary group, Fidesz, which has failed to make this statement to this day. I also think it is very important to say that no such statement has been made by the management of the Hungarian National Bank. At a time when there is a suspicion as to why only one broker company had to raise the investor protection threshold fivefold, why only one broker company would have the government help investors with taxpayers' money, then this question should be answered as to the reasons why Fidesz would continue to hide these data. And I think it is very important that, while Viktor Orbán, who is not yet in the Chamber, spoke earlier about not liking sly parties, then I, fellow Members, ask you who is sneaking around in the Quaestor case. Who fails to sign the declaration that neither he nor his economic interests nor his family members have taken money out of Quaestor during the last period, in the knowledge of his criminal responsibility? Is this party called Fidesz? My fellow Members, if someone is sneaking around on this issue, this is Fidesz, we have to be very honest about this. And when, in this way, with this bill, they try to grant the Hungarian Development Bank the rights under which they can freely, without parliamentary control, hide public funds from taxpayers and hide behind bank secrets with the country's money, of course Jobbik cannot vote for this proposal. There are positive elements of this proposal that we would have supported, but as usual, according to their own legislative strategy, what you do in every case is that if there is a positive element, there is a part of the bill confirming the Fidesz moonyards, the economic background yard. And what happens in this case is that in this way, practically with manual control, without any democratic control, without any control, the Hungarian Development Bank can gründe any economic company, so it can pay the owners virtually whatever amount of money it wants and then operate these systems at its convenience. It is obvious that Jobbik does not contribute to this legislation. And once again, we tell Viktor Orbán that if he wishes to wash off the Fidesz stamp that he is sneaking on the Quaestor case, and he has something to hide because several of his politicians, leaders or their companies were interested in Quaestor, and on the basis of the information in the last few moments, money was saved from it, then even today at this parliamentary meeting, on this last sitting, the Fidesz parliamentary group has the opportunity to comment on this issue in the light of its criminal liability. But also note that if it comes to the Jobbik government in 2018, these statements will be enforced by law, and we will see if anyone who has made a statement has actually taken any money out of Quaestor. And if, knowing his criminal responsibility, he made a false statement, we will prosecute everyone. I suspect that this threat will keep the Fidesz from clarifying his position on this matter, like other parties. That's why you're sneaking around, which is why you're keeping secrets. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-06-74	Thank you very much, Congressman. I will ask my fellow Members if anyone else wishes to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I will ask Mr Zoltán Kovács, State Secretary, if he wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yes, he does. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
u2015-07-06-75	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Technically, Parliament conducted the debate that it had already held. The Legislative Committee was all a very short proposal, which led the President of the Republic to return the original law to Parliament. It was a paragraph description. There's nothing else to talk about here. This has been corrected by the House, and you can confirm that with your vote today. Compared to this, my fellow Members have taken up once again the debate that we have already had, which was not necessary, since its outcome is already known. In view of this, the legislative committee's proposal is supported by the government. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-07-06-76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform my fellow Members that decisions will be taken today. We will now continue our work with decisions. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats and check that their cards have been properly placed in the voting machine. Please pay special attention to the president. [[13.00]] The Hungarian Development Bank, which was adopted on 23 June 2015 by the Parliament on the day of the meeting, sent back for consideration by the President of the Republic, is the company XX of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank Company. Decision on the proposal for a legislative amendment to the Act amending Law and the final vote. Text of the Act sent to the President of the Republic for signature T/4824/8. Letter from the President of the Republic to T/4824/9. The Parliament's IT network is accessible to all. T/4824/11. and T/4824/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that, under the provisions of the Rules of the House, there is no possibility to maintain a proposal amending the decision and to request a separate vote. First, we decide on an amendment to the Legislative Committee. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4824/11. Amendment No 3 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment by 130 votes in favour, 34 votes against and 25 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the 20th of 2001 on the Hungarian Development Bank Company. a law on the amendment of the law has not been published with the amendments which have just been adopted. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the law by 127 votes in favour, 64 against and without abstention. Dear Parliament, Next up is XXXIII. Olympic Games and the XVII. H/5422 on support for the intention to tender Paralympic Games in 2024 in Budapest. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment H/5422/4. H/5422/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would remind you that, according to our decision last week, the motion is being discussed by Parliament with a derogation from the house rules. Dear Parliament, I welcome the outstanding Hungarian Olympics in the history of the Olympic Games and Paralympic Games and the president and other officials of the Hungarian Olympic Committee and the Paralympic Committee. With special respect, I welcome Mr Zsolt Borkai, President of the Hungarian Olympic Committee, who was appointed by Mr. Sitting in box No 1 Mr. György Kárpáti, multiple Olympic champion, national athlete as senior Olympician Mr. István Tarlós Mayor and all of our guests, all those who have participated in the initiative of the proposal for a resolution and I hope that it will also be implemented successfully. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts H/5422/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly with 153 votes in favour of the summary amendment [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It adopted 29 votes against and 8 abstentions. [[Zoltán Lukács: Should we applaud the amendment?]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament... [[Noise.]] My fellow Members, I want you to listen to me, okay? I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/5422 accepts it. The text of the proposal for a decision, as amended by the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended resolution proposal with 151 votes, 33 votes and 4 abstentions. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]] Thank you, my dear guests, for attending the meeting of the Parliament. [[Intercoms, including István Apáti: Let them stay if they want.]] After this positive decision, we hope that the National Assembly will also benefit from the successful implementation of the tender, and Hungary will be enriched with new sports successes. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the Jobbik.]] T/5416 on the establishment of a temporary security border closure and on the amendment of migration-related laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/5416/11. and a summary report by T/5416/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would remind you that, according to our decision last week, the bill will be discussed in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. First, we will decide on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5416/11. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 152 votes in favour, 36 votes against and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5416. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the amended bill by 151 votes in favour, 42 against and without abstentions. A final vote on the draft law on the establishment and publication of the Convention on the Statute of a European public body will follow. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/5290 will accept it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament's bill [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]] By 192 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. The final vote of the bill between the Government of Hungary and the United Nations Children's Fund on the publication of an agreement on the establishment of a global service centre for the United Nations Children's Fund will follow. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/5348 accepts it. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 193 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows that T/5145 on the amendment of certain laws in the context of the reduction of state management benefits. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. [[13.10]] T/5145/5, and T/5145/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment 2. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by József Tobias and his fellow Members. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 67 votes in favour, 126 against and without abstention. As the Parliament has not retained the amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5145/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 124 votes in favour, 37 against and 32 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5145/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 126 votes in favour, 35 against and 31 abstentions. It follows now that certain laws necessary for the implementation of the e-card as well as Act L of 2013 amending Act L on the Electronic Information Security of State and Local Government Bodies are being implemented. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4857/9. and a summary report by T/4857/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4857/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 151 votes in favour, 16 against and 26 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that T/4857/11. In accordance with the fundamental provisions of the Single Proposal No 6 of the European Parliament and of the Council, The adoption of paragraph 1 of § 1 requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4857/11. The provision of a single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provision of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 150 votes in favour, 13 against and 30 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4857/11. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 151 votes in favour, 42 against and without abstentions. The XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly follows in a row. T/5033. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/5033/7 and T/5033/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5033/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 158 votes in favour, 34 against and 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to T/5033.9. The cardinality provision of the single proposal set out the scope of the provisions requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5033/9. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 156 votes in favour, 34 against and 2 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5033/9. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 155 votes in favour, 35 against and 2 abstentions. It is now up to T/5051 on the amendments to the law on the development and deployment of electronic communications services and infrastructure, on the accessibility of the legislative framework. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/5051/6, and its summary report T/5051/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the Act, the Government initiated a separate vote on point 2 and point 4 of the summary amendment proposal. First we decide on these, and then we decide on the further points of the summary amendment proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of the fact that, in point 2 of the summarised amendment proposal, Article 2 of the bill states that: Paragraph 1 of Act C of 2003 on electronic communications 22. with a sub-heading and 22/A. The additional section of the section requires a qualified majority decision, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. In the section requiring a qualified majority in point 2 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee shall draw up a legislative proposal. The Commission proposes to amend paragraph 1 (1). At the request of the government, we will decide separately. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of this proposal requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts the section of point 2 of the summary amendment that requires a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the qualified majority of the amendment point by 156 votes in favour, 31 against and 5 abstentions. In the section requiring a simple majority in point 2 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee shall draw up a legislative proposal in accordance with Article 2. It proposes to amend paragraphs 2 to 5. At the request of the government, we will decide separately. I ask the honourable Parliament whether it accepts the part of point 2 of the summary amendment that requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament accepted the simple majority of the amendment point by 181 votes in favour, 6 against and 5 abstentions. [[13.20]] In point 4 of the proposed amendment, the Committee adopted a new amendment to the bill. The Commission proposes to add a new section to this section. At the request of the government, we will decide separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 4 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment point by 152 votes in favour, 37 votes in favour and 4 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee will accept T/5051/6. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 176 votes in favour, 12 votes in favour and 4 abstentions. It is now the final vote. Please note that T/5051/8. Under the cardinality provision of the single proposal No 2 The adoption of paragraph 1 of § 1 requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5051/8. The provision of a single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provision of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 152 votes in favour, 37 votes in favour and 4 abstentions. We are now deciding on the parts of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5051/8. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the provisions requiring a simple majority by 174 votes in favour, 12 votes in favour and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The 2011 CLXXV on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations follows. Act CLXXXI of 2011 on the judicial records of civil society organisations and related procedural rules. T/5128 on the amendment of the Act Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/5128/4 and T/5128/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5128/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 127 votes in favour, 63 votes in favour and 1 abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5128/6. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 124 votes in favour, 64 votes in favour and 1 abstention. Next up is T/5052 on the amendment of certain social and child protection laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/5052/11 and T/5052/12. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 3 and 4. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Lajos Korózs and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not maintain the amendment proposal by 43 votes in favour, 121 votes in favour and 24 abstentions. Amendment 4 is also proposed by Lajos Korózs and Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 123 votes in favour and no abstentions. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. Pursuant to paragraph 2 of Section 2 of the draft amendment, the MSZP Group initiated a separate vote on point 9 of the summary amendment. That is what we will decide first, and then we will decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. In point 9 of the summary amendment proposal, the committee shall draw up Articles 14 and 15 of the bill. The EESC recommends that the provisions of Section 4 be deleted. We'll decide at the request of the MSZP. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts point 9 of the summarised amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amendment by 189 votes to none, with one abstention. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5052/11. The additional points of the proposed amendment are set out in the table below. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the remaining points of the summary amendment by 124 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour and 60 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5052/13. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 126 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour and 60 abstentions. We now have T/4883 on basic health care. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4883/14. and T/4883/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the Rules of the House 48th. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 9 and 10 and Jobbik Group Nos 3, 4 and 5. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 9 is proposed by István Tukacs. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 5. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 41 votes in favour, 148 votes in favour and no abstentions. In Amendment 5, we decide on the motion of György Lukács and Lajos Rig. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 29 votes in favour, 161 votes in favour and no abstentions. I am voting on Amendment 10, which is also the motion of Mr István Tukacs. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 41 votes in favour, 150 votes in favour and no abstentions. [[13.30]] Amendment 3 is proposed by György László Lukács and Lajos Rig. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 27 votes in favour, 157 against and 5 abstentions. I am now putting to the vote Amendment No 4, which is the motion of György Lukács and Lajos Rig. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 26 votes in favour, 158 against and 7 abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4883/14. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 152 votes in favour, 38 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4883/16. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament's single proposal by 151 votes to 38, with no abstentions Ikül accepted it. It follows the XXXIV of 1991 on the organisation of gambling. T/5239. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. The summation of the legislative committee's proposal for amendment T/5239/8 and its summary report T/5239/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 3, Jobbik's group proposed to maintain Amendment 3. That's what we'll decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by MEPs Zsolt Egyed and György Szilágyi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 30 votes in favour, 158 against and 3 abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5239/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 125 votes in favour, 65 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5239/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 126 votes in favour, 65 against and without abstention. T/4767 on the amendment of certain laws on the regulation of higher education. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4767/23 and T/4767/24. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the MSZP Group proposed to maintain amendments 5, 6 and 7 and Jobbik Group 13, 14 and 15. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 5 is proposed by István Hiller. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment with 31 votes in favour, 151 against and 5 abstentions. Amendment 6 is proposed by István Hiller and Ágnes Kunhalmi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 64 votes in favour, 121 against and 1 abstention. It follows the decision of Amendment No 7, which is also the motion of István Hiller and Ágnes Kunhalmi. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 63 votes in favour, 125 against and no abstentions. Amendment 13 is proposed by Dóra Dúró and Gergely Farkas. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 28 votes in favour, 128 against and 32 abstentions. Amendment 14 is also proposed by Dóra Dúró and Gergely Farkas. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 31 votes in favour, 130 against and 27 abstentions. Amendment 15 is also proposed by Dóra Dúró and Gergely Farkas. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not hold the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 126 against and 3 abstentions. As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4767/23. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 122 votes in favour, 38 against and 28 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4767/25. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 123 votes in favour, 65 against and without abstentions. It follows now that Act I of 2004 on Sport is amended and CLXXV of 2011 on the right of association, public benefit status and the functioning and support of civil society organisations. T/5143 amending Act No. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/5143/8. T/5143/9. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now it's time for the decisions. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed the continuation of Amendment No 2 and Jobbik Group's amendment No 3. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment No 2 was tabled by István Ikotity, and by Mr György Szilágyi, Member No. 3, with the same content, which are set out in points 5 and 6 of the Commission's report. The factions have initiated the continuation of both motions, so we will decide on this with a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it maintains these proposals. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendments by 33 votes in favour, 127 against and 27 abstentions. [[13.40]] As the Parliament did not hold up an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5143/8. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 123 votes to 61, and 5 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5143/10. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal by 125 yeses, 64 votes not, without abstention. Here comes the 1997 CLV on consumer protection. Act XXXIV of 2004 on small and medium-sized enterprises and support for their development T/4820. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/4820/6, and T/4820/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/4820/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 150 votes, 10 votes and 27 abstentions. The final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/4820/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 180 votes in favour, 4 votes in favour and 4 votes in favour. Next up is T/5142 on the transformation of the national accreditation system. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/5142/6 and T/5142/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We will decide on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5142/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 123 yes, 64 votes not, without abstention. The final vote follows. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5142/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 122 yeses, 64 votes not, without abstention. Next up is the XXXIII of 2015 on the development of facilities for the implementation of the World Swimming, Waterball, Jumper, Artificial Swimming and Open Water Championships in Budapest. T/5419. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/5419/3 - T/5419/4 - T/5419/4 - T/5419-4 - T/5419-4 - T/5419-3 - T/5419-3 - T/5419-3 - T/5419-3 - T/5419-3 - T/5419-3 - T/5419-3 - T/5419-3 - T/5419-3 - T/5419-3 - T/5419-3 - T/5419-3 - T/5419-3 - T/5419-3 - T/5419-3 - T/5419-3 - T/5419-3 - T/5419-3 - T/5419-3 - T/5419-3 - T/5419-3 - T/5419-3 I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would remind you that, according to our decision last week, the bill will be discussed by Parliament with a derogation from house rules. We will decide on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5419/3. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 147 votes, 13 votes and 28 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts T/5419. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended bill by 146 votes, 14 votes against and 26 abstentions. The 2011 CXII on the right of information self-determination and freedom of information follows. Act T/5404 on the amendment of certain other laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/5404/14. T/5404/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I remind you that, according to our decision last week, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. We will decide on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether the Legislative Committee accepts T/5404/14. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 123 yes, 64 votes not, without abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether T/5404 accepts it. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the amended bill 123 yes, 66 not by vote, without abstention. It follows that H/4505 on the adoption of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2014 Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it accepts H/4505. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal for a resolution by 158 affirmative votes, 24 negative votes and 6 abstentions. Following a series of information on the professional activities of the State Audit Office in 2014 and a report on the adoption of the report entitled H/5035 on the operation of the institution for the National Assembly. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. I salute President László Domokos. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether H/5035 will accept it. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the proposal for a resolution 125 yes, 65 votes not, without abstention. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work by making personal proposals. First, the president and members of the Supervisory Board of the National Bank of Hungary will be elected, followed by the election of a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank. Subsequently, the elected officials shall take the oath and the oath papers shall be signed. The election of the chairman and members of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank follows. Allow me to welcome Dr. Ferenc Papcsák, László Madarasz, Dr. András Gábor Szényei, Dr. László Nyikos, Dr. Gusztáv Báger and all our guests. The Economic Committee preparing the election of the president and members of the Supervisory Board of the National Bank of Hungary has heard the candidates and the 2013 CXXXIX on the National Bank of Hungary. Mr. Ferenc Papcsák, acting under the powers conferred by Law 6 and 11 to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board; Mr. László Madarász, Mr. Gábor András Szényei and Mr. László Nyikos, Mr. [[13.50]] The President of the Parliament made a proposal for a resolution on personal proposals S/5501. I'm going to the National Assembly. The biography of the candidates was available to all of you from the website. Dear Parliament, First, we decide on the President of the Supervisory Board. The chairman and the members of the Supervisory Board shall be elected by the Parliament, with the majority of the Members of Parliament present, for the duration of the term of office of the Parliament. The Parliament shall decide on the proposal for a resolution without debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will elect Dr. Ferenc Papcsák as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Dr. Ferenc Papcsák was elected by the Parliament by 126 votes in favour, 60 against and without abstention by the Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank. It is now up to the election of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank. The National Assembly shall decide on the election of the members of the Supervisory Board at the same time, within the framework of a group vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament whether it elects the members of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank László Madarász, Dr. Gábor András Szényei and Dr. László Nyikos. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Mr László Madarasz, Dr. Gábor Szényei András and Dr. László Nyikos to the members of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank by 148 votes, 37 votes against and without abstentions. It is now up to the election of a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank. [[Noise.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if I may have your attention, we are almost at the end of the votes. The Economic Committee preparing for the election of a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank has heard the candidate, and in his proposal, acting under the authority of the Hungarian National Bank Act, Dr. Gusztáv Báger proposes to elect him as a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank. On this, the Speaker of Parliament S/5499. The Parliament has tabled a proposal for a resolution. The candidate's biography was available to everyone from the Parliament's website. The member of the Monetary Council shall be elected by Parliament for six years with the vote of the majority of the Members of Parliament present. The Parliament shall decide on the proposal for a resolution without debate. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament whether he will elect Mr. Gusztáv Báger as a member of the Monetary Council of the National Bank of Hungary. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament elected Dr. Gusztáv Báger as member of the Monetary Council of the National Bank of Hungary with 125 votes in favour, 60 votes against and 5 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Now the solemn oath of elected officials and the signature of the oaths. First, the oath of the chairman and then the members of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank. I would ask the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, the members of the Monetary Council, and the members of the Monetary Council, to come to the centre of the Chamber, and I would ask the honourable group leaders to congratulate each and every one of them, once they have been elected and the oath papers have been signed. Thank you for your attention and your help. First, the oath of the chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank. I ask Dr. Ferenc Papcsák to take his oath, and I ask you to read the words of the oath, notary Lajos Szűcs. [[The people in this room stand up. The takers will enter the center of the hall. Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2015-07-06-77	I, Ferenc Papcsák, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law; I retain its legislation and retain it with others; I exercise my office as chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God. [[He's crucifixing. Applause.]]
u2015-07-06-78	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The members of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank will now take the oath. I would like to ask Mr László Madarasz, Dr. Gábor Szényei András and Dr. László Nyikos to take their oath and ask Mr. Lajos Szűcs to read the text of the oath. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2015-07-06-79	Me, László Madarasz/Dr. Gábor Szényei András/dr. László Nyikos I vow to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law; I will keep its legislation and keep it with others; I will exercise my position as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Hungarian National Bank for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2015-07-06-80	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now take the oath of a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank. I ask Dr. Gustav Báger to take his oath, and I ask you to read the words of the oath, notary Lajos Szűcs. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs reads the words of the oath.]]
u2015-07-06-81	I, Gusztáv Báger, pledge to be faithful to Hungary and its Fundamental Law; I retain its legislation and retain it with others; I exercise my position as a member of the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank for the benefit of the Hungarian nation. So help me God.
u2015-07-06-82	Thank you very much. Now I'm going to ask the Parliament to sit down. I'm gonna need all the people who took the oath to sign the oath papers. I ask Mr. István Tiba to prepare the oath papers for signature, and the elected Dr. Ferenc Papcsák, László Madarász, Dr. András Gábor Szényei, Dr. László Nyikos and Dr. Gusztáv Báger, I ask you to sign the oath papers. Thank you very much. Allow me, on behalf of Parliament and myself, to congratulate the chairman and members of the Supervisory Board of the National Bank of Hungary and the member of the Monetary Council on the election of their members. Thank you very much. [[14.00]] Now there is an opportunity to congratulate the elected officials who took the oath. In view of the fact that the factions have not proposed exchanges of members from the Commission, no further personal decisions will be taken today. We continue our work with the interpellations. [[It's a short break.]] Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. Your hand can reach the smallest settlement? It's an address. Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor; and I would like to ask my fellow Members to allow you to express your question of interpellation without delay. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2015-07-06-83	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, First of all, I would like to welcome to the box the representative of the newcomer parents and the present educators. They deserve a round of applause. On 4 June 2015, the newcomer parents contacted the Minister with the following request:. In connection with the appointment of the director of the Újlétai Kiss Zoltán Primary School, we would like to meet you in person to present our letter of protest, the 318 signatures collected in a few days in this small village with 1100 souls. We parents see that the change of director only complicates in political and non-professional terms, even though it is in the professional interest to maintain the quality of our school. We cannot stand by and watch the mayor supported by Fidesz destroy two decades of work that our director and faculty have been doing to everyone's satisfaction for more than twenty years. We trust in you, in your wisdom, to ask for your help, because here you have made politics out of the change of director. We are confident that you will give us an appointment to meet either in Parliament or in the Ministry. We are ready to go to Budapest at any time. We are looking forward to your reply as soon as possible. With all due respect to your parents' representatives, Csilla Nagy. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. On June 18, 2015, the representatives of the parents personally handed over the petition to the Minister, which contained the will of the 1100 people settlement. As you have done so many times in the past, neither the interests of the faculty nor the parents nor the children have been taken into account. Faced with an entire settlement, the politically supported candidate was appointed. You personally promised, Minister and Secretary of State, that you would intervene and look into the matter. And in order to illustrate that he is not alone, I would like to list some settlements: Püspökladány, Karacs Ferenc High School; Kecskemét, Bányai Júlia High School; Kiskunfélegyháza, József Attila Consolidated Primary School; Baja, Máté Bereczki Food Agricultural Secondary School [[Interview from the ranks of the MSZP: Shame!]] ; Budapest, XV. district, Neptun Primary School; Budapest, XXII. district, Antal Budai Nagy High School; Újleta, Zoltán Kiss Primary School; Hajdúböszörmény, Sunbeam Kindergarten; three schools and high schools of Balassagyarmat; Szigetújfalu, Primary School. For this reason, I ask the Secretary of State: how much is your word worth? When will the opinion of the faculty, the parents, a settlement matter? Are Hungarian children important to you? How long will political loyalty be the primary aspect of appointments? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-07-06-84	Thank you very much. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-07-06-85	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, With the representatives of the school, as she said, the meeting was held here in Parliament, they met with Minister Balog here, met with me, received their letter, and received the reply to this letter, not personally from Minister, but from the Secretary of State for Public Education, in which she informed them about the situation and the relevant legislation. Thus, of course, the answer to the New Year's petition was also given, which can be received by everyone who is there among the recipients, especially the sender of the letter. At the same time, allow me, for some thought, to refer to the general procedure of the head of public education institutions. The 2011 CXC on national public education. The Act regulates in detail the terms and conditions of the institution manager's mandate, the path of selection, the number of persons required to be included in the opinion procedure, the time limit for these, as well as the necessary qualifications and qualifications requirements. All this is to ensure the guarantee elements of the procedure, of the legality and merits of the decision. I did not hear any of these being questioned by a Member in her speech. The law requires that the maintenance body, the institution's employee community, the parent's organisation, the local government, the district of education and the head of the maintenance institution are required to obtain the opinion of the head of the teaching body, the head of the institution before the decision or opinion of the head of the head of the public education institution is taken and its mandate withdrawn. I would like to draw attention here to the fact that these opinions procedures, with which the decision is responsible, are obviously also eligible for the decision, but at the same time it is important to have a prior consultation procedure and also in this case. In the Újlétai Kiss Zoltán Primary School, two applications were submitted, the former director and a new applicant submitted their application. Both candidates met the conditions laid down by law, and the tender procedure was fully lawful, on the basis of a statement by the President of the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre. I did not hear - I referred to it earlier - that the Congresswoman would have said that there would have been an infringement anywhere during the procedure. Obviously, there are winners and losers in every procedure. Obviously, this loser has an interest, but there was no violation of the law, and you couldn't say it here either. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] It is important to emphasise that the opinion of those entitled to express their opinion does not bind the decision-maker and that it is possible to review the decision under the law in the event of the unlawful nature of the proceedings. So if anyone feels that there has been a violation of the law, that there has been no provision in the legislation for a person, or that the facts he has told in the application have not been properly classified, then one can claim the truth of each person in the court, but I have not heard that such a procedure has been initiated. [[14.10]] I would like to inform you that, with the information received, the Ministry of Human Resources has made its own decision on the future head of the institution from among the candidates with a valid application, in order to ensure the future functioning and development of the public education institution concerned. I ask you to accept my answer, because it is clear from this that this procedure has also been carried out in full compliance with the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-86	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély if she will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2015-07-06-87	Mr. President. I can't accept the answer because the law has been adapted to the appointments. [[Behind the MSZP fraction, Anita Heringes and Márta Demeter are stretched a banner on which the inscription is: -If you are a minister in Hungary, do you not have to keep your word? That's not what the Minister promised the New Year's parents.]] You know, I've listened to several times over the last few years, and they keep saying in some answers that they are individual representatives of the districts. László Tasó didn't dare come to the parents' meeting as an individual representative, Mr. Secretary of State. And the other one told me that they sent the parents a letter. Do you know when Mrs. Czunyi sent the letter of reply? He sent it when he found out we were gonna interpell. Do you know what they call this in the country? I call it spineless and insolent! [[It's grumpy. Applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]] They answer the parents when they know we're going to ask a question. The way you're acting is outrageous, Mr. Secretary. I can't accept the answer.
u2015-07-06-88	Thank you very much. With all due respect, I would ask the Member not to use a certain phrase in her next speech. And I warn the two Members that they have chosen the way in which the illustration was not asked for permission in advance or that it has not been announced. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes in favour, 36 against and without abstentions. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade:.The opening of the East is also a political product without content for the Fidesz government? It's an address. Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-07-06-89	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, On 1 April, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán made one of the greatest of recent diplomatic mistakes in Hungary when he announced our intention to join the Asian Investment Bank for Infrastructure on the day the deadline expired. The bank is set up by Chinese leadership with USD 100 billion of capital in order to provide economic assistance to Asian countries The importance of the bank is measured by the International Monetary Fund, which is likely to be an important competitor of the 21st EDF. In the century, unless he takes over his role entirely. As a founding member of the bank, applicants were expected until 1 April. As a founding member outside the emerging states of Asia, all the major countries of Europe, including Germany, France and Italy, and Britain, are present. In fact, although the US has conducted a strong counter- campaign, even Poland with a famous Euro-Atlantic commitment is among its founding members. I think that's enough to show the importance of the organization. The application is, of course, possible after the deadline, but only as a single member. For decades, this country has had a great opportunity. Following our involvement in KGST, IMF or EU, we could now, together with great powers, have taken the lead of an organization defining the next century. If Hungary had had been able to control its fate in the last decades, this was it. And all of this was ruined by the dilettantism of the government, which resulted in Viktor Orbán announcing our accession as a simple member in Astana one day late, but with great media attention. If the government's goal was to get into a more awkward situation, it struck two birds with one stone: we missed a historic opportunity and managed to make our delay public. It may be better not to mention that at the time of the announcement, Viktor Orbán even confused the name of the organization with the Japanese-based competitor of AIIB, the Asian Development Bank. So we're out of ALIB leadership, but at least we've pissed off the U.S. against us. This describes the state of the Hungarian State. Jobbik finds it very joyful if Fidesz, taking over the elements of our program, confirms the correctness of our theory about the Eastern opening and finally tries to find a new path instead of licking our feet in the west over the last 25 years. However, in view of such blunders, a person has unwittingly raised some questions. Dear Minister, Why wasn't the government able to prepare according to the gravity of the case? Where does the Bem wharf stand professionally, how can you simply overlook such an extremely important time? Or is the eastern opening of Jobbik only being pursued at rhetorical level without any real content, making this country ridiculous in Asia? In addition to the opening of the east, would you like to do the western closing with your dilettantism? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[In the notary seat, Nándor Gúr will be replaced by Loránt Hegedűs.]]
u2015-07-06-90	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Peter Szijjártó, who responds to what has been said. Here you go, Minister.
u2015-07-06-91	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. Allow me, for some thought, to present the results of the Eastern Opening Strategy so far with you and the plenary session of Parliament. The essence of the Eastern opening strategy is to make the Hungarian external economic structure balanced from a geographical point of view, that is to say, in addition to our traditional European Euroatlantic markets, we include our eastern external economic expansion among the sources of Hungarian economic growth. I would like to tell you that last year, in the framework of the Eastern Opening Strategy, we were able to show a 7 percent increase in exports to China, resulting in the fact that Hungarian exports to China were never as high as last year. We increased Hungarian exports to Japan by 18 percent, to Korea by 12 percent and to Vietnam by 41 percent, just to mention the most important markets for Eastern opening. Honourable Congressman, You obviously know that the Eastern Opening Strategy is a rather serious factor in the war in Ukraine, as well as the joint EU restrictive measures adopted for it and the Russian embargo action taken in response to it. In addition, we must, of course, do everything we can to obtain additional markets for Hungarian products and services east of us. Of course, our Eastern opening strategy focuses on developing economic relations with China. In this respect, let me note that the objective of Huawei is to serve all its European exports from here, Hungary, the regional centre strengthens our role, as well as the fact that the 9th most powerful commercial bank in the world, China's strongest commercial bank, Bank of China, has decided to bring its regional centre to Hungary. In addition, China is the tourist centre for cooperation in Central Europe, from 1 May there is a direct flight between Beijing and Budapest, and the regional centre of Confucius Institutes is also located in Hungary. In addition - speaking of infrastructure - I would like to say that you are absolutely right that our cooperation with China in the field of infrastructure development can greatly undermine Hungarian external economic performance and, through this, Hungarian economic performance. Therefore, it is important that, about a month ago, when China's Foreign Minister visited Budapest, Hungary was the first to sign the bilateral agreement on a zone, a road, a Chinese logistics and commercial strategy, and the preparation of the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line is proceeding at a good pace in order to ensure that Chinese goods arriving in Greek ports actually reach Western Europe through Hungary and Serbia. The Tripartite Government Working Group will meet on 16 July in Budapest. In connection with the question of our connection to the Asian Infrastructure Development Bank, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade assessed the impact of our accession to the Bank, and it was finally decided that Hungary would join the Asian Infrastructure Development Bank as a normal member. The Hungarian government's intention to do so has already been communicated by the head of the national treasury to the financial institution, and when the establishment of the bank comes to the stage that these issues are already on the agenda, the founding members can decide whether Hungary's application for admission as a regular member will be approved. Here we can have good hopes, as I have already indicated this to the Chinese Foreign Minister, who has given their support to all Hungarian intentions that allow regional cooperation with Asia. I would therefore like to point out to the Member that, of course, we are aware of the importance of the matter, which is why we have proposed to the Government a request for membership, which has decided to join us as a regular member, and we ask for our admission and our accession to this bank. Thank you very much for raising the subject here at the plenary session of Parliament. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.20]]
u2015-07-06-92	Thank you very much, Minister. I will ask Congressman Márton Gyöngyösi if he will accept the ministerial answer.
u2015-07-06-93	Dear Minister, I can't accept your answer. Of course, I understand that if a mistake is made, a wrong decision is made by the government, then there are two possible ways: either they are trying to base the decision, or they are trying to explain the inexplicable why this has happened, and for what noble purposes they have made this wrong decision. Instead, you can safely admit your mistake, admit that during the egg-dancing procession, you broke all the eggs that got in your way during the east opening. You know as well as I do, because you have an economics degree, a higher education degree, that if we are simply members or founding members of a company, the difference between the two is heaven and earth. The latter gives us the opportunity to influence the objectives and strategies of an institution. We just missed that, thanks to you and your dilettantism. I can't accept your answer. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-06-94	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Congressman didn't accept the Minister's answer. I'm asking you, the Parliament, if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the ministerial reply by 103 votes in favour, 22 against and 3 abstentions. Congresswoman Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, notary of the National Assembly, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of National Economy. It's an address. I give you the floor. Here you go, notary.
u2015-07-06-95	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, According to the LMP, we must finally face the housing crisis. Today, hundreds of thousands of families in Hungary are affected by some form of housing poverty. But it is also a big problem that many people are unable to move to apartments of sufficient size. Anyone who does not have millions of capital or hundreds of thousands of HUF's income cannot obtain an independent apartment. Private property and market rentals are priceless, and municipal social housing is barely available. If a young person cannot move away from home, it can be a serious obstacle to further education, employment, and especially the establishment of a family. Young people can't stand on their own feet, start their own lives. In such a situation, it is not surprising that tens and hundreds of thousands of young people are going abroad. Therefore, the State has a serious responsibility to assist young people and families in accessing housing with appropriate support and programmes. We're talking about people who don't have millions of dollars in savings, they don't have a hundred grand in income. The state should also help those who live overnight without saving. New housing would also be urgently needed because of the quality renewal of the housing stock. The housing stock is steadily deteriorating, and this issue will be a serious problem in a few years. If we consider that an apartment has a life span of 100 years, it would be necessary to build a new housing equivalent to 1 percent of the housing stock each year. This means that about 40,000 new apartments should be built every year. Compared to this, last year, only over 8 thousand apartments were built in 2014, with only less than 300 apartments. Apartment building also has significant economic benefits, creating jobs. There are other tools. LMP has previously urged that vacant private apartments be included in the system. With state aid and legal guarantees, these apartments could also be rented, which would require the setting up of a public housing agency. Dear Secretary of State, According to the LMP, the launch of a national rental program cannot be delayed. We need to start building houses. It is also necessary to take advantage of vacant private apartments. It is also necessary to provide housing for workers who live in poverty, who cannot save millions, let alone save, but do not save the deposit of a tenant. I would like to ask you when the government will finally help these young people, families, when the housing crisis will be lifted, when a national rental program will be launched. Thank you for your attention.
u2015-07-06-96	Thank you very much. State Secretary András Tállai responds to this interpellation. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-07-06-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I think, and the government also thought, when it started working in 2010 in this area, that the most important task in the crisis is not to build public housing, public housing, but to help people in distress; as a first step, those who took out mortgage loans on hundreds of thousands of people whose stakes were to lose their homes and lose everything. The first task, therefore, I think, was to help the government to help people in difficulties with foreign currency credit. The way to help is known. There is no foreign currency credit anymore, these foreign currency loans have now been HUFed, so many families have escaped from having to sacrifice their entire family's livelihoods because of this decision. At the same time, the government has taken many, many steps to tighten eviction, but also many other steps that employers had the opportunity to provide their employees with an interest-free loan for repayment. It is very important that a family can keep their apartment, and it is also important to know whether they can maintain their apartment, whether they can pay their rent. It is well known that during the time of the socialists, one of the highest energy charges had to be paid to families in Europe. The government also tried to help us with the cost reduction tool, so families managed to save hundreds of billions of forints a year. In addition, energy modernisation programmes have been launched, window and window changes to reduce energy costs for families. In addition, he launched the National Asset Management system, and the state bought 25,000 homes for families in total trouble, thus providing housing for 110,000 people. This programme will continue in 2016-2017 with the purchase of another 10 thousand apartments. But the favourable economic policy, which has also improved the income situation for families, has already affected the impact, as in 2014 the number of housing sales has increased to over 100,000. This is expected to reach 140 to 150 thousand in 2015. The government introduced the new family home creation program, which started on 1 July, which now allows the purchase of used homes and can also be used in the case of the expansion of used homes. Perhaps this is where the government's decision joins your rental-building program, when they say that vacant housing should be taken into account and possibly involved in the public housing scheme. That's, I think, a thought-provoking point. We believe that, after the difficulties caused by the crisis, it is possible in the long term to think about what the state's involvement in the housing programme could be like. I would say that this is not a practice in Hungary. In Hungary, families and people usually own the apartments themselves. Therefore, by direct and indirect means, the government is doing its best to solve housing problems for families. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-07-06-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask Congresswoman if she will accept the Secretary of State's answer.
u2015-07-06-99	Thank you very much. I can't accept the answer. The Secretary of State began his reply by helping foreign exchange creditors, we believe that they would have been able to really help foreign exchange lenders if the forint had not been made at the market rate, but at the price at which the Hungarian National Bank obtained it. In this way, it will not actually help many foreign exchange lenders. You also mentioned the eviction moratorium, which we know ended in the spring. However, you promised the banks that there would be no new foreign exchange credentials, so it is expected that they will not reinstate the eviction moratorium. [[14.30]] You could have mentioned the CSOK, Mr. Secretary, but we know that this is not enough. To get an apartment, you have to have millions of self-esteem, they can only help people who are very small compared to the value of the apartment. Thank you very much.
u2015-07-06-100	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply. I'll ask the National Assembly if they'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote. The result is not shown on the display.]] I ask the technical staff to allow the vote. I ask a moment of patience from my fellow Members, the system is frozen at the moment. That happens sometimes. [[For signal:]] Go! So please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes to 21, without abstention. Congressman Gábor Varga, representative of Fidesz [[Some of the representatives leave the meeting room.]] , he submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources:. What is the possibility of a new family home-building discount? It's an address. Congressman Gábor Varga has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-07-06-101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, One of the key issues of our society's sustainable existence is whether we are able to ensure and enhance the positive demographic changes that have started in recent years. Can we strengthen the safety net that can provide security for families, children and new generations growing up? In 2014, 2800 more children were born, 1714 more married and 0.4 thousand points decreased natural weight loss compared to previous years. The improvement continues this year. The right-wing government will continue its work in 2010, focusing on families as of 2014. In 2010, he restored the family tax relief for children abolished by socialist governments, education support and preferential housing loans, among his first actions. The reduction of personal income tax and the reduction of overhead costs also benefit families and citizens. In recent years, the baby care fee, the ged and the family tax relief have increased steadily in real terms. Next year it will continue to decline, family tax incentives and family support will continue to grow. Several families will also be affected by the tax relief of marriage. We're going to continue with the extra and the reduction of the rent. The new family home-building discount, which will start from 1 July, will provide another opportunity to encourage family formation and support families. Dear Secretary of State, In this regard, I am asking you about the possibility of a new family home-building discount, which is the most important information about the use of CSOK. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-102	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the question raised will be Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-07-06-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Thank you for your suggestions and for presenting the positive changes that have taken place in Hungary over the past year and a half. Indeed, the Hungarian families now have children in a way that goes beyond the pre-crisis level, and more and more children are born. The demographic low was around 2010-11, when a woman of childbearing age had an average of 1.21 children, now it is 1.41, so this figure is noticeably higher. And as a result, thousands of children were born more than before. And these children also need a nursery, and for this nursery, the successor of the socpol, the benefit of families, the CSOK can be of considerable help to everyone else. The former Socpol was wiped out by the former socialist government. This was not the only anti-family move, since it also abolished the family-type tax system and eliminated the child until the age of three. In addition, the Socpol was released. As of 2012, the civil government introduced housing aid, which could be used to purchase new real estate or to build new real estate. However, in the last week, as of 1 July 2015, the family's home-building discount has started, which is much more widely able to help families acquire a larger home. It is now available to families with one child, one extension of the rightful circle. In addition, it can be used not only for the purchase of new, but also for the expansion of existing apartments. It is also an extension condition to allow as many people as possible to benefit from this startup that the size of the property has decreased by 10-10 square meters in each category. So, whatever energy-grade, whatever location it is, small real estate can be purchased with a home-building discount by families today. We're hoping more people can access it. The amount, which is perhaps the most important, is that from HUF 500 000 to HUF 3 million 250 000, the amount that these families can receive as non-refundable grants. There are plenty of other rooms available for children. We can split the discount by two age categories. There is a benefit that can be taken into account regardless of age, which applies to children who already exist, since they can benefit from this benefit from the 24th week of pregnancy. In 40 years, however, not only for children who have been born or conceived, but also for planned children, families can benefit from home-building benefits, two more can be born to families, and at that time they will receive this discount in advance form and can use it in an advanced form. In the case of a child, four years are available, and in the case of two children, eight years are available to give birth to these intended children. There are maximum limits for which no more expensive homes can be purchased, this means larger than 160 square meters, so it is not available for the purchase of a larger apartment. Apartment with a price of more than 350 thousand HUF is also not available, as these would mean a much higher level of demand than the needs of middle-class families. In the capital, the maximum real estate value, to which this discount is available, this discount of more than HUF 3 million is HUF 35 million, but in the case of a more disadvantaged rural village, where the property prices are obviously lower, this maximum limit is HUF 16 million. This also follows the logic of providing assistance for reasonable housing needs. We hope that this will further increase the desire of families to create, create and buy homes, and this will be accompanied by children's participation, and everyone can have a family and have children in decent housing conditions. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-104	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Congressman Gábor Varga if he will accept the State Secretary's reply.
u2015-07-06-105	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Thank you, of course I accept your answer. If there is a national strategy issue in which all my fellow Members in the horseshoe must agree, it is a nation strategy issue in which natural reproduction, helping children to be born, must be a natural thing, since the desired and actual number of children should be close to each other, which is still quite far apart at the moment. Last week, Katalin Novák, State Secretary for Family and Youth Policy, visited my district, in the 5th district of Fejér County, in one of her dearest and most beautiful settlements in Nagykarácsony, where she introduced the CSOK, the family home creation discount to István Halász. I understand that young people responded very positively to this announcement and to the presentation of the CSOK, according to the county paper survey, at least 40,000 people were interested. So, of course, this programme can be successful. Thank you and, of course, I accept Mr Secretary of State's reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. Hungarian Congressman Zoltán... [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] I'm sorry, I raised two. Member István Hiller, representative of the MSZP, vice-president of the Parliament, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Human Resources with the title "Address at the end of the academic year." István Hiller, Vice President, has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. [[14.40]]
u2015-07-06-107	Thank you very much. Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Your Honour, Secretary of State. Three and a half years ago, the so-called National Public Education Act was created and adopted, and two and a half years ago, the establishment of the Institutional Maintenance Centre named after Klebelsberg, nationalised the former municipalized Hungarian public education system. In my opinion, this time frame is already capable of drawing a first-rate balance on changes by completing another academic year; I am not saying that it is a final balance, but a primary one. In my opinion, the KLIK, the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre, is a waterhead that weighs heavily on Hungarian public education and is more of a problem than a solution. There is no experience to date that the centre, which, according to its imaginary task, manages all public education institutions in the country from one office building in Budapest, would have resulted in an increase in quality or even a maintenance of standards. Instead, it is characterized by inaccuracies, disorder, poor management, and virtually total loss of authority. To be clear, they're afraid of him, but they don't respect him. The whole system is characterised by the destruction of the working textbook market, and then the construction of a system - the textbook supply operated by Kello - which, according to press reports, resulted in a loss of 140 million HUF out of a quarter billion profit. Similarly, the management of vocational training has been removed from the supervision of the CLIK. What if it's not a silent confession to failure? I think it is a bad way to narrow down high school seats, because the idea is wrong that high-quality vocational training, which is necessary in addition to all discussions, must be strengthened at the expense of high school education. On this basis, I respectfully ask the Secretary of State how he regards the quality of the operation of the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre in the light of the last two full academic years. In how many state-owned secondary institutions will high school education be discontinued in Hungary? Finally, please respond to the claim that Kello's activities resulted in a loss of HUF 140 million instead of previous profits. Thank you very much for answering. Mr. President, thank you.
u2015-07-06-108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The answer to the question raised will be Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-07-06-109	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, There have obviously been problems in the system of public education before, and I think that the KLIK itself has had an important task in recent years, that there have been sporadic problems in several parts of the country, and that, at municipal level, there may have been no solution, these problems have now become known nationwide, because there was a place where this could be asked, there was no need to ask a specific question for 3,200 maintenance people whether there is a shortage or a problem in one or another of the issues of public education, but there is now a central unit that sees each problem and has the possibility of solving each problem. The various issues, the different news and information that have been raised in the last two years have brought up existing problems, only now there has been an organizational system that is able to remedy them, and we trust that it can do so year after year. The situation of KLIK is positive in such a way that it has been created with a continuous increase in teacher wages in Hungary, as this also has a significant impact on the prestige of the entire public education system, the commitment of the employees there, the possibility of hiring a quality workforce, with a 30-40 percent increase in the wages of teachers. As of September this year, there will be further wage increases, all teachers will earn more, and now the teachers, but not teachers, will be paid by teachers and careers from 1 September this year, and the employees of KLIK have received their salaries from KLIK each year. Let us add that in the case of the municipal reserve, many municipalities, even without their own fault, were in such a difficult situation that they even had problems with paying the wages of teachers. This is now unthinkable in the case of public-service educators working there, and KLIK makes these payments every month from month to month. This year, perhaps the biggest change in the life of KLIK is the transfer of the vocational training system to the Ministry of National Economy. This causes various changes locally, which is what the Member pointed out: they were previously mixed institutions, vocational secondary schools and high schools, and they now operate in the new system, not together, but alongside two separate maintainers. At the same time, with a change of law, we have created the possibility that a part of the current, if I remember correctly, 401 sites where high school training is taking place will obviously be transferred from KLIK to the Ministry of National Economy, and NGM may also be a high school maintainer where appropriate, and if there is a mixed institution where there is one, a teaching body, a building, then it should also be possible to continue this operation, but in each case where there has been a secondary education, secondary education will continue. I would like to reject entirely the accusations concerning the suppression of this kind of maturity with the government. If you look at the graduation figures for the last year and the graduation figures for this year, you can see that there was also a small increase among the graduates who graduated from high school. So this government does support the maturity value of the input system of higher education by transforming its input requirements and making them more serious, and more have applied for a higher level of graduation than a year or two before. So it is also clear that the accusations made against the government are not real. It was an important transformation in the life of the KLIK, that obviously the districts and the county department have much more tasks and privileges. It is important that for the heads of institutions - precisely because of the difficulties in covering the expenditure in rem - there is now the possibility of using a treasury card, which will result in easier spending within their framework. It is important that the textbooks are now given free of charge to some of the students: in the first three years everyone, this means 400,000 students, and 300,000 are entitled to regular child protection support, which is why they get it. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] One of the consequences of this decrease in textbook prices is, for example, the loss of income that the Member is talking about, but we believe that it is not necessary to make a profit in the distribution of textbooks, but to give students a quality textbook. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Vice-President István Hiller if he will accept the State Secretary's answer.
u2015-07-06-111	Mr President, I do not accept the answer, and I would like to explain that. I cannot accept the answer, because I continue to think that the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Center's task is to control all Hungarian public education institutions in Hungary from an office building in Budapest, and it is illusory, and the theoretical idea that this will work in no way is supported by recent years. Administration is going on and it's not raising standards, they're writing reports to each other about how good it is, while the situation has not improved, but they can't keep up with the standards they've taken over. And the fact that high school seats in the countryside are the main thing I cannot understand is that access to knowledge is being expanded. They're not expanding it, they're narrowing it down, and as they are, I'm not accepting the answer. Thank you very much.
u2015-07-06-112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, Vice-President István Hiller did not accept the State Secretary's reply. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 97 votes to 21, with no abstentions. Representative Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, has submitted an interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture:. The government's rural policy has brought chaos, mistrust and decline in agriculture? It's an address. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2015-07-06-113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Experts predict that this year there will be far more modest results in agriculture than is necessary for the development of the sector. The data show that the positive balance that you have mentioned so many times over the past two years has been largely due to the weather, and that almost exclusively there has been an increase in industrial raw materials production. In view of the whole national economy, it seems that agriculture did not grow, nor even stagnated, but fell by 11,6 percent. This is a country in which 4 percent of GDP comes from agriculture, where the government says that there is a need to devote serious force to agriculture, but it cannot be allowed. [[14.50]] It is certain that we can see the result of many of the shortcomings of agriculture and of the government's earth policy creating an uncertain situation. Among these shortcomings, there is a need to mention the obsolete agritechnics, which, if the government put more emphasis on it, would also be able to compensate for adverse weather losses. Another serious problem is the lack of irrigation, which is increasingly needed in addition to global warming because of the delay in dry periods. In our country, hundreds of thousands of hectares would be irrigated, and at present we can only solve this on a few thousand hectares. The reduction of fees clearly did not bring the expected results, and the national irrigation strategy, which has been promised for years, has not been anywhere. I find it amazing that our country struggled with drought three weeks after the roofing in the year of the flood of the century. It's not normal operation, especially knowing that every tool, every opportunity to change that. It is also a serious problem that the government's land policy has caused such uncertainty among farmers who have been farming state land for many years that they do not want to make improvements. For with you, anyone can be a loser, no matter how properly and honestly you do your job, hold hundreds of sheep for decades, they will be able to destroy you at any time. If political pressure and violence did not deprive so many farmers of their livelihoods, but rewarded those who actually put me on the table, then this uncertainty would also cease and dare to invest. This problem is closely linked to the fact that there has been a long-standing imbalance in agriculture that has tilted the balance on the side of crop production, instead of the 50:50 desired, farming has lost 70:30 per cent to agriculture. Here the lack of a VAT rate of 5% is worth mentioning, which, unfortunately, has only been possible in very narrow cases so far by the government. I ask the Secretary of State to finally admit that their rural policy, their state wage application policy, has failed, and we expect that reviews will take place immediately. I find it amazing that they are destroying complete existences and families with this reckless rural policy. I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-06-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer to the question raised will be Mr Bitay Márton Örs, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-07-06-115	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, if I may, I'd like to split my response to your interpellation into two parts. On the one hand, he mentioned in the interpellation - although he didn't say it, but in the cast - why we didn't listen to the people in the countryside and why we didn't listen to their voice. I would like to remind you of the outcome of the 2014 parliamentary elections, which has clearly demonstrated that we are not only listening to the words of the people in the countryside, but also counting on the government, counting on the candidates of the Fidesz-KDNP. So I don't see any justification for what you're saying, while, if any, you, where you started in the constituency, weren't expecting you, because you didn't win this constituency. The other thing I would like to suggest to you, Mr President, is that you have mentioned that in agriculture, landowners have been in a state of uncertainty for years: honourable Member, the fact is that those who have been renting large plants for years may be able to see the situation well. I just don't know whose side the Jobbik is on right now, because up until now, they've been saying that I want to support not large farms, but family farmers. Now you stand up in Parliament and ask us why large enterprises that used to lease land by the Socialists feel insecure. [[By the MDF!]] They feel insecure, my dear Member, because they are not preferred either by rural policy or by the programme for farmers. This is proved by the fact that 80% of the winners of the program are family farmers, natural persons, and that we have now almost twelvefold the number of people using the state land. As regards the part of your interpellation concerning the agricultural economy, you mention that we are not doing well, and this year is much worse than the previous one. I'd like to draw your attention to data, or, let me put it this way, information. Peter-Pál, the harvest has just begun. Talking about the closing of the farming year in agriculture in July about what this year will be like, a pretty good one for you. We can't tell you that yet, but I can tell you numbers as to how we stand or what has happened since 2010 at the moment. However, I would like to ask you for an example, if you will allow me to give you a single number that is typical of agriculture and has not improved since 2010. If you can give me a number like that, I'd like to thank you, because right now, I don't see anything like that, which is measurable statistical data, or you can read it from any other official statement. And I'm sorry to say this, but I think it's an infantile attitude that if something good happens, it's the result of the weather, and if something bad happens, it's the government's job. No, Congressman, this system is a little more complicated. He didn't quote the numbers of the Central Statistical Office well either, because he said 70:30 percent in terms of arable crops and livestock farming, although this is 63:37 and I don't want to ride on the numbers, but here a few percent is a huge difference, and if I add that we started from a worse situation in 2010, there is a very big difference. You have acknowledged - and thank you very much for that - that irrigation costs have decreased substantially. And I admit that obviously much more land should and could be watered; this is what we are working on, and I hope that soon the number you have said for the hundred thousand hectares will be real. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that agricultural investments have increased by 53.5 percent between 2010 and 2014, and this is also a rather impressive number, and, let's say, from 2015 onwards, the "More jobs in agriculture!" By 2020, the sector will receive more than HUF 210 billion, and HUF 210 billion will be available. I ask that we do not take stock of the agricultural situation this year, because we are not here, and I ask you kindly to accept my answer. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-116	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask Mr Zoltán Magyar to accept the State Secretary's reply. Here you go.
u2015-07-06-117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I cannot accept your answer. Once again, the difference between us has come out very well, which is about the future of the countryside, the idea that you are interested in agriculture for the 10-15 thousand families that you call farmers, small family farmers. On the other hand, when we talk about the countryside and agriculture, we are talking about the eight million people and their opportunities who live in the Hungarian countryside, and who are indeed left out of these developments, which they are always so proud of. We've been talking about irrigability for the fifth year now, we can hear promises from week to week, and no progress has been made. The contrast between large farms and small farms was once again false from your mouth, Mr. Secretary of State. Of course, Jobbik has always been on the side of local family farmers, and this will continue to be the case in the future. The only problem is that this is exactly what they've ruined with the land lease applications we're demanding to review here week after week. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-06-118	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The congressman didn't accept the Secretary of State's answer. I'm asking you if you'll accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 102 votes to 29, with no abstentions. István Ikotity and R. Benedek Sallai, representatives of LMP [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] an interpellation was submitted to the Minister of Agriculture:. This also serves the small estates? It's an address. Congressman Sallai R. Benedek will be presenting the text of the interpellation. Here you go. [[Noise. Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2015-07-06-119	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I'm especially glad to be able to speak after this interpellation. "I would like to ask you immediately," said he, "that we should say numbers which have not improved in agriculture," "please tell me that...
u2015-07-06-120	Congressman, interpellation is a tied genre, you have no right to talk about anything else. [[Defiance and interrogation in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I'm just talking about what you wrote. On that condition, I can give you the floor. [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-121	Mr. President, there's a noise. I can't hear what you're saying. Can you repeat that?
u2015-07-06-122	Congressman, you of all people should know that once in your life you read the house rules, that interpellation is a tied genre, you can only read what you have submitted. [[It's constant noise.]]
u2015-07-06-123	I understand, Mr. President, thank you very much, I just can't hear you, because the Fidesz faction is extremely naughty... [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] It'd be better if they held up signs.
u2015-07-06-124	Congressman, time's up. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-125	So, in recent years, NFA has used tens of thousands of hectares of land, mostly arable land and pasture [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] One-year contracts. Although they account for only a small proportion of the total state land assets, they can still be of great importance to local farmers in some settlements. For a period of one year, the Ministry regularly provided about 30 thousand hectares, i.e. half a balaton area, in the written text. According to the government's promise, the state land will be delivered to small and medium-sized farmers on 30-40 hectares, by tender, in long-term leases. [[15.00]] What does that mean in practice? I would obviously like to know, Mr State Secretary, that, for the 2014 marketing year, Blikk has acquired the list of public land users who have been granted one year of exploitation outside the tender by way of a lawsuit... - but how can data containing the list of state land and its users allocated without a tender deviate from this practice? Let me give you some figures from the question: Agro Kft. in South Balaton. For Milk Kft. received 1287 hectares of land without application. On telekgerendás without tender 700 hectares of land, the Fruit Garden Zrt. In Nagykanizsán 452 hectares of land, Kalocsa Agricultural Zrt. 1335 hectares of land without application, 1600 hectares of land in Bábolna, Backó Gazdasági Termelő Kft. 804 acres of land. [[A statement from the ruling parties: Is that all you need?]] These data reveal interesting details of the government's ownership policy, which are consistent with our previous statements. If this system of applications is so good and it brings the small farmers to the government, then the question arises as to why such areas should be given to small owners without applying, rather than specifically to large farms, unlike what was said in the reply to the previous interpellation. Lands distributed outside the tender are only the tip of the iceberg. A handful of large business groups can pocket billions of agricultural subsidies each year. On the other hand, there are thousands of small and medium-sized family farmers, small-town municipalities, which unfortunately do not get land. I would ask the Secretary of State to explain to us how this will serve the estate policy that the Prime Minister has been talking about. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition. Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, among them: Strong applause! Bravo!]]
u2015-07-06-126	Thank you very much. My fellow Members, give me some peace. Secretary of State Mr Bitay Márton Örs responds to this interpellation. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-07-06-127	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I don't mean to offend you, but you're working with some outdated data. This applies on the one hand to the 2014 management year. I would like to tell you that all the data you have listed here, apart from Bábolna Nemzeti Ménesbirtok Kft., is no longer alive. These areas are not under contract. They have been included in a utility lease application system, and that is why I am confused about what we are talking about now. You claim that what we do here does not serve the government's property policy. Yes, that's exactly what it's for. In the areas you've listed, none of them have contracts. I would like to highlight your puppets because there we are assigning them to a public stud-house, so there is no private interest, there the state horse-dog needs this area, and because of another legal problem the contract form is used. However, I would like to highlight a few things: in terms of contract contracts, the lease contract and the contract of assignment are also constantly mixed in its interpellation. The contract of engagement is not a gift. On the one hand, farmers apply to the contract of assignment, and those who apply to it receive a mandate; typically, coverage is about 95 per cent here. So it's not that there's a lot of people coming up, and we're giving it to one person, but 90-95 percent of the time, one person comes up and gets it. On the other hand, you have to pay a higher rent, not a gift on the contract. Thirdly, according to the National Earth Fund Act, the National Earth Fund has an obligation to ensure that all public areas are used. We do not like the contract of assignment either, and he wrongly mentioned that the National Fund of Lands is regularly binding on 30,000 hectares per year, because in 2010 it was tied to 70,000 hectares and this year it was tied to 12,000 hectares - I hope that this shows you that there is a very drastic reduction of contracts. In addition to the 12,000 hectares, we have entered into a contract only in an area where the state has an undivided joint ownership, and there is legally no other place to put it, because it cannot rent it for 20 years, since there are other partners. So, in fact, we have reduced the number of assignment areas to less than one third. The other thing I would like to mention to you specifically is that there are other numbers here. For example, you and your economic interests have applied for more than 2,300 hectares of land for the farmers' programme. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: How much? The president's ringing the bell.]] They tried to prevent 50 family farmers from applying, and they tried to, I think, build a pretty nice estate; 2,300 hectares is a serious area, and if I add that in five years more than 100 million HUF has received agricultural subsidies [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: How much?]] Moreover, they have won land use rights on 237 hectares, so I think it is right for us to ask what you would like to ask here. Because what shows the success of the programme for farmers is that you have applied for 2300 hectares, but you have not won [[Zoltán Haughty: None!]] He won 2,300 hectares, 237 hectares in total. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: How much?]] Your lovely wife and your circle of interests. If it were to build a large estate, it would obviously have won all 2,300 hectares, which is 23 Margaret Island, just to help you with the examples. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Then, obviously, he would have won the size of this territory. Compared to this, family farmers who already have more than 7500 people on public land, more than a thousand young farmers can enjoy public land estates. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-128	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I will ask the Member if he will accept the Secretary of State's reply.
u2015-07-06-129	Mr President, I cannot accept this, but I thank you for the answer. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for saying that the 2014 figures are old, and he has just said very wisely that we are not drawing any conclusions from the unfinished economic year. [[A statement from the ruling parties: Weak!]] So, obviously, I can't talk about anything other than the closed marketing year. You just told me to give you a number where you're doing worse. Please tell me how much more people are employed after the lease on state land. ♪ 'Cause there's no more ♪ [[Dr. Márton Bitay: Worse!]] I've been employed, even though more numbers are shown. As a result, this number is worthless. I am pleased to note the positive trend in contract contracts, but I obviously have to ask [[György Balla intervenes.]] Why they're not all on the market. 'Cause that means that whoever makes an offer has information on where the state land is that could be used. And obviously, the fact that I didn't win what I wanted in the 2,000 acres proves exactly what I'm saying, that after I didn't have a fidesz membership book, I had to submit a lot of applications, unlike your fellow members. So that's basically what this is about. [[There's a grumble and a blur in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] And the reason I'm worried about your claims is because they're obviously lies, and you said that after the fall speech, whoever lies is cheating. Thank you very much. [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: That's right! Let's hear it for Jobbik. A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP. Grumble in the ranks of Fidesz. György Balla: Nothing is enough for you!]]
u2015-07-06-130	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The congressman did not accept the Secretary of State's reply, so I ask you if you will accept it. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the State Secretary's reply by 104 votes to 31, with no abstentions. This brings us to the end of the interpellations. Thank you for your cooperation. Since we are no longer likely to see each other today, I wish everyone a very busy summer. I give the chair to Vice-President István Jakab. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2015-07-06-131	Dear Parliament, Welcome to my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, It's time for the immediate questioning. Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question: It's an address. The Minister has appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State to respond to his urgent public mission. I'll ask the congressman if he'll accept the person of the responder, or personally... [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2015-07-06-132	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Now everyone involved can see that Fidesz didn't save him, didn't even let him down, but threw a lot of foreign exchange credo into a ditch. Just before the change of government, in April 2010, the Swiss franc was 185 HUF, but by spring 2014 it reached 257 HUF. So by the end of the 2010-2014 government cycle, the weakening of the forint was nearly 40 percent. [[15.10]] This brutal 40 percent exchange rate loss was paid to debtors while talking about reducing the burden of debtors within the walls of this House. It's been two months since the accounts were posted, every foreign exchange loaner has a record that you've been deceiving them. I'm holding in my hand a perfectly ordinary foreign exchange credit card. [[He's showing it to me.]] , the accounts for this. According to this, the debtor took a HUF 12 million franc in the autumn of 2008, and paid the repayments fairly for six and a half years, thus paying more than HUF 9 million in total. What do you think, in the summer of 2015, after your debt rescue operation, how much do you owe today? 16 million forints! In six and a half years, 12 million forints of debt became 16 million forints with your help. Don't point a finger at the previous government or the Swiss central bank or anyone else, because it's your responsibility. Remember the 2010 performance of Lajos Kósa and Péter Szijjártó! They actually managed to save themselves and the wealthy debtors with money reserves with a final repayment of HUF 180. However, everyone else was sacrificed when Matolcsy consciously weakened the forint. The most cheated participants in the exchange rate barrier are those who will encounter a brutal increase in their repayments from 2017 onwards after the end of the discount period. I ask the Secretary of State why hundreds of thousands of foreign exchange credentials in the most difficult situation have been paid for the failed economic policy of the last four years. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-07-06-133	Thank you. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-07-06-134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think that Hungary's having to deal with the biggest social problem in Europe in the years 2010 [[Zoltán Grimlock: What was the exchange rate for Frank? Talk about that.]] The Fidesz government has no responsibility for the number of foreign exchange-credited acquisitions, i.e. that the number of families concerned exceeds 2 million and that the number of families concerned exceeds 1 million. If anyone has a responsibility, it is your government; whether you like it or not, if you have participated in it or not, people have taken these loans during the MSZP government. [[Noise in the benches of MSZP.]] I don't think they've picked it up. [[Intercoms in the benches of the MSZP.]] They've been encouraged to go along with it. They didn't warn you of the exchange rate risk you had, they didn't warn people of the interest risk they had, because the banks kept fooling people, and then they left them in trouble. They left him in trouble, but thank God, that's when the change of government came, and the Fidesz government and the two-thirds majority in Parliament realized that it couldn't go on, essentially stopped mortgage lending in Hungary, and helped people step by step. A solution had to be found which, on the one hand, would be legally sound, not hundreds of thousands of lawsuits; it had to be a step that was fair, and that was not worse for those who took the loan even at this time; it had to be a step that would stand up economically and financially: let us say, the state budget will not go bankrupt, and we are not spending public money on private purposes because of your mistake. I believe that the Fidesz, the Fidesz government and the parliamentary majority have found a solution that meets all social expectations. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-07-06-135	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Bellozó. Here you go.
u2015-07-06-136	Dear Secretary of State, No one doubts that there were 2 million loan contracts in 2010 and 185 HUF Swiss franck exchange rate, Mr. Secretary of State, on which people were able to repay the details without any particular burden. The fact is that in the previous term, with a HUF 180 final repayment here in Parliament, you have provided the opportunity for the wealthier, let us add, through yourself, Kósa Rogán - from the wealth statements perfectly visible - to pay back the money at this rate, which was the last time under the MSZP government; while the people who did not have the opportunity, last year, with the law that we did not really vote for, because we demanded that the exchange rate be HUF 180, you really pushed it into the trench. You can't explain, Secretary of State, how 16 million forints can stay up after six and a half years of repayment after your miracle rescue package! He can't explain it to these people or to people who can't even pay off their cars anymore. Today, the Swiss franc, Mr. Secretary of State, is 64 percent more than in 2010, and this is your fault. Thank you so much for listening.
u2015-07-06-137	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has a rejoinder. Here you are, Secretary of State.
u2015-07-06-138	No one talks about a miracle rescue package, but let me tell you, if you don't mind me saying that in the neighbouring countries, after the release of the Swiss franc in January, the solution was acknowledged, in Austria, Croatia and Poland. [[Noise in the benches of MSZP.]] So yes, both in Austria and in other European countries. And by the way, examples can be given. There were 2 million affected clients whose accounts were posted by banks. 82 percent of them had a significant decrease in the repayments, 12 percent had a moderate decrease, and 1-2 percent had an increase in the repayments due to some contractual reason. By the way, such examples can be given, because in terms of the figure of 2 million, 1 percent is 20 thousand. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He'll always be able to say one of the 20,000 every day. I think you should acknowledge the government's activities in this case. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-07-06-139	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Why do you tolerate it? It's an address. The Prime Minister appointed Minister László Trócsányi to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2015-07-06-140	Thank you, Mr. President. Given the gravity of the case, I'd wait patiently for the Prime Minister. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik. Dr. Bence Rétvári: That will be September!]]
u2015-07-06-141	The Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, President Novak, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Capacities an immediate question: The Minister appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond to his urgent public mission. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-07-06-142	Yeah.
u2015-07-06-143	Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-07-06-144	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I ask the government to take to heart the words of Gyula Illyés, and I ask whether he is willing to give up the success of population policy because the demographic state of Hungarians is critical. The half-solution, unfortunately characterised by this government, no doubt shows some progress, but ultimately it will lead to the fact that, by the end of the century, Hungarians could become a minority in their own country, unless there is a radical revolution in population policy. In the absence of this, it is not expected that there will be a change in the trend seen in the recent population policy comparison of the EU Member States published by the HCSO. According to this, only three countries are now prevented from living births per thousand inhabitants out of 28, and we have fallen back in every ranking. I know that the Secretary of State is also able to look for statistics in which some kind of hair growth can be detected: for example, the fertility rate has risen from 1.3 to 1.4, but this is still a little short, and let us not be happy that the rate of population loss has slowed down by a minimum, a hairy drop, as we move towards national death. Moreover, this particular fertility rate of 1.4 applies only if, according to the law, Gypsies are registered as minorities and nationalities, for example - but I could mention any of the 13 nationalities - are included in this statistics. If we don't count it, then we have to say: we have to face the fact that a Hungarian woman doesn't have any children on average. That is why we can say that Hungarians are halved every generation, while Gypsyism doubles every generation. You said that, didn't you, Judge Béla Hell, who was elected constitutional judge here in Parliament in the previous term, but had such responsibility. I'm asking the government if the government has a responsibility not to cover up trouble, but to face it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] with this problem, and who dares to say that the biggest problem of Hungarians is population loss. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-06-145	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-07-06-146	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, First of all, I am amazed that the Jobbik faction applauded this speech by Novak Elod. If they had taken seriously what Gábor Vona said about cutting down the party's wild game, then obviously that wouldn't have happened. Honourable Congressman, For the Hungarian government, it doesn't matter what kind of origin, Gypsy or non-Gypsy people are, if they have children in Hungary, if they work in Hungary, they can use the largest amount of subsidies from the government. [[15.20]] We are very happy that if as many Gypsies as possible work, if as many Hungarians as possible work, if as many Hungarians and Gypsy people have children, we will be happy for both of them. And the kind of rhetoric you have repeatedly said in this House, for the many times now, may bring a lot of liking on kuruc.info, but it cannot be accepted in a democratic parliament, so I would like to reject it completely. And then, to the essence of the matter, the demographic question in Hungary: you seem to like impossible missions, because proving that you are not pursuing a family-friendly policy about this government is very difficult, I think you will not succeed very much, we could also say that you are mission impossible. If the government had the opportunity to introduce a family-type tax system [[Dóra Dúró: By making the day care pay!]] , with the extra child, the extension of the child to three years, by increasing the speed of kindergarten building, day care programmes by one and a half to three times, for parents, more specifically for women returning from childbirth in the job protection action plan by providing tax relief, by providing part-time opportunities... - and by all other means, he did everything he could to get these positive numbers out, because there is a chance that the fertility rate is now rising from the bottom of 2010-11, from 1.2 to 1.41. As a result of these measures, we could say in Hungary for years or even 30 years that it has not seen [[The president's ringing the bell.]] turn the birth rates. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the governing parties and the MSZP.]]
u2015-07-06-147	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In return, I give the floor to Mr President Novak.
u2015-07-06-148	Minister of State, it does not matter to us that the Carpathian Basin will be inhabited by Hungarians, or by the 13 Roma, Germans, Ukrainians, Romanians, or even the Albanians in Kosovo, who are flooding us, as more immigrants come to our country than children are born. [[László Teleki: That's not true!]] And we think that we do have to face it, and it doesn't matter if Hungarians are going to inhabit the Carpathian Basin. We want to focus on Hungarians, not on Facebook fans, which is why we raise such issues of national strategy, which may not be important for voters, but for us, however, we think that we dare to say that this issue of national strategy is important. And we can also see contradictions in the government's family policy, because, for example, the three-year-old child has been supplemented with work restrictions, and the partnership has been raised in the Ptk., and the daycare service has been paid for, so we can give many examples that are negative. I am asking you to consider the proposals of Jobbik's family policy, of which I have presented dozens here in Parliament, but unfortunately [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] (The president bell rings) that the biggest problem of Hungarians is population loss. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-06-149	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-07-06-150	Thank you very much. I'd like to divide my answer into two parts again. For me, it will be a matter of credibility that Jobbik, after having made such a speech here in Parliament, will initiate any procedure in-house, whether you have some committee of ethics or discipline that will examine your rhetoric here, within the walls of Parliament, or not. If not, this is proof that Jobbik remained with the same rhetoric that brought him into Parliament, along with the Hungarian Guard and everything else, and continues perfectly and on that threatening path. As regards the area of childbearing [[Dóra Dúró: Here's your credit! Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] Honourable Member, 1100 - 1100! - billion forints of the surplus we left with the families, we increased the support opportunities for families by 40 percent. [[Interviews from Jobbik and MSZP.]] for everyone who works and has children, there are now far more opportunities and needs for state aid than before. I believe that it would be better to vote on these proposals here, within the walls of Parliament, rather than to analyse them afterwards, or to consider this to be a little, when we were able to talk today precisely about the fact that the family's benefit opens up an unprecedented opportunity to create homes. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] With support of up to HUF 3 million for the purchase of children's rooms for families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-151	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, representative of LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to respond to an urgent public task. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett nodds.]] The congresswoman indicates that she accepts the person who is responding. You have the floor.
u2015-07-06-152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In recent months, the LMP has pointed out that, for example, there is a completely illegal practice taking place at the KLIK: they are creating public jobs at the expense of real jobs, and at a certain committee meeting, when Mr Balog was there, this was confirmed by a Fidesz Member, and Mr Balog told the Committee that he would investigate this case. On a written question, I explained exactly how the investigation took place and what the result was. The answer I've learned from your response is about the answer that the Secretary of State sent me that everything at the KLIK is fine, and you've determined it by simply asking KLIK how many public workers and how many civil servants have worked and worked for them. Here's the thing, Mr. Secretary, you can't hide here by following the laws. On the one hand, the numbers alone are not conclusive in such an investigation, and I'm the one who lacks the examination that you put on the table. And the other is that I think that every sober-minded person should see that there is little law to be followed, that no public worker should be hired instead of a public servant or another person in employment, because in this way the people who should be working for decent wages in this country will be sent into worse conditions. The Ombudsman drew attention to illegal reorganisations several years ago and said that what is going on in this country is contrary to fundamental principles of the rule of law. Since then, the situation has only gotten worse. Dear Secretary of State, I don't think you can assist the government in sweeping this problem under the rug. The LMP will receive letters from the whole of the country in its legal assistance service and will continue to receive proof of this situation. I would like to ask you, and I look forward to your honest answer whether you are willing to deal with this issue or continue to assist in the reduction of working Hungarians.
u2015-07-06-153	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-07-06-154	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, As a lawyer, I've written an illustrious saying in your speech, and it literally sounds like, "You can't hide it by following the laws." I would like to cover for the rest of my life by following the laws, I think it is a procedure to be followed for everyone to comply with the law. As far as the investigation is concerned, you, in the Committee on Culture, raised the fact that you have heard of some people being employed as civil servants at the Klebelsberg Institutional Maintenance Centre and then re-employed as public employees. We have looked at this question from several directions. On the one hand, is it technically feasible to go out on Friday as a public servant and come in on Monday as a public servant? It is not possible, because there must be a procedure for several months, so someone must apply to the employment centre, attend various counselling or training sessions, if any, but they will definitely offer jobs there, so it is not a legally conceivable model that someone from a public servant will become a public employee from Friday to Monday. However, it turned out to us, and this is positive that the opposite is true of what the congresswoman says, so people who used to work as public workers in the KLIK, because there are 4400, 4403, 4383 of them - a month earlier there were 4403 - who were previously employed by the public, then they enter the KLIK, and whether they work as employees or as civil servants, and they achieve the goal of the Start Work Programme, because they have been employed by unemployed people for a year, and then they become ordinary workers or ordinary civil servants or civil servants. So you can see from this that this program is working. On the other hand, there are guarantees that, of course, teachers should be employed as civil servants, that no one can do teaching and teaching work in a different legal relationship than the civil servant status, everyone does, and the investigation has also proved this within the KLIK. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-155	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor for a rejoinder to the congresswoman. Here you go.
u2015-07-06-156	Dear Secretary of State, As an economist, let me note that the wages in Hungary are still bad, and I must say very sadly that János Lázár is therefore absolutely right, if it is up to Fidesz, then this will remain the case for another twenty years, because we have just heard the speech of the Minister of State responsible for the EMMI that you are unwilling to investigate this case in a fair and professional manner, as the voters would expect you to do. However, we insist that at least the little legitimacy that is left be observed. I think that the Committee on Budgets, as such, cannot function without a monitoring subcommittee, so I expect you to make sure that this whole ex-lex situation, which is now in the Hungarian Parliament, is terminated. 'Cause the May Other Politics is constantly trying to get the data you have, even though there are three ministries, three complete wallets, unable to ask for it, unable to examine it. It's okay, we ask for it, whatever it takes, and we want to take it to this control subcommittee, because I think it's totally unfair that we're the fifth worst wage country in the Union, and they don't even bother to make such a terrible situation out of people looking for it anyway. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I want you to lock me up so that you can practically lose the job you have and replace the community worker...
u2015-07-06-157	Thank you, Congresswoman...
u2015-07-06-158	This is totally unacceptable.
u2015-07-06-159	Thank you. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor. [[15.30]]
u2015-07-06-160	Thank you very much for the floor. We haven't heard more specifics from the congresswoman in one minute than in the previous two. That the wages are bad, it is strange that, in the case of teachers, the congresswoman says, who are now taking home 30-40 percent more than they took me home four years ago, and for whom wages will increase both in September and next September this year, and this is planned for the budget. 120 billion last year [[Lajos Korózs intervenes.]] This year, more than HUF 37 billion is added to the salary of teachers. As to the fact that we did not properly examine it, Congresswoman, you had a speech at the parliamentary committee meeting, and then the Minister asked KLIK for detailed information, and you received it, too. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's not true!]] in writing he received the number of cleaning and garbage collectors employed in KLIK [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: So?!]] how many administrators, how many pedagogical assistants, how many youth workers, how many support workers, trained workers, building managers, maintenance workers, skilled workers, janitors, guards, adjutants, delivery agents [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: That's not what I asked. That's not what I asked. The president's ringing the bell.]] You've been given these data by number. More detailed than that, I think you couldn't have had it in any other case. We thought you'd thank us for these data, but I guess it's a waste of time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-161	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:.. How has the desire to have children changed thanks to family-friendly governance? It's an address. I give the floor to the congresswoman.
u2015-07-06-162	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The focus of Fidesz's policy is on children and family, our goal is to give birth to planned children, and even to families and couples, if possible, to have more children than they had previously planned. If we recall the previous periods, the period before 2010, we saw that the left-wing governments were povertying and indebting Hungarian families with their anti-family policies and austerity measures. In addition to the work, children were subject to high tax rates, the family home creation opportunities were abolished and the Hungarian families were subject to foreign exchange loans. During the governance of the left, childbearing was a risk of poverty, and being a woman and a mother was a disadvantage; it was a disadvantage both in the labour market and in terms of living. The purpose of Fidesz is, on the other hand, and we believe that having children should not pose a risk of poverty, that there should not be a burden on the shoulders of families. Family and children are valuable, so in recent years we have done everything in our power to provide a safe background for families to take on children. That is why we have introduced low, single-key, 16 percent income tax, which is why we have restored the family tax reduction, so we provide the family with the child extra, so we support the employment of mothers with the job protection action, and we will continue to expand and expand them in the next period. Dear Secretary of State, My question: thanks to all these measures, how much has the Hungarian family's desire to have children increased, what has Fidesz-KDNP achieved so far thanks to its family-friendly policy? [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-163	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-07-06-164	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, Many people already know the joyful fact that 91,500 children were born last year, which is more than ever in the last five years, and the last 30 years, in 1985, were born in Hungary than in 2014. [[Dóra Dúró intervenes.]] I think this is a welcome news, and if we continue to do so, Hungary is on a very good path. [[To the nation's death!]] In the last four years, the number of marriages has also increased by 10 percent, while earlier this rate has decreased. So not only has the government been able to improve, but it has already been able to make a sign of family foundings. We hope that this will serve as the best medium for raising children next year. I also have to say that the rate of population loss has decreased by around 2 percent since 2010, and this has not been the case in the past. These changes were short, temporary, and we know the negative effects of the Bokros package on this, but now the government has managed to improve them somewhat. This was clearly based on serious government measures, such as the Gyed Extra or the Job Protection Action Plan, but it is also important that, with the support of Fidesz-KDNP, the government has adopted the budget and tax laws, which will double the tax relief of families with two children in four years. Only in the following year, following the laws voted by Fidesz-KDNP, will this benefit 350 thousand families with two children, and 15 billion HUF more will remain in the pockets of families with two children. If you look at the entire Sija system, the single-key family-type tax system, which leaves 3600 billion forints in people, then this family tax reduction will leave 1300 billion forints for families. As the Member mentioned, in the previous period, childbearing has often been synonymous with taking on poverty. This is morally unacceptable, which is why we have taken these and further measures to eliminate this injustice and encourage childbearing. Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Loránt Hegedűs will be replaced in the notary seat by Adam Mirkóczki.]]
u2015-07-06-165	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2015-07-06-166	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your answer. It is a welcome indicator and number that the birth rate of children has increased significantly in the last year, 91 500 children have been born, and it is also good news and welcome that the desire to have children has increased among Hungarian families. It is also a very welcome figure that the fertility rate increased to 1.41, which was 1.26 five years ago. These numbers are forward-looking and good, but we know that this is not enough, and we know that these numbers need to be further increased. Our goal - and we hope that it will - is that the Fidesz-KDNP government's family-friendly measures will make Hungarians want to continue to have children, and this trend will continue. Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-167	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-07-06-168	Thank you very much. I think we can agree that Hungarian society is a child-friendly society, and if it had asked people in 2010 how many children they wanted when they were young and how many they finally took on, then, sociological research revealed that on average, everyone would have loved more children than they eventually had children. It is therefore the duty of the State to remove these obstacles, these barriers, which represent only one less child in the actual life of Hungarian citizens and Hungarian families compared to the intended births of children. So that's why we've been trying to work for the last four years or five years, and there are consequences. And I think that it is a direction supported by all governments, by all sound European governments, that those who take up and work in Hungary are entitled to the greatest benefit, so they also want to work, and they will have children for the future generation, the future Hungary, and they will spend part of their own money not on themselves, but on their children. They are the ones who have preferred the current tax system. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-169	Thank you for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Nándor Gúr, from the MSZP Group, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources: . Fellowship with the title Fidesz. The Minister appointed Mr Bence Rétvári State Secretary for the response to the urgent public task. I ask the Member if he accepts the person who is responding.
u2015-07-06-170	Yes, Mr. President.
u2015-07-06-171	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2015-07-06-172	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, In 2010, the trombone was playing, remembering: - Only the Fidesz! Only the Fidesz! And then there's a little promise, like a million new jobs in the economy, you know, the economy, not the public employment stage, and the kind where the care fee will be equal to the minimum wage, there will be no problem with service time, no problem with health insurance. Then came the awakening in 2011, pretty soon. The wake-up was about the fact that care-payers had to face the fact that there was no minimum wage, this is the first great tragedy, and then the sequel that the period of service and the health insurance contribution would be questioned - you know, at the equity care fee, when you transferred the burden to the municipalities, and you pulled out, the public engagement was lifted - these people can only achieve health insurance benefits or time of service above a certain level of income, even though they assume quasi-state tasks, and crowded institutions are relieved of the burden. And, you know, the rate of care fees in 2011 didn't differ from what was expected in 2015 and 2016. This cudar is that while, on the one hand, 23 600 or 29 500 forints were calculated in 11, this is still expected in the case of long-term patients aged 18 or/or in the case of the care of disabled persons under 18 years of age. [[15.40]] Let's not even talk about home assistance. They are trying to put in place a system in which it is impossible to reach the aid. You promised, I can say with a calm spirit, that you lied all over the place, and you didn't give, but you took me away from people. When are you going to change that? When do you intend to fulfill your true promises? Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2015-07-06-173	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-07-06-174	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Four years ago, I would have some understanding of why Mr President was speaking, but now, in 2015, I do not understand, because you said that in 2010 Fidesz promised, but in 2011 people sobered up. Then why has Fidesz-KDNP been re-elected by the overwhelming majority in 2014? Maybe they weren't disillusioned by the government, but they were voting for him again? Perhaps they continued to be disillusioned with the socialists, which is why you remained here in Parliament with a very narrow faction and failed to advance, because the claims you make are not real, Congressman? As to what happened in 2010 and in 11th, 12th, 13th and 14th, the voters gave their verdict and said that we, the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP, should continue to sit on the government side with a large majority because they were satisfied with our work. And perhaps because what you have mentioned here, for example, about the care fee, well, you know very well that almost half of the people who receive the care fee, if I remember correctly, have raised 48 percent or received a special care fee; not the amount you have referred to, but 140 and 180 percent of that. The special care fee was introduced by Fidesz-KDNP. There are about 15,000 people on this scale. They're now receiving a level of care that wasn't before. And what else could be the secret to Fidesz-KDNP's success, and what is it that continues to keep the MSZP as a stable middle party or small party of the opposition here in Parliament? For example, while Fidesz-KDNP raised the minimum wage by HUF 7625 per year in the first period, in the second period by HUF 6300, the socialists only raised the minimum wage by HUF 2900. Maybe the problem here is why they didn't vote for MSZP. Or show me a government that has raised the number of employees in the competitive sector by 340 200 in the socialist period! And that's what the 105,000 public workers find out. Which socialist government could create 340 thousand jobs in four years? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-175	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. In return, I give the floor to Congressman Nándor Gúr. Here you go.
u2015-07-06-176	Thank you very much, Mr. President. See, Mr. Secretary, these are more lies. They helped you get back into power, but sooner or later, the people will sober up. These are more lies, because when you talk about 340,000 people in employment, you know that 200,000 people come from public employment, and you know that more than 100,000 people come from working abroad. And when you talk about wages, you know that, in an impeccable manner, they gave the public employees 47 thousand forints against the previous 60 200 forints, and you know that the minimum wage was only raised grossly, because today it is worth 5 thousand forints less than it was worth in 2010, and a thousand examples could be given in addition to all that they wanted to introduce an Internet tax, they did closed on Sunday, they introduced land, tramps, gas and gambling doggies. There are thousands of things to say. But back to the care fee, so that it's clear and clear, you're also absolving yourself of responsibility. They'll charge it to the local authorities, and they'll back you up in the relief system. This is your policy, your lying policy, the policy of lying, the policy of deception, and the policy of taking funds from people! Thank you.
u2015-07-06-177	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2015-07-06-178	Thank you very much. Congressman, with such speeches, you have the value of these words. If you always use these adjectives on everyone, people won't take that seriously from you because you use those terms as a binding word. Not like the good guys, because there's even a more subtle kind of guy, but still, in your rhetoric, I think it completely devalues the value of words. [[Noise in the ranks of the MSZP.]] You said so much, Congressman, I don't know which part to answer. For example, is there a possibility of continuing growth in trade flows without an increase in the average level of people's lives? It can't be imagined, because their daily consumption increases this. Then the real estate market boom, the fact that there's much more traffic in the real estate market now... [[Moore in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2015-07-06-179	Congressman, Mr. Secretary of State has the floor.
u2015-07-06-180	Thank you very much. The fact that much more people buy real estate, that they find property much sooner, all indicates that people have more money, that they live better than they did in previous years. I think that's why Fidesz-KDNP could be trusted again. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-181	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, János Volner, a representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy an immediate question:. Why can't we see clearly? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. András Tállai Secretary of State to answer his urgent public mission. Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. You have the floor.
u2015-07-06-182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, We have spoken about this subject today, but since we have not received any answers from your side, I will do it again. In 2010, I myself presented 24 amendments to the Financial Supervision Act, proposals that could have prevented the emergence of a brokerage scandal with damages of HUF 300 billion. These amendments were mentioned by László Windisch before the Economic Committee of the Hungarian Parliament, as proposals which, if they had been made, could have been avoided. Then these proposals were voted out here in Parliament by you, the representatives of Fidesz, with the socialists forming a coalition, which is why this could not be a law. For five years, the financial supervision later forgot to check the activities of these brokerage companies, and no normal checks were carried out. The lesson of the Quaestor scandal was that the CEO himself revealed in his letter to the Prime Minister that there were serious problems with the brokerage company and that it would go bankrupt - you didn't discover it - and when the speculation about how many Fidesz Members, how many politicians, how many family members, how many economic interests could have been personally involved in this, the government certainly began to swindle, and while Prime Minister Viktor Orbán called some parties sneaky, to this day there is only one party sneaking around the Hungarian Parliament, and this is yours, Secretary of State. You refuse to sign your criminal liability, knowing that no insider information has been recovered from Quaestor. I'm asking why they refuse to sign the statement. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-06-183	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2015-07-06-184	Thank you very much. If one party has a public opinion about the brokerage scandal, it's definitely not Fidesz, it's Jobbik. Unfortunately, I have to bring here the vote on the law on tightening up the control of the financial services system in June, which had two-thirds of its parts, which would have confirmed the control powers of the Hungarian National Bank and voted against by your party. [[Dr. Gábor Staudt: That was not the question!]] Jobbik voted against it in coalition with the socialists. What happened between 2010 - when you submitted the rigorous amendments - and 2015? What happened to you? Don't you think they're in favor of tightening up now? Now you're in favour of making the rules the way they used to be? Did the brokers approach Jobbik? Or is there another answer to that? What's more, when we took the two-thirds rule out of the law and brought it back to this House, you couldn't even support it in an incomprehensible way. So I think you should first tell the public what happened on this issue in your party. By the way, they have changed their position on many other issues, but let's leave it at that. As far as Fidesz is concerned, you are saying this for the third or fourth time here in Parliament. What I can tell you is, if you have any information, please come to the justice authorities, the prosecutor's office, the police, tell them and file a complaint. But you have the right to ask the National Bank of Hungary. Ask them if there is such involvement. But stop sneaking around. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-185	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The congressman has a rejoinder. You have the floor. [[15.50]]
u2015-07-06-186	Mr. Secretary. You know as well as I do, because we've already told you, and I don't think your memory is so short, the Jobbik didn't vote for your broker's bill because they're still hiding behind bank secrets the names of those who have been infiltrating money from Quaestor at the last minute. Secretary of State, we told you! If you could see to it that this one pass was passed so that it wouldn't be possible for those who abused government power to extract money from the last minute brokerage company in trouble to get away with it, we would vote in favour of this bill. Mr. Secretary. Our offer stands now; it is up to you whether or not to accept it. Unfortunately, there's a growing suspicion that the government is sniffing around on this issue, and the reason you don't want to include this pass in the law is because you simply have something to hide. There's personal involvement among Fidesz politicians. Secretary of State, you can't give me an acceptable answer to that, I believe. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-06-187	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, has a rejoinder. You have the floor.
u2015-07-06-188	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, I can't, too, because the Minister of National Economy is not responsible for the investment or withdrawal of funds. Then why are you asking the Minister of National Economy? Why not from the Hungarian National Bank, in writing or in the form of an immediate question? Tell me why not, if you're so interested. No one hides behind bank secrets, by the way. The adoption of a law means future entry into force, and, if I understand it correctly, you've been digging around in the past. But by the way, there's only one party involved in the brokerage scandal. Here sits Congressman György Lukács. [[An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] To date, Karcagon has not explained whether Karcagon was in contact with a certain Broker Marcsi, who was in a building with the Kun-Mediator, or whether he was involved in a legal service, or if he was involved in the upheaval of clients. Congressman, I want Jobbik to answer that first. Then we'll do the rest. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-07-06-189	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. The legendary Hungarian talent is not a cliché and reality. But can it stay that way? It's an address. Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári Secretary of State to answer the question because of his urgent public mission. Congressman indicates that he accepts the person to whom he is responding. You have the floor.
u2015-07-06-190	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. [[András Tállai and Előd Novák argue loudly. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Secretary of State, Talent is a resource that is not infinite and not useful on its own.
u2015-07-06-191	Excuse me, Congressman, for a second. I would also like to ask my fellow Members, Mr Secretary of State, to give them the opportunity to present their immediate question. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: Thank you.]] You have the floor. Reset the clock, please.
u2015-07-06-192	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Talent is a resource that is not infinite and not useful on its own. I think we agree that talenting, talent management is not only a question of money, but also difficult without money. Who's talented and who's less talented? Who has the ability, the diligence, to make his territory a future-forming personality? It is hardly possible to say for a young person who breaks his wings with absolute certainty, and to decide and unfold this, it is necessary to care for talent. We cannot go without saying the social value of talent management, the ability of talent and its exploitation to influence the values, standards, mental health, thinking, development, quality of life of the community, the international image and reputation of Hungary. Dear Secretary of State, Talent is an innovative force, creative creativity combined with the ability to implement it, either for the renewal of a traditional area or for the creation of a new trend. I respectfully ask what the government has done, what the government is doing to ensure that the legendary Hungarian talent is not just a legend, but remains a reality. I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2015-07-06-193	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-07-06-194	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The National Talent Programme was decided here by the Parliament, and from time to time the government has to adopt two-year action programmes. The 2015-2016 Action Programme was discussed by the Government in June 2015 and was discussed by 1390/2015. in a government decision. It is very important that this government spends more than its predecessors, and not even a little more. If you look at the HUF 2.8 billion amount in the 2015 budget, you can see that this is twice the amount last year and three times the amount in 2013. So we use much more resources to find talent, to help talent, to care for talent than Hungary has in previous times. Just because our new Fundamental Law makes this country and government a much stronger obligation, it says in the National Creed that as members of the Hungarian nation, we are proud of the great intellectual creations of Hungarian people, that for centuries our people have increased Europe's common values with their talents and diligence. Therefore, one of Hungary's greatest values, Hungary's treasure comes from talented children and young people who can soar if they receive personal attention and professional individual support. Without this, however, this talent would be lost. That is why this budgetary framework is important, so it is important to double it and triple it so that in a talent-friendly society no such young person is lost but has a real chance to expand his above-average abilities. We hope that the enlarged system of the national talent programme will also be able to serve this goal effectively. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-07-06-195	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a rejoinder, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2015-07-06-196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think, Mr Secretary of State, that talent management is a strategic issue, and therefore all the instruments used by the government to do so are extremely important and extremely important. It is particularly important, I think, in disadvantaged areas, this kind of strategic activity. In my constituency, South Somogy, many institutions have also taken advantage of the opportunities provided by the National Talent Programme. We are pleased that the government really sees it as a strategic task, considers talent management, talent support, and has therefore doubled the budget for the previous year in the 2015 budget. Thank you very much for your reply, Mr State Secretary.
u2015-07-06-197	Thank you, Congressman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2015-07-06-198	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, What can be supported from this extended framework is quite broad, because it is not only within the borders, but also to provide talent and support for young people across borders, talented students and young people. On the one hand, we can use this to pay, pay, pay, or supplement the salary of talented people. There are organizations that are involved in talent management, tracking down and helping them, and they get more. Moreover, communities that support especially talented young people will receive more. In order to help implement the National Talent Programme itself, professional institutional and information systems can be further developed from this increased amount. It is important that we also try to help outstanding young people in their careers, where extra money is available to develop outstanding talents, and we also launch programmes for families that support families that recognise and recognise talent. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-07-06-199	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, On a point of order, Mr László Lukács, Jobbik Group asked for the floor. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2015-07-06-200	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Although the unsub himself left this room in a hurry, Secretary of State András Tállai, it would be nice to have him here, since you could hear him...
u2015-07-06-201	Congressman!
u2015-07-06-202	I wish to speak as a personal concern, Mr President.
u2015-07-06-203	Yeah. Congressman, yes. I'm aware of your personal involvement. [[Dr. László György Lukács: At the end.]] The resolution rule is 20. The time frame is, of course, available at the end of the sitting day in two minutes, pursuant to paragraph 1 of Section 1. Thank you.
u2015-07-06-204	Thank you very much.
u2015-07-06-205	Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. Congressman István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "The casinos are closed, right? It's an address. Prime Minister László Trócsányi appointed Minister for Justice as a response to an urgent public task. I ask the Member whether he accepts the person of the response or asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2015-07-06-206	Yeah.
u2015-07-06-207	Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman. [[16.00]]
u2015-07-06-208	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Gambling addiction can become a very serious disease. If gambling becomes overwhelming and completes the individual's lifestyle, it can have serious financial, family, social consequences such as advanced alcoholism or drug use. This disease is estimated to affect 200,000 people in Hungary. Gambling addiction is responsible for the mass inability of existentials, the destruction of thousands of families, tens of thousands of people, many human tragedies, not a pathological toy addict committing suicide. This serious problem has not been solved by the banning of one-armed robbers from the pub. The 200,000 gambling addicts stayed here, and they were looking for a new opportunity to take advantage of their passion. For example, nothing restricts them from entering a casino 24 hours a day, nothing restricts them to fail over and over again, which is thrown into the slot machine, placed on the roulette or playing cards. Any time and every time they lose everything, we should consider limiting access to casinos on a preventive basis. It could be introduced so that a person can spend his money only up to a certain amount of money a week, or the opening of casinos could be limited or even closed on Sunday. [[Dr. István Józsa applauds. Believing Dezső: Yes.]] There are a lot of instruments to limit casino activity that have so far been effective. Are they willing to limit access to casinos, helping tens of thousands of addicts and families? Let's be honest, except for Andy Vajna, this wouldn't hurt anyone, because the budget balance would still improve. By limiting addiction, we save the social and social costs of gambling in the order of 10 billion. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-07-06-209	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister László Trocsányi.
u2015-07-06-210	Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The question that has been raised is indeed very important. So I think that gambling can really be a disease, and, as you said, 200,000 people - or I don't know how much they said - are at risk. I can't really confirm or deny this number, because there's actually research going on. Obviously, there are university research institutions that deal with this and need to be dealt with, so I think that the government has acted accordingly and has laid down very serious rules on the protection of players in the adopted law, and has been authorised by the government to adopt rules on the protection of players at the level of a government decree. It is obviously included in this that a person should be able to ban himself, including the fact that the legal representative... - suppose that he gives someone permission, to his parents or to the caretaker, so obviously to his surroundings, so that he can ban him, which means an irrevocable ban. So the government is thinking about how to really help gamblers, and I think this is a very important issue. Obviously, this was also the way the one-armed robbers were banned, because actually, we could see that the symptom of poverty was that a lot of people went into the pub and gambled away the money that was basically used to support their families. So we had to take action, and banning one-armed robbers is very important, and I think it was a very good move from the point of view of public health. The other issue is that we must defend this position before the European Court of Justice, because obviously the free movement of services is a very nice system of ideas, of course, but we must take into account the social impact, the harmful effects of addiction to toys. We believe that we can do these things, that's what the government is dealing with, that in the law currently passed, the government is authorized to regulate it in a government decree. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] questions relating to persons dependent on gambling. I think this is a priority and this is what the government is dealing with. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-07-06-211	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2015-07-06-212	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Yeah, I said 200,000, 200,000, that affects tens of thousands of families. I ask you, Minister, that you really do have to look into these numbers, and whatever study you're looking at, it's going to mark a similar number of numbers of about the same magnitude. It affects a lot of people, it is a very important area, and it is very important to prevent it. That is why we have spoken, because at the moment we do not see those measures as appropriate, although indeed, these one-armed robbers have been banned, but, as I said, there has not been any other restriction on access to, for example, casinos. I also spoke about the proposal that was made, the closure on Sunday. This idea has come up because of many other things: shops have been closed down, access to cigarettes, tobacco products has been restricted to the operation of tobacco products, alcohol has not been available in many places since the evening. We recommend that some action be made visible, because, as Prime Minister said, we are not watching his words, but his actions. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We are very curious about these actions and look forward to them. Thank you.
u2015-07-06-213	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2015-07-06-214	I would like to add that it is extremely important for the government to take action against illegal gambling, to come from abroad or from abroad. This is an activity that has existed since ancient times, such gambling has always been, it cannot be completely banned. In France, the first law was introduced in 1836; in 1907 there was a casino law, so such laws exist everywhere in Europe. One thing is certain that this is a responsibility, so the government is obviously aware that the protection of players in this regard is extremely important, and that, as I said, we will address this in the forthcoming government decree. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2015-07-06-215	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We're going to get to the last immediate question today. Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: Mr. Minister has appointed Mr. Bence Rétvári Secretary of State for his urgent public service. [[Lajos Korózs: Of course. Thank you very much.]] Congressman, I see you're accepting the response. You have the floor.
u2015-07-06-216	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Last week, two statistics I would like to bring to the Parliament. The Central Statistical Office states in its publication that, despite favourable government measures, the income of families raising two children has fallen nominally. When you actually read the statistical data, it turns out that it decreased by 3.5 percent compared to 2012, as the Hungarian Central Statistical Office analyzes a closed statistical year. If we continue to read this data, it turns out that the poverty rate increased not only for families with two children compared to 2012, but also for families with one child, since in 2012 the poverty rate for families with two adults and one child was 12 percent, which in 2014, i.e. by 2013 was 13.2 percent, and for families with two children from 12.3 percent to 14.2 percent, and the poverty rate for families with children was 24,6 percent, representing nearly 450 thousand children. I would like to emphasise that we are talking about a poverty rate, not people living in poverty and exclusion, because those numbers are even higher. You can't be surprised at that, because now they've been ruling for the fifth year, and there hasn't been an increase in child benefit, there hasn't been an increase in maternity allowance. The other terrible data discusses the incomes of the microregions, also from the publication of the Hungarian Central Statistical Office. During Bodrog the income per person is 394 thousand HUF/year. I stress, my dear friends, that means 32,000 forints a month. Think about it if it's one of two people. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He earns 64,000 forints, the other doesn't get a penny!
u2015-07-06-217	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-07-06-218	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We would like to thank Mr Korózs for explaining why Parliament has adopted legislative changes from 1 January 2014 in the family-type taxation system and for adopting further changes in the case of two children over four years. What you said about single children, honourable Member: if you had changed the tax law that, from 1 January 2014, those who have lower incomes and are unable to exhaust the whole family type tax reduction could benefit from this contribution, if you had supported it, you would have tried to solve precisely this problem. Fidesz-KDNP saw this problem, which is why it accepted this amendment to be more positive figures in the coming years. Or the other question, when this year's tax laws could have supported the solution, Member, is the doubling of the tax relief of two children under the age of four, which now also means HUF 2500 per month plus, more precisely, from 1 January next year, and then continuously in the coming years, a total of HUF 10 thousand plus every month in four years. [[16.10]] These are the solutions to these problems, honourable Member. These figures confirm that the legislative changes that Fidesz-KDNP brings in here are indeed justified and serve social justice, only the Hungarian Socialist Party does not support these proposals. As far as territorial differences are concerned, this is a task for the government that is permanent, and obviously it must do so. For example, the creation of free business zones seeks to improve precisely these problematic situations by bringing investments and jobs to places where they earn so little or so little, as you have set as an example. It would only be good if these legislative proposals were supported by the Hungarian Socialist Party in Parliament. But we trust that territorial differentiation and other legislative changes will help more in difficult walks to create jobs and raise children for families. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2015-07-06-219	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr Lajos Korózs is entitled to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2015-07-06-220	Thank you very much. Well, we don't agree with philosophy, do we? I don't know why the hell you have to give kids to people with very rich, millions of dollars' salary. Maybe we should have supported those below, and then there wouldn't be such a big difference in the country! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The territorial differences?]] There was a seven-fold income gap for the lowest income tenths in 2010 and a nine-fold increase in 2014. I don't know what kind of free business zone you can set up in the small area of Bácsalma and the small region of the Arctic, because there are income conditions similar to those of Bodrog. Last week, the latest OECD survey came to light. I compare Hungary not to the most developed countries, but to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, in the last place. In Slovakia, too, in US dollars, Polish income is twice as high after the minimum wage, Slovenian income is two and a half times higher. But, dear friends, two and a half times [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the Slovenian economy is no better than the Hungarian economy! I'd ask how many more people have to work as slaves...
u2015-07-06-221	Thank you, Congressman.
u2015-07-06-222	...in this country, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-07-06-223	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Secretary of State, Bence Rétvári. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-07-06-224	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, In fact, you were not selected in tax relief when you came to government, all of it was abolished for the families. [[Zoltán Grimlock: No, it's not true! Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP.]] Whether poor or disadvantaged [[Zoltán Gőgös: There was no minimum wage tax! Why are you lying? Just the truth.]] They cut family allowances for everyone, took the third year child away from everyone, no matter how much he made, no one could get it for the third year. And we could continue these sequences. Congressman, you have mentioned how the difference between the lowest and the top tenth of society has changed, and you have said that the multiplier has increased from seven to nine. He just forgot to add that in the last year, he dropped to eight, headed back. Because, indeed, after the years of crisis, it rose from seven to nine if I looked at how much it was at 2008-09 and how much it was after 2010-11 [[Zoltán Grimlock: So there was a crisis?]] But why doesn't he add that the balance has started since then, and otherwise at the moment, if I didn't look at the tithes, but the fifths, so the upper and lower 20 percent, then Hungary compared to Austria - and I think it's strange for all of us, because we would think that everyone lives on a moderate standard of living [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] , but in Hungary these numbers are also more positive. So I could go on, but I won't go on; the statistics have a sequel, right? Thank you very much.
u2015-07-06-225	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 4:13 p.m., and we're moving on to questioning. Dear Parliament, Nándor Gúr, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of National Economy a question: "There are more and more accidents at work, more and more vulnerable workers, and less value on the title of human life. Mr Nándor Gúr has the floor.
u2015-07-06-226	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, 2014 is a black year for work accidents, with a 14 percent increase in work accidents. 19,661 of these accidents were reported and 78 of them were fatal. Especially the generation, the 35-45, most active in life, suffered the most work accidents, and the 45-55-year-olds were most affected by fatal accidents. Not only in disadvantaged areas, but also in Budapest, Pest county, Győr-Moson-Sopron, there was a similar increase in the number of accidents. And not only in the construction industry, no, as well as in the supply of goods and other specialties. In fact, my question revolves around the fact that the proportion of liability insurance that employers have made in Hungary today is incredibly low, with a ratio of 3-4 percent. You know, when you have to make mandatory liability insurance for a motor vehicle - I'm not saying it's tied, no, it has to be tied - why is it that in the case of workers, this kind of liability insurance is 3-4 percent? Why is it that strict compliance with labour protection rules is not in the hands of the labour government? Why? Why is it that prevention, prevention, are not used to much? Why? I mean, all of this would help. Didn't you value human life? Don't you want people to avoid working accidents in as many numbers as possible? Why do they allow such a process to be strengthened, where the number of work accidents is increasing, where death victims are showing an increasing trend? Mr. President, thank you very much.
u2015-07-06-227	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Sándor Czomba answers the question. I give you the floor.
u2015-07-06-228	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I assume we agree that in recent years, both economic growth and employment have increased significantly. The recovery in the economy has mostly occurred in the industry in recent years, and as the risk of accidents is high here, the increase in industrial production is also seen in the number of work accidents. The number of fatal work accidents in 2014 was 78, and so many fatal work accident reports were processed last year. We do not dispute that this is much, just 78 more than acceptable. At the same time, it strongly nuances the image by looking back over the last ten years. In 2005, during your administration, most fatal accidents occurred, honourable Member, 125. But there were more than 100 tragic cases in 2006, 2007 and 2008. If we correct the number of labour accidents by increasing employment, we find that 4.8 accidents were reported in 2014 for thousands of workers, and in 2010 this indicator was 5.3. The rate of fatal work accident decreased from 2.5 to 1.9 per 100,000 workers. So here too, I think the trend is worth watching. An irregularity was found to be 83.6 percent of the checks. This ratio also reflects the rigour and professional nature of inspections. This year alone, 36 thousand measures were taken to improve working conditions, of which more than 13 thousand were measures to be taken with immediate effect due to omissions directly endangering the safety and health of workers. We know very well that it would be the legal duty of the employer to ensure the conditions for healthy and safe work. This will never be perfect, and therefore the work organisation's activity in this direction is necessary. I also thank you for your work in this direction for those labour inspectors who do their work with honor and honor every day. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-229	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Szávay, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of State without a portfolio of national policy: how much has the construction of the European College in Novi Sad cost to Hungary so far? It's an address. Congressman István Szávay has the floor.
u2015-07-06-230	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Deputy Prime Minister, In Novi Sad, the student home called Europe College has been built since 2009, which is planned to provide accommodation for more than 400 Hungarian university students. This initiative is, of course, joyful and noble, and I would like to say this, but in recent times there have been more serious questions about the matter. According to Serbian and southern media, the cost of construction has been very high in recent years, according to Serbian media, the Serbian state has already contributed around EUR 5 million, and Hungary has already spent EUR 300,000 on this construction. Others, however, mention even greater amounts, even multiples. In fact, it is not really possible to know exactly how much money this construction has cost Hungary so far. The Hungarian National Council - the organ of the Hungarian autonomy in southern Hungary - also highlighted a further problem at its last meeting, namely that the laws in force do not exclude the accommodation of Serbian students, while the very essence of this dorm would be to provide opportunities for students of Hungarian nationality and to assist them with their stay in Novi Sad. [[16.20]] At the MNT meeting it was said that this problem would be solved, and indeed only Hungarian students could be in the institution. In this case, however, it may arise what Serbia will say about the fact that Serbian students cannot stay in the student home whose construction has cost at least EUR 5 million so far. As a matter of fact, if the Land hands over the founding rights to the Hungarian National Council, then how and how will MNT be able to finance the operation of the college. I am asking you, therefore, whether the Hungarian State is planning to contribute more resources to the project, with exactly what resources, with what amounts it has contributed to the construction. Does the government have information on whether the EUR 5 million number in Serbia is real? [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] which has been incurred as an amount of aid; or [[The president's ringing again.]] how does the government intend to further assist the functioning of the college? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-06-231	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Zsolt Semjén, Minister. You have the floor.
u2015-07-06-232	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, thank you very much for asking. There is no independent Hungarian-language higher education institution in southern Hungary, so the Hungarian National Council and the Hungarian Association of Vojvodina are aimed at becoming a Hungarian-language Hungarian-language professional college and a large student home in the university city of Nojvidék. That's about 700 square meters. We're talking 214 double, bathroom accommodations with sports facilities and related items. The foundation stone of the European College was on 4 May 2008, and the source of the construction was provided by the large investment fund of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, worth approximately HUF 1.5 billion; of course, it was paid in dinars. Since it's been jammed, I mean, the money transfer, that's why the construction stopped for months. The Hungarian state gave HUF 250 million to install the student home, mainly for furniture and this type of stuff. So far, 85 million has been accounted for and since the technical transfer is still under way, the remaining part will be fully and itemically accounted for after the technical transfer. The operating costs will be borne by the Hungarian government, in a similar manner to, say, Sapientia. Now I'm telling you my estimate, it's about 150 million forints, including overhead and wage costs. For the rest of your question: thanks to the joint decision of the co-founders, the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina, the Foundation of Europe and the Hungarian National Council, the European College serves Hungarian interests, i.e. it becomes a Hungarian institution. As the institution does not become part of the Serbian care system, the obligation to give priority to migrants and to young people from other disadvantaged social groups during college placement is not an obligation under Serbian legislation when filling dorms. On the other hand, on the basis of the joint decision of the co-founders, [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] In accordance with the original intentions, in case of interest, they provide college accommodation for young Serbians studying in Novi Sad, Hungary and Banat. Students can take possession of it from the 2015/16 academic year. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-233	Thank you, Minister. Dear Parliament, István Ikotity, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. The KLIK is going into bankruptcy? It's an address. Mr István Ikotity has the floor.
u2015-07-06-234	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Klebelsberg Institutional Center is swimming in debt, a list leader on the public debt list of state institutions. According to the public data of the Hungarian Treasury, while at the beginning of the year nearly 6 billion dollars of debt were rolled before him, by then KLIK's debt had doubled by May. The simple reason for this is the serious underfunding of the educational area and the permanent unprofessionalism of the government, and its consequences continue to make everyday life, the life of schools, the work of teachers miserable. We can't even afford to pay the wages, more teachers' salaries are running late all over the country, and some people didn't even get their wages in May. These news has also been confirmed by trade unions, which are already available in the press. The situation is very serious, supported by several other information in LMP's possession. We know about a KLIK circular that forbids schools to use the services of Magyar Posta, can no longer send a letter, and we have also heard that they send mail with public workers. Several institutions are lagging behind with utility bills, they don't pay paper, stationery and other suppliers, they cancel the ordering of professional journals in line, there's no money for that either. The Hungarian Treasury also records the debt of the wallets. We know from official data that the Ministry of Human Resources is the highest-ranking department in the world. According to the May statement, the debt of the mammoth is more than HUF 80 billion, almost half of which is over 60 days. Dear Secretary of State, What will the government do to resolve this serious financing crisis? How much resources do you use to help the KLIK? Or would you rather let him go bankrupt? What school year can we expect to start in September? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-07-06-235	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-07-06-236	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I'm sure everyone in every school can expect to start a school year. We've heard these speeches last year, and they're still questioning the fact that the KLIK will work and the budget will work, but it still worked. Obviously, it is in the government's primary interest to ensure that all teachers, all students, are satisfied with the requirements. In fact, it will not only work as it did last year, but also the wage increase that teachers will receive from 1 September this year, we will also pay them, which is more than HUF 30 billion in excess of last year's plus 120 billion. So these will be insured. We have also tried to simplify the everyday practice of budget and farming. You are well aware that the KLIK centre in Budapest has handed over driver's licenses to the districts of the county seat. You know as well as I do that you have the opportunity to request a treasury card for the heads of the institution, precisely to see exactly what kind of funds you can manage and to spend it on this treasury card. Obviously, this amount depends on the number of students, the number of teachers, the profile of the institution, the condition of the school building and its equipment, so it influences exactly how much the treasury card can be spent. At the same time, it is important that the territorial differences that were given from the more than twenty years of municipal reservation can be reduced, and obviously, where additional resources were needed, the government has already done so and will continue to do so to compensate for these inequalities, since the KLIK's mission is to be born anywhere in Hungary, in a rich or poor settlement, in Western Hungary or in Eastern Hungary, with the same chance of learning and acquiring the same knowledge. So until now, and beyond that, the government has provided and will provide all resources. Obviously, what had to be changed to the KLIK system, and he did it last semester. Thank you very much.
u2015-07-06-237	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, József Kovács, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources a question entitled "Semmelweis Day." It's for the congressman.
u2015-07-06-238	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, As we all know, July 1st of every year is the biggest holiday in Hungarian health care. On this day Ignatius Semmelweis was born, the savior of mothers. He was the first to consider the fever of the child not as an individual disease, but as a result of an infection. He found out that this infection was spread by the doctors themselves, that the obstetricians who performed the autopsy were handing it over to their female patients who examined the infection. As a solution, Semmelweis fought for the introduction of chlormell solution hand sanitization, but in his life his discovery fell to deaf ears. Even after his death, medical science did not notice his invention until years later, when Lister's English surgeon method, the carbonic hand sanitization, began to be used, revealed Semmelweis' epochal discovery. Today, a combination of the two methods is used before surgery. Ignác Semmelweis also bears the name of a museum of medical history, a plaque and the University of Budapest. Ignác Semmelweis, the inventor of the cause and cure of child-bed fever, was born on July 1st, 197 years ago. We need to see that healthcare is not just a question of financing, medicine, instrumentalism or even careers: if the human factor is lost, health will not succeed, it will not be what the citizens of the country deserve. [[16.30]] The quality of domestic health can be maintained if there is also the self-sacrifice of the workers there. It is a pleasure that, with the parliamentary decision adopted this year, we also confirmed the public appreciation of the Hungarian profession of patroness, the service. In relation to Semmelweis Day, we are celebrating not only the birthday of mothers' saviors, but also giving recognitions to healthcare workers across the country. At the biggest festival of Hungarian health care, we commend the perseverance, fitness and dedication of health care workers. I respectfully ask the Secretary of State: how have we managed to commemorate this extraordinary day this year? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A rare applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2015-07-06-239	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-07-06-240	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This year, too, all the medals that have been handed over each year have been handed over. During the last term of government, we decided that 1 July was not just a day of memory, not just a holiday, but also a holiday for those who work in health care. That way, we may be able to highlight their work even more, for when people see that once on a weekday in health care there is only an on-call order, how much difference does it make, they see their work better, but above all, so that those working here feel the increased appreciation. However, 1 July this year was not only about these awards and celebrations, but also about legislative amendments came into force on 1 July. For example, 43 thousand health professionals who work in a sickbed also reported a start-up day for raising wages or earning income, as the salaries of the multi-shift nurses or doctors for whom the mobile wage share was frozen in 2012. This was released by the current government, which gives them more than HUF 7 billion in extra wages, and the coverage of the continuation is included in the 2016 budget. So the following month, on 1 August, will be paid on the basis of the basic salary increased by the wage increase. It is also important to legislate on 1 July that a new system of higher education education in health has been launched. It is very important that residents are now paid by the central budget, so hospitals have become more interested in the employment of residents, because the money they have spent on the wages of residents has been released, but if they hire more residents, it is not an additional source for them. This problem has also been resolved, that there was no room for residents, a reception hospital. A total surplus of HUF 6.8 billion was also planned to provide employment and training during the 2016 budget planning. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] July 1st this year is also famous for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-241	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Anita Heringes, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister for National Development: Is that how you get on your own as a family? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2015-07-06-242	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, In recent years, István Tiborcz and Ráhel Orbán, a company with their own family interests, have come with a great deal of income, such as the public lighting in Zalaegerszeg, which cost 1.8 billion. Pécs' father-in-law even allowed him to borrow money to upgrade the street lighting. Several press organisations and OLAF are already sharpened, even investigating the LED lighting applications won and implemented in several settlements by a company famous for being the head of a stand-alone family, István Tiborcz. And then let's look at the examples that really upset people, and that really makes them feel like the horse's foot is hanging out here somewhere. Since last year, new LED lamps have lit the street and the bridge on the road between Margit Bridge and Zsigmond Square in Budapest, for example. These modern lamps cost 139 085 HUF, while the same lamps were placed in 217 805 HUF near the local shopping centre on the road to Keszthely. And what's the difference between the two types of lamps? It's who delivered it. While the cheaper one is the manufacturer itself, the more expensive one is István Tiborcz's company - he was still his company. That is why I ask the Minister: how can this be? With people's money, public money, EU money, nothing's expensive? Where does a young man have to apply if he wants to be on his own? Do you have to marry or marry the child of a Fidesz Member or Secretary of State? Is that the recipe? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2015-07-06-243	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary, answers the question. I give you the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-07-06-244	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Your faction does not ask this question for the first time, and therefore it gives me the opportunity to reiterate my answer and confirm what was said earlier. The State does not participate in the conduct of public procurement and the selection of the winner. In this case, the beneficiaries of tenders for the development of public lighting - the municipalities - will conduct the necessary public procurement in an open procedure, and at the end of the procedure the best tender selected in accordance with the rules of the Public Procurement Act will be awarded; the decision will be subject to appeal. The municipalities prepare and conduct the procurement procedures on their own, so the invitation to tender and the documentation, and the related detailed technical annexes, are prepared on behalf of the municipalities. After the successful procurement procedure, the municipalities conclude the contract with the successful tenderer. According to the laws and invitations to tender, the government has no or no influence on the procurement procedures of the municipality or on the selection of the winners. [[Interjection from the ranks of the MSZP: You don't believe that!]] According to the law on the local governments of Hungary, the mayor is responsible for the safety of the management of the local government. The management of local authorities, as you know, is controlled by the State Audit Office. As the Prime Minister said earlier on a question such as this, no one in Hungary can benefit from the advantage, but at the same time there is no disadvantage in its origin or family relations. [[Intercoms from the lines of the MSZP, among them: That's it! I've got the key to the secret!]] and not because of his political views. The government has insisted and will continue to insist on this in all its decisions. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2015-07-06-245	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Dóra Dúró, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources:. When do they make the employment of teachers who have reached retirement age lifelike? It's an address. Congresswoman Dóra Dúró has the floor.
u2015-07-06-246	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, That's 1700/2012. According to the government decision, the CLIK must retire the person who reaches the retirement age and the necessary period of service. However, retirements during the academic year interfere with the performance of school tasks, causing serious problems in the development of students. Taking into account that government decision that the posts of retired civil servants, government officials and government administrators cannot be filled, public servants and government service relationships cannot be established and that no contract of mandate or undertaking can be concluded for the performance of the task, this even makes it impossible for schools to provide for replacement. Since the CLIK substitution system does not operate without problems, tasks cannot be performed everywhere. The obvious solution would be what the National Pedagogist Faculty suggests: if teachers and teachers who have started a given teaching year, if they undertake it, they can complete it, even though they have completed the retirement age during the academic year. This principle applies, for example, to the regulation of the age of compulsory education, so it will cease not on the day of loading but at the end of the academic year. By March of each school year, it would be advisable for the KLIK's study districts to assess which teachers reach the retirement age in the next academic year and to show how many of them will undertake to carry out the tasks they have started until the end of the academic year. On this basis, I ask the Secretary of State: when is it expected that progress will be made on this issue? When will a lifelike solution serve the interests of children and educators at the same time? I'm looking forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-06-247	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2015-07-06-248	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Mr President, Dear House, Retirement is subject to the retirement age, and this will indeed happen in many cases in teaching times, since they were not born on a pro rata basis between 15 June and 31 August. Therefore, the solution itself is that since you cannot retire in the previous academic year, either at the moment of loading or at the end of the academic year, as you said. [[16.40]] There is a legal possibility for this, since a derogation from the government through the employer may be requested up to a maximum of one year, at least three months before the retirement age, when a person receives this further employment opportunity by the end of the academic year. Thus, this opportunity is open to schools, the KLIK. If you plan to retire in advance, you do not have to change teachers during the year, whether you bring in a substitute or a new colleague, but it is enough at the end of the academic year. It is an important measure of the government, and we want to maintain it, so that anyone who reaches the retirement age retires for his well-deserved rest, as it is an important tool for young people's imports and is used in many places within the European Union as well. This is how they create opportunities for young people to get jobs, jobs and careers. So we do not want to change the main principle itself, but after the adoption of the law, we have created a legal option in the regulations to ask for a six-month, quarterly and a few months' leave for work after the retirement age has been reached. We trust that those who plan well as leaders will take advantage of this opportunity. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-07-06-249	Thank you, Mr Secretary, for your answer. Dear Parliament, Bernadett Szél, representative of LMP, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Economic Affairs a question:, How much does the failed foreign policy cost us? It's an address. It's for the congresswoman.
u2015-07-06-250	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, It would be very difficult to set the Eastern opening policy as a success, and our exports to the Eastern countries have dropped sharply, while the government talks about nothing but the acquisition of new markets. Meanwhile, the Azeri axe killer, the secret Paks pact, the Quaestoros Csaba Tarsoly, which operates several trading houses outside, or the diplomatic passport of János Kóka and the arrested agricultural attaché, Szilárd Kiss, show what the so-called interest-based foreign policy means for the government. Apparently, it's nothing more than a foreign policy of private interest. In this above-spoken doctrine, you have no room for principles, no values, no allies, no friends, no short-term reconciliation. We can see that clearly. The opening of the East has narrowed our scope and ability to assert our interests, while not producing economic results. But this poor quality of trade costs the country a great deal of money, as it has recently shown. The network of trading houses, Magyar Nemzeti Kereskedőház Zrt. It generated a loss of almost HUF 2.5 billion in 2014. Of these, 1 billion forints were sold to advertising and so-called experts, while the largest amount was exported for 72 million forints. I would remind you that, according to the original plans, Merchant House Zrt. should become self-sustaining by 2016, at least null. I'm a little worried because there's only 29 trading houses that have lost, but until the end of the cycle, you're planning to open 117. So I ask the Honourable Secretary of State what they are doing to ensure that the trading houses in the future at least generate their own operating costs and finally help small and medium-sized enterprises. My second question is what is the guarantee that the announced southern opening, quoting József Torgyán's Chilean cherry, will not repeat the same mistakes and recreate these situations. My third question is, what are the criteria for success and failure at all, and what targets can be called on you in the short term, in a year's time, or at the end of the parliamentary term. These are the targets I'd like to hear. I would be honored to thank you in advance for your reply. [[István Ikotity applauds.]]
u2015-07-06-251	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Secretary of State of Magyar Levente.
u2015-07-06-252	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It is an important issue, Madam honourable Member, but it is difficult to have an objective debate on an important issue, since the introduction or questioning of this issue is already tenuous in itself. In this case, the figures and arguments you mentioned, that the opening of the East would be a failure, namely because we have reduced exports to certain Eastern countries, simply do not hold their place, or at least can be considered tendentical. These claims were made for a year when the Hungarian export record to China, our largest partner in Asia, has never been so high; Japan has also seen an 18 percent increase in exports to the Philippines, South Korea, Malaysia and a number of other important Eastern countries. Of course, there are relations, see Russia, Ukraine, see one or two Arab countries to which Nokia has delivered, which have lost a significant part of our traffic for geopolitical reasons outside of us. However, I would not write this at the expense of the trading house. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The trading house is a new system, a new institution, which started its meaningful operation about two years ago. He runs a global network, 30 offices. It cannot be expected, but this is not the primary task of the trading house to generate the costs of maintaining it after such a short period of time and to generate significant profits. I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Member to the fact that the indirect profit, the indirect state and national income, which comes from the fact that the trading house conveys hundreds of shops, exceeds the public expenditure on it by magnitude. Let me give you just one example: last November, a Korean event led to the creation of some 21 billion businesses between Hungarian and Korean businesses. This was entirely organized by the trading house. In this way, the State's revenue from the trading house is more than several times higher than its expenditure. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2015-07-06-253	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, We will now turn to the last question of our extraordinary session. Speaking next, Mr Gergely Farkas, Jobbik Group, who wishes to ask the Minister for Agriculture: what does the government do to protect Hungarian wine producers from cheap Italian imported wines? It's an address. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Farkas.
u2015-07-06-254	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Jobbik's representatives have repeatedly spoken about the situation of wine- and wine-growing farmers. I have also dealt with the subject myself, as my hometown, Kecel and its surroundings are particularly concerned with the issue of wine production. The biggest problem remains the wines from Italy, which have flooded the Hungarian market in previous years, even though we know how disastrous they have had in the past on the domestic prices of grapes and wine. Unfortunately, it seems that it will be no different this year, as you can already hear the news about the autumn buying-in prices, which are largely due to the unreally cheap Italian import wine. In addition, even in the event of a serious loss of money, Hungarian vineyards cannot leave their difficult position, as many have planted grapes with an EU tender, which they will have to cultivate for ten years. Of course, valid contracts must be respected by everyone, but the government would be obliged to protect these people, whether by taking market-regulatory steps or by further tightening the controls on imported wine. Although last summer's government decree increased the earliest possibility of placing imported wine on the market to 90 days from the date of purchase, the effect of this was only temporary, it lasted three months, and unfortunately the technical difficulty of the control mark and the import is not seen at buying-in prices. I also find it particularly sad that the government is not taking action against the situation, because there are several pro-government Members sitting in Parliament whose settlement or himself is concerned about the issue, I could mention the MP of my neighbouring city, Soltvadkert, Sándor Font. So I ask the government what it does to protect Hungarian wine farmers, Hungarian wine producers. When can farmers expect a real solution to the problem, when will the period of promise and appearance solutions end? What effective steps are taken before the harvest begins to stop imports of wine destroying honest Hungarian farmers so that this year's buying-in prices will not be broken? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2015-07-06-255	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The question will be answered by Secretary of State István Nagy. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2015-07-06-256	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, The Ministry of Agriculture has been monitoring the effects of imported wines on the Hungarian wine market since 2011. The Member may also be informed if he follows what has been said at the public meetings of the sub-Committee on Wine and Wine of the Committee on Agriculture. Wine lots imported for further processing from outside the borders of Hungary represent an additional risk from the point of view of control, so we have increased control of the market processes from that date. In order to preserve the stability and effectiveness of the Hungarian wine market, it is an important step that the National Council of the Mountains has been recognised as an inter-branch organisation in May 2014. One of the important results of interbranch organisation is that the National Council of Mountains introduced a control fee to finance the additional control of wines without a geographical indication. The measure was also extended by decree to non-mountain members, thereby ensuring its effective implementation. With the establishment of cleaner conditions in the internal market, the possibilities of selling Hungarian grapes and wines made from them have improved significantly. I have to say here that the export market for Hungarian wines has been stable for years, and despite the smaller crop results, we have been able to maintain our positions. The import, use and administration of imported wines will continue to be strictly monitored by the National Food Chain Safety Office. We consider it necessary to maintain strict controls as there is still the possibility of counterfeiting in the market for cheap wines. [[16.50]] This is demonstrated in the recent weeks by the case of an Italian winery, where some EUR 30 million of counterfeits were discovered in the region of Emilia-Romagna in Italy. We also consider it an important step to ensure the effective coordination of the work of the wine authorities, customs authorities and mountain judges. In the recent amendment of the wine law, the wine-sector authority has the possibility to immediately check the import wines entering the country. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] With this amendment, I think the monitoring of imported wines can be significantly improved. Thank you for asking.
u2015-07-06-257	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Dear Parliament, Mr László György Lukács turned to the President in order of business and asked to speak as a matter of personal concern. Congressman, I'll give you the floor in two minutes.
u2015-07-06-258	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, On account of personal concerns, I asked for the floor because, not so long ago, Minister of State András Tállai made a statement concerning my person in the immediate questions, in which Kun-Mediátor Kft. of Karcag and Jobbik and Kun-Mediátor Kft. of Karcag, which was famous in the broker scandal and tried to wash and connect my person. [[László Varju intervenes.]] The Secretary of State has basically escaped from the meeting, but he has done nothing but repeat the crime on which I have already filed a complaint, and they are investigating the statement with the Central Investigator's Public Prosecutor's Office. However, the Secretary of State can improve this, if he asks his fellow Members to issue his immunity in his case at the beginning of the next session, and then, as a real man, he can prove whether his accusations or his defamation will stand the test of time. However, we can safely state that neither my person nor Jobbik had anything to do with Kun-Mediátor Kft. and the activities carried out there, and we can safely say that this was the cft., or that he was the leader of the Fidesz delegation to the local committee, who, by the way, had drawn the road to Székelyföld, Minister Sándor Fazekas, and Minister Sándor Fazekas at the residential forum. So not only does this person and this broker scandal have something to do with Jobbik, but whether you like it or not, and you should finally accept András Tállai, the broker scandal of the Fidesz. I reject it on my part and, of course, repeat the legal steps that must be taken. Thank you very much for putting me in such a favourable position, András Tállai, he will have failed his many trials in this case. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-06-259	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, This brings us to the end of the agenda, so the issues. We will now continue our work with speeches after the agenda. After the agenda, MEP Mónika Bartos, Fidesz Group, came forward. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-07-06-260	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, What world do we want to pass on to those who come after us, the growing children? We have asked this question many times here, within the walls of the House of the Nation, and this central idea of Pope Francis is very much awaited by Laudato si, Blessed Bless you! in his encyclopaedia. CHAPTER VI Since Pope Paul, the subject of creation protection has been increasingly present in the papal documents, but this is the first one that is all about it. The papal document is divided into six chapters. The first chapter contains a summary of today's scientific problems, particularly water, biodiversity, climate change and ecological debt, which, according to the pope, must be turned into a personal problem for everyone. The second chapter, unlike traditional Scriptural interpretation, contains, but is very understandable, certain Bible texts from which the responsibility of creation protection comes. In the third chapter, the Holy Father describes the causes of the problems. According to Pope Francis, today the logic of technocratic rule is leading the world, according to which man wants to conquer everything, but this must be changed and temperate. In chapter 4, Pope Francis states that man cannot view nature as an independent reality; he raises the need for a new kind of solidarity not only between generations but also within generations. What we can and must do is deal with the fifth chapter of the encyclical, the Pope's answer: let us step out of the spiral of self-destruction and be responsible people. The Pope raises the role of politicians and other responsible people. According to the Holy Father, mankind still has the ability to cooperate in building our home together, but it emphasizes that we are at the 24th hour. In chapter six, a kind of ecological spirituality emerges, Pope Francis emphasizes: culture and education are needed for change. The encyclical is divided into chapters, which open up certain topics, but all of them pervades and integrates the entire papal document with several messages for all of us. The Holy Father emphasizes the importance of dialogue, he believes it is a means of facing problems and solving them, calling on all of us, regardless of religion or world view, to be open and ready for dialogue. Ecological conversion is needed, he says. It draws attention to the fact that enthusiasm following the realization of problems is often followed by waning and frivolous irresponsibleness. The Pope warns us to be vigilant and calls us, we're in the 24th hour, we can't slow down. This is particularly true this year when we are preparing for the Paris climate summit. My fellow Members, we must all take this seriously. Pope Francis warns us that we are not alone. Human existence is based on three fundamental relationships that are closely linked to one another: the relationship with God, our neighbor, and the earth. The breakdown of this harmony leads to the crisis surrounding us. The misconception of absolute rulership over other creatures, excessive anthropocentrism, unrecognizance of the limitations of scientific progress, the pursuit of immediate profit instead of the social capital invested in people, the violation of solidarity and friendship lead to environmental damage. Why is that? Because there is a link between environmental and social and human issues that can never be torn apart. Therefore, the analysis of environmental problems is inseparable from the human, family, workplace, urban environment, and each individual's relationship with himself. There are not two independent, one environmental and one social crises, but a single and complex socio-environmental crisis. The cultural crisis has deep roots, and it is not easy to redefine habits and behavior. That is why it is important to be educated and thus to switch to a different lifestyle - for all of us. We cannot wait for others, the preservation and construction of our shared home is the responsibility of all of us. In the highly anticipated, welcome by many, but also triggering a number of critical manifestations, the Holy Father invites us to engage in dialogue and a conscience examination, asking us to ask ourselves: what world do we want to pass on to those who come after us, the growing child? Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-07-06-261	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju, an independent Member, also spoke after the agenda, with the title "In the context of the extraordinary meeting." I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-07-06-262	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Now that the government has left us permanently, I cannot tell you that it is truly enjoyable, the way Jobbik and Fidesz are embarrassing each other here, while we are witnessing today the good cooperation that has been achieved with the supervisory board of the Hungarian National Bank, that the opposition has given its name to two-thirds of the laws, while the government is apparently unable to deal with these laws, and that is why this deceitful attitude that they are doing here, I think, is not the real opposition attitude. On the other hand, what is related to today is my topic, which is basically linked to the school year here, I would like to say a few sentences in school matters. This is also the case because it can be presented through a unique case and it can be perceived how and in what way the education policy of this government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, appears and what effect it has. [[17.00]] And this is not related to what the Secretary of State in charge of the wallet said that they were satisfied with their work. Well, let's look at this satisfaction, how it appears in a specific institution, in a specific school! In this case, which I will name, there is essentially a situation in which the series of public education scandals, which involves the appointment of school directors, and many other problems that have arisen this year during the operation of the KLIK, appear in particular in the significant difficulty of the functioning of the schools, and what is very, very important is that it is not surprising that, in essence, after the complete absence of developments, personal issues also develop. Especially if the government works in such a way that it wants to decide everything itself, and in this case, in the case of the Great Antal High School of Budafoki Buda. What we see is that students, parents, teachers who have given their opinions and said who they want to work under, are completely ignored by the government, essentially because of friendly relations. After all, it takes a few good schoolmates just to be a real school principal, to be a high school principal, then and in a situation that, as I mentioned, parents, teachers, students don't want. But let us look at the details of this, because while the members of the board, parents and students unanimously declared to this 80-year-old institution, as students and employees of high school, what they would like to do in the future, under whose leadership they would like to work, while, with the support of the Secretary of State Fidesz of Budatetény and Bertalan Czunyi, a new player appeared, who turned out to be a fellow student of the Fidesz Vice Mayor of Budafoki, so they will try to override the opinions of all students, teachers and workers in such a school-friendly society. The real question is whether a school that wants to be successful in this institutional system, which Fidesz has developed, really deserves to fight it, can an institution that is not otherwise supported by the government be successful in such an environment. I believe that there are many questions that need to be asked, because the message of the government is clearly against the freedom of education and the possibility of choosing the best leader on the basis of professional arguments. It is therefore necessary to protest and support parents and students who will do so on Thursday this week; they stand up for their right to defend their educational institution against government oppression, Fidesz terror, and to preserve their freedom to work with a leader they otherwise consider worthy of. I trust their success. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2015-07-06-263	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Sallai R. Benedek, LMP Group, also spoke after the agenda. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame.
u2015-07-06-264	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. A number of colleagues from Jobbikos and the only Independent Members who have remained here at the last minute of the last day are present. I chose this novel title for Margaret Mitchell in my speech because it seems that the evaluation of Fidesz's policy and government over the past period cannot be said much more than that the wind slowly blew away all hope and opportunity.In 2010, I will tell you honestly, even though I was already LMP, but I was very confident that the Fidesz government would make a meaningful change in Hungarian society, but in the next four years we had to see that the leaders of the criminal brigades were replaced, and there was no meaningful change. After that, when I came to Parliament in 2014, I thought that constructive opposition could play a role and make legislation better, but the last year has largely pointed out that there is no such thing; there is a simple one-party system 2.0 where a party can dominate in all respects, and the opposition has no role here, apart from maintaining the appearance of democracy with its presence, but in fact not dealing with it. Obviously, in my repeated despair, when I see how the Hungarian Parliament works, how it serves the interests of purely business interest groups, I take out Hungary's Fundamental Law, the National Creed, and I read how we should function. I'm surprised to see that IX. Article 1 (1) says that everyone has the right to freedom of expression; at the same time, they have made a propaganda machine in Goebbels from public televisions, public service providers, and here the right to express their views on the level of government, and the others, as far as possible, can only talk in their circle of friends. Then Article X (2) says that the state is not entitled to decide on scientific truth; however, it is possible to turn the acacia, an invasive alien species into a hungaricum and to proclaim it as a hero, because obviously the government is not subject to what the Constitution says. He says it's XII. Article 2b is that everyone has the right to free choice of work and occupation and to enter into a business. Well, that's the first time I can say that I'm laughing at my appendix - so who has the right here, who has the opportunity to choose such things? ! What are we talking about when the percentage of small and medium-sized enterprises falling three times in the last six months and slowly if there is no public work programme, there is no employment? So I do not know how this fundamental right will be guaranteed. The second, when, I think, these Comandorian MEPs smiled quietly when they wrote this down, it was the same for women and men. Well, obviously we could talk for a long time here, and my fellow Member would do so. But what bothers me as a family man is XVI. Article 1, in which it is said that all children have the right to an adequate physical, mental The State is not entitled to decide on the issue of scientific truth; however, it is possible to turn acacia, an invasive alien species into a hungaricum and to proclaim it as a hero, because obviously the government is not subject to what the Constitution says. He says it's XII. Article 2b is that everyone has the right to free choice of work and occupation and to enter into a business. Well, that's the first time I can say that I'm laughing at my appendix - so who has the right here, who has the opportunity to choose such things? ! What are we talking about when the percentage of small and medium-sized enterprises falling three times in the last six months and slowly if there is no public work programme, there is no employment? So I do not know how this fundamental right will be guaranteed. The second, when, I think, these Comandorian MEPs smiled quietly when they wrote this down, it was the same for women and men. Well, obviously we could talk for a long time here, and my fellow Member would do so. But what bothers me as a family man is XVI. Article 1 where it is said that all children have the right to adequate physical, mental (...) development; everyone - except for those living in the Hungarian countryside, where they cannot renovate the physical education halls, where there is no normal movement culture development playground, because European resources are being stolen from the country, from which this should be made; where there are no resources to pay suitable teachers, there are no IT rooms. But the Fundamental Law also says: " Parents have the right to choose the education to be given to their children. What? When they tell you what to learn from Bible or morals, when they tell you to go to kindergarten from childhood and spend as little time with your grandparents or family as possible? How do you do that? Then the Fundamental Law also says that all employees have the right to work conditions that respect their health, safety and dignity, and says the same thing in Article XVII. Article 1:. Each employee shall have the right to daily and weekly rest periods and annual paid leave. These two articles say that we are practically unconstitutional in the employment of public workers who are not entitled to the salary provided for in the Labour Code, who are not entitled to the same minimum wage as the State, and where is that working conditions that respect their health, safety and dignity are in place? ! Obviously, this is where the country operates unconstitutionally. But he says it's the 19th. Article 2 is that, at least in the event of unemployment which has not occurred in the event of sickness, disability, disability, widowhood, orphanage and self-abuse, all Hungarian citizens are entitled to statutory support. But what laws are they using to kick people out of wheelchairs to go back to the labour market? What laws do they expect do not create working conditions? Obviously, because of my profession, my favourite thing is that everyone has the right to physical and mental health. I wonder what the Hungarian government is doing. But not a lot, because one by one, poison stores are going down, and we're not going to do anything about it. According to the Fundamental Law, every Hungarian citizen has the right to carry a public office in accordance with his capacity, qualifications and professional knowledge. Well, in this public office, it is the Fidesz, and very, very few who have managed to remain in the leadership position in this country differently! And if I go through the various stages of the Fundamental Law, I must conclude that all those who created the Fundamental Law can throw this out because they are crushing it themselves, and the last year has served me to prove it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2015-07-06-265	Dear Parliament, Mr Tibor Bana, Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda with a title to the memory of Kálmán Széll. I'll give you the floor in a five-minute time frame. [[17.10]]
u2015-07-06-266	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, A hundred years ago, in 1915, Kálmán Széll, former Prime Minister, died, and I would like to commemorate him in the next few minutes. Kálmán Széll was born in Gasztony on June 8, 1843 in a family proud of his noble traditions and role in the 48th. His father served in high public offices, and he was a Member of Parliament. The fatherly friendship of Ferenc Deák associated with this family background. Young Kálmán Széll started his studies at the Benedictine High School in Sopron, then continued his studies in Szombathely at the Premontrei. He graduated from the Faculty of Law of the University of Budapest in 1863 and obtained a degree in law two years later. He began his career at Ratoth as a servant judge. The young lawyer was preparing for a political career, and in 1869 he was elected Parliamentary Representative of the district of Szentgotthárd. After that, he served his county with even greater momentum, especially the case of Szentgotthárd. In recognition of his work, he was asked to be Secretary of State for Home Affairs at the age of 28, but he did not accept this. Like young Széll's age and generation, he began researching the constitution and public law. However, Ferenc Deák gave him a different direction, so he took financial studies on his advice. Soon he became the country's most respected financial authority. He was involved in the Parliament's life, mostly in the financial committee. In 1875 in the Wenckheim government, he welcomed the appointment of Minister of Finance. Its first culmination is its ministerial activity. He resigned from his ministry in 1878 at the ocupation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, in order to prevent a war conflict. Then came the most versatile era of his life. At the request of the banking circles in Vienna, he managed two major financial institutions with great diligence and great devotion. He kept his mandate and took the fate of Szentgotthárd with his heart. Kálmán Széll became Prime Minister of the country at the age of 56 - from 1899 to 1903. Under his Prime Ministership, 120 articles of law were issued. The work of preparing a modern and targeted law was also remarkable from a European point of view, and the new tax forms introduced, the settlement of money and banking, show their professional competence. He wanted an easy-to-understand, well-functioning public finances. At the head of the government, he was a politician seeking reconciliation and cooperation. Soon after his resignation from Prime Ministership, he returned to political life. He took on the Presidential function of the Constitutional Party. Meanwhile, in 1905 his district re-elected him as a representative. During his decades of activity - between 1869 and 1911 - he did a great deal for the development of Szentgotthárd. In the early 1870s he urged the construction of the Győr-Szombathely-Graz railway line. The Győr-Szombathely section was opened in October 1871 and the rest of Graz was built in 1872-73. Contemporaries attributed their personal intervention to the fact that the tobacco factory was established in Szentgotthárd in 1894. Originally designed for Szombathely, yet opened its doors in Szentgotthárd. This was the first factory in the city, where ten years after its departure over 900 women worked. The county seat, Szombathely, was envious of the growth of Szentgotthárd. The newspaper Vasvármegye commented on the settlement of the tobacco factory Szentgotthárdra as follows: "Szentgotthárd has taken another important step forward. His unrelaxing work and self-sacrifice of his ardent leaders can thus far show such successes that are most unparalleled in the lives of smaller rural centers. Szentgotthárd, his good intellectuals and his renowned representative will grow as soon as possible, develop... Now Szentgotthárd competed with Szombathely, and apparently triumphant. The first state high school in the county was also opened here. In 1891, a High School Committee was formed on the proposal of lawyer Dr. Gábor Vargha. Kálmán Széll was asked to chair the committee, who later had a significant role in the city's approval to launch a high school. The opening of the school year took place on 4 September 1893 in an extremely festive framework. The newspaper Vasvár County reported the event in detail. He emphasized that the city's intellectuals have always fought hard at the border for the sake of the Hungarians, but he lacked the most powerful weapon, the school. Széll said modestly of his own merits:. I had to qualify in competent places, perhaps urging, perhaps in a harassing way, but after all, the success of the movement launched a year and a half ago, which many people doubted, can be said bravely today. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. He died on August 16th, 1915, in Rotot. On the birthday of Kálmán Széll in 1916, a worthy commemoration was held, at which all the men of all rank and order of the city appeared. At the ceremony Gábor Vargha opened a cup in memory of the politician with the following inscription:. Széll Kálmán Memorial, 8 June 1843 - 16 August 1915, the Szentgotthárd Reading Society. The politics of Melle's career were etched in the concepts accompanying her along the lines of law, law, justice. Dear Parliament, As a Member of the Parliament of Szentgotthárd, I particularly respect the work of Kálmán Széll. Let us keep his memory, as his life course may be an example to all Members of Parliament, regardless of party standing. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-06-267	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr President Novak, Jobbik Group also spoke after the agenda: L. Simon László, who wrote obscene poems, lied about the obsceneness of Jobbikra. I give you the floor, Congressman. I wish to express my wish to you before your speech, from the quotes, please spare the Parliament. You have the floor.
u2015-07-06-268	Of course, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State L. Simon László started out of himself when, at the parliamentary meeting on 1 June, he understood the idea of shouting about bank accounts opened in Vienna instead of confectioners opened in Vienna, my fellow Member Dániel Z. Kárpát in the context of the parliamentary genre - i.e. by yelling at him - as an initial cursing, and in the reply of Mr. State Secretary, in his speech as a representative of the government, when we had no opportunity to reply, he asked to report the interrogation of my fellow Member. My fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, immediately protested at L. Simon László, who admitted that he didn't hear it exactly after all, after all he didn't hear it, but unfortunately, he admitted this to Dániel Z. Kárpá in private. I think that we have now rightly demanded in a statement and also in the House Committee, in the interest of the dignity of the Parliament, that the Secretary of State apologize publicly, follow the rightful representatives involved in the matter, since the case he set out by L. Simon László, which he dictated in the minutes, the swearing did not take place. Unfortunately, nothing happened after that, and even in the news, the dignity of the Parliament was unwarranted, unfortunately, this time the titles of which - to quote the Index for example - were lost in the debate on Jobbik's EU position. However, I would no longer quote the description of the article for the dignity of the Parliament. Similar was the coverage of MNO or News TV: the debate between Jobbik and Fidesz went up to the cracks. It became clear in each article that according to L. Simon László, Jobbik's representatives did so, even though we try to refrain from doing so. The interrogation is a parliamentary genre, said Péter Harrach, former KDNP vice president of the Parliament, in fact on the first working day of Jobbik's National Assembly, when we were still a little bit upset that - unusually - they intervened during our speeches. And if a KDNP parliamentary vice president says that, then I think we need to take it to heart. Yes, if it is not obstructive, it is not intended to disturb the meeting, it is not to constantly yell at, but rather to shout out short yells, such as when L. Simon László dictated it to the record - according to the record, a statement from Jobbik's benches: Don't lie! Then it's quite appropriate. It is all the more appropriate, because it seems that László Kövér, applying a rather double standard, has always sanctioned opposition representatives, never before fined a pro-government representative. He would not even ask for a simple apology, not even to ask L. Simon László, who not only questioned and slandered the honour of the better Members, but also, I think, that he has brought the Parliament into the bad news in a way that insults the dignity of the Parliament, because this time there was no obsceneness in the Parliament. And why do we say that L. Simon László started out of you? Because, perhaps even somewhat well-known, the poems published by the current Prime Minister of the Orbán Government, former Secretary of State for Culture, contain obscene texts, which would otherwise cause a legitimate outrage if they were spoken in Parliament. Therefore, I do not quote, nor quote, even though his own volume was published under the Medgyessy government on public money. The publication of the book was supported by the Ministry of National Cultural Heritage and the National Cultural Fund programme, these self-serving obscene and obscene poems, if any, can be called a poem, in many cases a gibberish. I think it is a shame of the Parliament that, after that, such a person could be both the Chairman of the Cultural Committee of the Parliament and, later on, the Secretary of State for Culture. But if it wasn't enough, then, starting from himself, he continued to slander both Jobbik and Parliament. And if László Kövér doesn't make it clear here in some form, whether by reading the Presidential Board, then we, Jobbiks, had to defend our dignity and the dignity of the Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[17.20]]
u2015-07-06-269	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Kulcsár, Member of the Jobbik Group, has also applied for a speech after the agenda. I give you the floor.
u2015-07-06-270	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2015-07-06-271	Excuse me, Congressman. I didn't tell you the address of your speech:, What does the government do to protect the Hungarian wine..., sorry:, What must happen in order to close the refugee camp in Debrecen? It's an address. I will follow you, Congressman; it seems that the sitting was long today. You have the floor.
u2015-07-06-272	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Last week's events and riots around the Debrecen refugee camp have already been discussed in many places, but I would like to add some new information to this topic. When these events took place, the media found that two campers formed a minor conflict of religion, and this became more of a fight and an outrage. According to our information, it doesn't cover reality. Inside the camp, the campers were acting the way they were, let's just say it doesn't really fit in the cultural circles. They may have used some kind of mind-altering agent, or they may have abused an unfortunate animal, a sheep, which is already exhausting the criminal category of animal cruelty. Several video footage, news, footage of the events on the street were ravaged by criminals calling themselves refugees. But beyond the footage and the events, it was when they heard the reactions of the liberal parties that the Debrecen were really beating the fuse. One of them wants more refugee camps in the country, and another representative of the liberal dwarf party sees immigrants as valuable. But perhaps this competition, this wind-liberal race, was won by DK, it is true, in close competition with the Ensemble. DK's representative said earlier in this regard a day or two before the riots. Referring to immigrants, he commented on the following Facebook entry:. Usually they are on the edge of the sidewalk in order not to take away the space, the place from us Hungarians. They're beating me like dogs with their heads down. They're scared. There's something to it. This was the capacity of the representative of the municipality of DK in Debrecen. We've seen the footage, it doesn't really cover the reality, and the opposite is true. But it was not enough that these events took place, that gentleman and the representatives of DK stood up even after the events, even after the abuses and crimes, and distributed chocolate and water to immigrants. There is also little mention of what was publicized at the last General Meeting of Hajdú-Bihar County; Jobbik's representatives asked the Chief Officer about the health risks related to refugees and illegal immigrants. The Chief of Medicine said that when it comes to health screening, there are several cases of HIV, TB and infectious hepatitis. In fact, this infectious hepatitis occurs more often in the ranks of immigrants than in the entire county. So, among nearly 450,000 residents of Hajdú-Bihar County, there are fewer infectious hepatitis patients than immigrants. When we asked what would happen to these people, it was the chief of staff's answer that they usually didn't wait for the results to come, disappear, and who knows where they were. Well, in addition to public safety risks, this health risk could be a serious threat, and if this process accelerates, even more so. That's why we protested yesterday in Debrecen, next door to the refugee camp. More than 800 people have come to our demonstration to call for the refugee camp to finally be closed. We have been demanding this here in Parliament for years, in the municipality of Debrecen and in many forums, but we have found deaf ears. Fidesz didn't do anything about it. People also said after the protest that it was also a lie, as many pro-government politicians have said in Parliament, that there has been no complaint around the refugee camp for a year. Of course there's no complaint. Complaining all the time. It's one thing that they don't always press charges, but everyday brawls, scoundrels, loud noises, and disturbs the people who live there. Last week, after the events, Fidesz politicians, politicians in Hajdú-Bihar County and Debrecen also said that from László Pósán to Lajos Kósa, to Mayor László Papp, that the refugee camp should be declared closed. We're very curious about the government's move. We would like the government to embrace this idea and declare the refugee camp in Debrecen closed, just like all the refugee camps in the country. And our second request, our demand, is to move these camps outside of populated areas. This is in the interests of the Hungarian people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2015-07-06-273	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Parliament meeting will take place in September. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your cooperation, thank you for your work, all my fellow Members and colleagues from the Parliamentary Office, and I wish you all a good rest and a good summer. The meeting's closed. Thank you very much. [[The meeting ended at 5:26 p.m.]] László Földi s. k. Nándor Gúr s. k. notaryNándor Hegedűs Lorántné s. k. Mirkóczki Ádám s. k. notaryDr. Lajos Szűcs s. k. notary
