u2019-12-11-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. The 19th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, notary Attila Gelencsér and Bence Tordai will be of assistance to me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work by taking decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear Parliament, Next up is H/8034 on the commemoration of the Uprising in Timisoara. Decision on the proposal for a summary amendment to the decision and the final vote. The legislative committee's proposal for a summary amendment is H/8034/9. H/8034/10. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the Legislative Committee H/8034/9. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 167 unanimous votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/8034/11. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 169 unanimous votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The H/8035 on the declaration of the year 2020 to be the Memorial Year of Miklós Zrínyi. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/8035. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the resolution proposal with 169 unanimous votes in favour. T/8039 on the amendment of certain laws relating to public procurement follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8039/4. T/8039/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/8039/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 112 votes in favour, 38 against and 20 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8039/6. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 111 votes in favour, 38 against and 20 abstentions. Next up is T/8023 on the amendment of certain laws on the subject of justice. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8023/7. T/8023/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. § 4 of the LMP Group proposed that amendments No 2 and 3 be maintained. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 2 is proposed by Lóránt Keresztes. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 110 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 3 is proposed by Lóránt Keresztes. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 110 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/8023/7. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 136 votes in favour, 16 against and 18 abstentions. [[11.10]] It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8023/10. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 135 votes in favour, 16 against and 18 abstentions. Next up is the 2016 XXX on defence and security procurement. T/8031. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8031. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the bill by 112 votes in favour, 57 against and without abstentions. It follows that T/7847 on the amendment of certain health legislation for harmonisation purposes will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7847/5. T/7847/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/7847/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment with 155 votes in favour, no votes against, with 15 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7847/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 153 votes in favour, no votes against, with 17 abstentions. It follows from the T/8018 on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the development of health services and the reduction of the activities of service providers of uncertain quality and unclear background. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8018/5. and its summary report is T/8018/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/8018/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 154 votes in favour, 1 against and 14 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T-8018/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 154 votes in favour, no votes against, with 15 abstentions. It follows from the 1996 LXXXI on corporate tax and dividend tax. T/8040. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8040/6. T/8040/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/8040/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 113 votes in favour, 57 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8040/8. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes in favour, 58 against and without abstentions. It follows that T/7842 on the amendment of certain legislation concerning the financial intermediary system and public finances and economic stability will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/7842/4. T/7842/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/7842/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] Parliament's summary amendment by 116 votes in favour, 19 against, 30 [[There are 35 abstentions on the display.]] accepted with abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/7842/6. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] [[11.20]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 113 votes in favour, 19 against and 39 abstentions. It follows that T/8021 on social security benefits and the coverage of those benefits will follow. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8021/14. T/8021/15. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Section 4, the group of the LMP proposed the continuation of amendments Nos 3 and 4 of the MSZP Group to amendments Nos 6 and 7. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 3 is proposed by Márta Demeter. The adoption of this proposal excludes Amendment 6. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 110 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 6 is proposed by Tamás Harangozó and Lajos Korózs. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 109 against and 5 abstentions. Amendment 4 is proposed by Márta Demeter. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 59 votes in favour, 111 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 7 was tabled by Lajos Korózs. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 112 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts 8021/14. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 113 votes to 20, with 37 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8021/16. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal by 112 votes to 20, with 37 abstentions. The 2017 LIII on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing follows. Act T/8028 amending certain related laws Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/8028/5. T/8028/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/8028/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 149 votes to 1, with 19 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8028/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the single proposal with 150 votes in favour, no votes against, with 19 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The 2014 LXXVI on scientific research, development and innovation follows. Act T/8032 amending certain related legislative provisions Decision on the proposal for an amendment before the final vote and the postponed final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament decided to postpone the final vote at the meeting on 3 December, the national T/8032/9. A proposal for an amendment to the final vote was tabled. The legislative committee's proposal for amendment before the final vote T/8032/10. and T/8032/11. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The house rules are 55. On the basis of paragraph 1 of Section 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament shall decide on a proposal for amendment before the final vote by a single vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the legislative committee 8032/10. The amendment tabled before the final vote. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament shall decide on the proposal for an amendment before the final vote on the basis of paragraph 1 of this Article by a single vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the legislative committee 8032/10. The amendment tabled before the final vote. Please vote now. (Vote.) The Parliament adopted the amendment before the final vote by 113 votes in favour, 42 against and 14 abstentions. After the Parliament has adopted the amendment before the final vote, we will decide on the amended single proposal in the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the amended T/8032/7. A single proposal. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended single proposal by 114 votes to 42, with 14 abstentions. It follows the T/8441 on the National Cultural Council, on cultural strategic institutions and on the amendment of certain cultural law. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. [[Representatives of MSZP, DK and Dialogue stand up and hold a black mask in front of their faces.]] I would remind you that, according to our decision on Monday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/8441/4. T8441/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, With all due respect, I would like to ask my fellow Members to take their seats and continue their work. [[Members shall remain standing in their seats. Noise.]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/8441/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 114 votes to 53, with three abstentions. The final vote now follows, in which we decide on the text of the bill as amended by the summarised amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/8441. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the amended bill by 115 votes to 53, with three abstentions. [[Gergely Harvesto: Culture killers! László Szászfalvi: Zorrok! The standing congressmen will take their seats.]] Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. [[It's constant, it's loud. The president's ringing the bell.]] I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles by representatives of Lóránt Keresztes and Krisztina Hohn LMP in order to release the public utility tax in the water sector CLXVIII of 2012 on the tax on public utility lines. T/6617. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 58 votes in favour, 109 against and two abstentions. [[11.30]] I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles with the title H/6918 by the representatives of Péter Ungár and Antal Csárdi LMP. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 58 votes in favour, 110 against and 1 abstention. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles by Ferenc Gyurcsány, DK, and his fellow Members, H/7887. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution in a series of 36 votes in favour, 108 against and 24 abstentions. I ask you, you will be listed in a series of articles by Bertalan Tóth, MSZP, and its fellow Members, H/7582. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 58 votes in favour, 111 against and 1 abstention. I ask you, you will be listed in a series of articles by Bertalan Tóth, MSZP, and its fellow Members, H/7269. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 56 votes in favour, 114 votes against and 1 abstention. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles on the enforcement of the transparency provisions adopted by the new Capital Assembly at the Hungarian municipalities with the title H/7961. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 54 votes in favour, 114 votes against and three abstentions. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles entitled "Szabó Timea, Dialogue, Representative" H/7730. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution with 56 votes in favour, 112 against and 3 abstentions. I ask you, you will be included in a series of subjects by Bence Torda, Dialogue, Representative. The 1993 XLVIII on Mining. T/8022. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 57 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 111 abstentions. I ask you, you will include the Z. Carpathian by Daniel, Jobbik, Member, T/7951. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament did not include the bill with 58 votes in favour, 111 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, Next up is 5/2018 on the establishment of parliamentary committees, the election of its officials and members. Decisions to amend a decision. S/8461 put forward by the President and S/8471. You can find out more about the suggestions on the website. I would like to ask Mr Attila Gelencsér to present the S/8461 tabled by the President. The content of the personal proposal.
u2019-12-11-1	5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Section 1 of the parliamentary decision is amended as follows. The National Assembly elects Dr. László György Lukács, Jobbik, instead of János Stummer, Jobbik, Chairman of the Committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2019-12-11-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/8461. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal by 170 votes to one, with no abstention. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask notary Bence Tordai to present the S/8471 presented by the President. The content of the personal proposal.
u2019-12-11-3	5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Point 2 of the OGY resolution is amended as follows: instead of Dr. László Varga, MSZP, the National Assembly elects Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP, Vice-President of the Committee. This Decision shall enter into force on the date of its adoption.
u2019-12-11-4	Thank you, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/8471. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament's proposal by 161 votes in favour [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] , 1 against, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, I thank you for your cooperation, and we have reached the end of your decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] [[11.40]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats. Perhaps our fellow Members who wish to leave the Chamber for an urgent public task, please do so quietly and briefly, as soon as possible. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, I declare that T/7842 on the amendment of certain legislation concerning the financial intermediary system and public finances and economic stability. The number of votes cast was wrongly announced in the decision of Amendment No 4, the number of votes cast, the number of votes cast is correctly 116 yes, 19 sexes and 35 abstentions. Thank you for your understanding. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian National Bank's business report and report for the year 2018 and the joint general discussion of the resolution proposal for its adoption will follow. Report submitted by the Hungarian National Bank B/6066. and the proposal for a decision submitted by the Economic Committee, H/8144. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, After my fellow Members have taken their seats and the private consultation has been completed, I now have the opportunity to give the floor first to Mr György Matolcsy, President of the Hungarian National Bank, the author of the report. Mr. President, please. Thank you.
u2019-12-11-5	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank worked successfully and effectively in 2018, as it has done every year since 2013. Successfully, because he fulfilled all three of the mandates laid down by law and managed effectively because he achieved a positive result, even a profit. We prepared a detailed report on the operation of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank in 2018, and after I assume that everyone has seen it, owns it, and even read it, allow me, Mr President, to highlight only a few facts and links that mark the central bank's operations in 2018. The fulfilment of the three mandates means that the Hungarian National Bank, as required by the mandate approved by the Parliament, protected price stability in Hungary, maintained and ensured financial stability and supported the government's economic policy. To this end, we have pursued a so-called loose monetary policy, which has been beneficial to all economic actors, especially public finances, investors, investors, employers and workers. In 2018, the Monetary Council maintained its core core interest rate unchanged and thus created a stable and predictable financial environment. I would like to point out, Mr President, that, in 2018, one of the most important indicators for monetary policy and, by the way, for the financial world, BOBOR was set up at 12 basis points, which is close to zero, and this also indicates the importance of a stable, predictable and favourable financial policy. The Monetary Council decided to issue the three-month deposit instrument by the end of 2018, which we wanted to do a long time ago, in fact in 2013. It worked in 2018, I think it's a breakthrough. The value of annual inflation was 2.8 percent, so very close to the target of medium-term inflation, and, of course, within the band, this indicated price stability. The Hungarian economy reached a record increase of 40 years in 2018, reaching the highest economic growth of 5.1 percent at the time horizon of 40 years, and according to the calculations of the central bank, about half of this was supported, supported and replaced by central bank programmes. The central bank's programmes have made a significant contribution to the significant reduction in public debt interest expenditure in the budget, from 4.3 per cent of gross domestic product to 2.3 per cent since 2013. This is a huge thing in Hungary, because since the 1970s we have been carrying with us a high debt that has become indebted, including the debt of the state, and after that we had to pay very significant interest on the debt; this has decreased in magnitude. Between 2013 and 2018 the budget saved HUF 2400 billion in interest rates, only HUF 800 billion in 2018, which is expected to be another HUF 900 billion in 2019. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank managed effectively, since it achieved a positive result of nearly HUF 50 billion. This was achieved in a welcome structure, because the interest rate result continued to show profits and even higher profits compared to the previous year. Thus, the interest rate result and the exchange rate gains together give a positive result of nearly HUF 50 billion in 2018 in addition to other smaller items. I think we all received the news with national pride that the Hungarian National Bank brought home the gold reserve of the central bank. There are countries that have not yet, some that bring them home now, just in these weeks; gold belongs at home. And I also think that it is worth a historical act to record that we have raised Hungary's gold reserve tenfold in terms of strengthening national consciousness. By doing so, Hungary restored its former historical reserve base in 1945 in 2018. [[Bence of Tordai will be replaced by Gergely Arató in the notary seat.]] In 2018, as previously and ever since, and we continue to do so, Magyar Nemzeti Bank attaches special importance to the turn of competitiveness. On behalf of the Prime Minister, we have summarised the turn of competitiveness in a volume, in a monograph entitled Competitiveness and Growth, in a report on competitiveness, in the growth report we provide a thorough analysis of competitiveness, and in February 2019 we published the programme of the Hungarian National Bank for 330 points of competitiveness. [[11.50]] We have built a competitive mirror because we think that the time has come in Hungary to measure everything; that everyone's performance, including the state's performance, the performance of the entire Hungarian economy, because we can only fix what we measure and we know where it stands. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear House, The Lamfalussy conference was held again in 2018, it was a great success, and it became one of the leading forums of the European Union's economic public opinion. In September 2018, we restarted the growth loan programme with a HUF 1000 billion framework with the title NHP fixed, focusing on the financing of competitiveness-enhancing investments, asset accumulations and asset investments. We consider it a very important breakthrough that, from 2013 onwards, the growth loan programme replaced a negative 5% change in loan stocks and a credit increase in Hungarian. This meant a 14 percent increase in loans in the corporate sector in 2018, 7.3% in the residential, household and family sector. This is a very important development, a very important breakthrough. To this House, I am releasing the Hungarian National Bank's non-secret but fundamental method of calculation. This means that if in Hungary, let's say, the company and family loans increase by 10 percent together, then this increases the gross domestic product by 2-2.5 percent. Therefore, it is very important not to decrease, to decrease, but to expand. Dear House, The proportion of rated consumer-friendly housing loans increased significantly, reaching 68 percent by the end of 2018. I consider it a breakthrough, with 30,000 consumers choosing the consumer-friendly housing loan scheme by the end of December 2018. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Let me also say that the Hungarian National Bank continued its previously launched educational programmes in 2018, and I can report a breakthrough here too, because the MNB's excellence scholarship programme has reached 500 excellent students in economic and economic education in the 2018-19 academic year. Dear House, Let me conclude that the operation of the Hungarian National Bank in 2018 together with the figures for success and effectiveness prove a single, true, very important economic and economic relationship, and this is that the solution is inside. Every economic success, every economic turnaround, and finally the secret of an economic miracle is always inside. Not in external grants, but in smart use of internal resources. This is demonstrated by the fact that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's programmes, decisions and operations gave HUF 10 200 billion to the participants of the Hungarian economy between 2013-18. This, of course, is always precisely price-related to the same amount that Hungary received from the EU; HUF 10 200 billion. We produced this on the inside, together. This consisted of several large items, as it included the budget savings, the interest rate on government debt, which was HUF 2400 billion between 2013-18, including the reduction in the burden on households, families and companies' loans, which amounted to HUF 2900 billion in this period, including the HUF 2800 billion credit line of the growth loan programme, which was used by 40 thousand micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and, of course, the family budget relieved by the introduction of previous foreign currency loans: HUF 2100 billion was saved by families. That's HUF 10,200 billion. Again, it strengthens the historical, economic and economic perception and the fact that we need to look inside for the secrets of using resources as smartly and efficiently as possible. Dear House, On behalf of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, I thank you for supporting our work every year and in 19 from 2018 and 13 onwards, and, of course, in the next report, I will go to the results of 2019. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you so much for inviting me. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-11-6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur for the Economic Committee, rapporteur for the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
u2019-12-11-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, At its meeting on 18 November 2019 the Economic Committee discussed the Hungarian National Bank's business report and report for the year 2018 and listened to the oral briefing of President György Matolcsy. The committee decided to submit to the House a proposal for a resolution before you on the basis of a report by the National Bank of Hungary, in the light of which the Parliament must assess the activities of the Central Bank in the previous year. On the basis of the report, the Economic Committee concluded that the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's business report and report for the year 2018 comply with the requirements of the law and provides a thorough and detailed account of the tasks, monetary policy and supervisory activities of the Hungarian National Bank. Dear House, It can be said that the Hungarian National Bank has been profitable since 2013 and has achieved a positive result of HUF 47.8 billion in 2018. The development of the result has played an important role in the fact that the persistently loose monetary conditions and central bank programmes have supported not only the achievement of the MNB's primary objective, but also in the fact that the interest rate result has continued to be profitable. Since 2013, the central bank has actively supported the government's economic policy, first by launching the growth credit programme and then by launching the growth-supporting credit programme. On 18 September 2018, the Monetary Council decided to launch a new NHP fixed scheme for growth credit, with the primary aim of improving the structure of SME lending. The new construction with a budget of HUF 1000 billion at the beginning of 2019 is the same as the earlier phases of the NHP in terms of the main parameters and the method of execution. The stable, shock-resistant capacity of the domestic banking system is strong both in terms of liquidity and loss-tolerant capacity. The dynamic expansion of corporate lending continued in 2018, with an increase of 13,6 percent on a transaction basis. The annual growth in SME lending amounted to 10.1 percent, including transactions by self-employed workers. However, the expansion of corporate lending has not taken place in the desired structure in recent years. Dear Parliament, During 2018, the Monetary Council of the Hungarian National Bank ensured the maintenance of loose monetary conditions by using the non-conventional toolbox and fine-tuning it in order to achieve the medium-term inflation target and to stimulate the real economy accordingly. In 2018, Hungary's international reserves increased by EUR 4 billion, amounting to EUR 27.4 billion at the end of the year. In October 2018, the Hungarian National Bank purchased gold worth approximately EUR 1 billion, increasing the stock of precious metals from 3.1 tonnes to 31.5 tonnes. The programmes implemented by the Hungarian National Bank after 2013 represented HUF 10 200 billion in savings and additional resources for domestic players in the economy by the end of 2018, which is essentially the same as the amount of funds coming from the European Union to Hungary in the current period 2014-2020. [[12.00]] Ladies and gentlemen, Since March 2013, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank has been effectively shaping the economic policy of Hungary and working effectively with the Hungarian government. The President, as well as the results of the Central Bank this year, confirm that the Hungarian economy is developing, wages and pensions are rising, and this is felt in the everyday lives of Hungarian citizens. The operation of the Hungarian National Bank also helps the Hungarian government to reduce the debt accumulated by socialist governments year after year, to increase employment and to support Hungarian families. On behalf of the Economic Committee and myself, I can say that in 2018, the Central Bank carried out its tasks in an exemplary manner and contributed effectively, in cooperation with the government, to the expansion of Hungary's economy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-11-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The representative of the Government indicated that he did not wish to present a position during the debate. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Sándor F Kovács, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2019-12-11-9	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member, Sándor Hadházy, explained in detail the position of the Economic Committee on the report and report of the Hungarian National Bank for the year 2018. In my keynote speech, allow me to address some important points on the report. Firstly, I would like to draw attention to the importance of effective cooperation between the central bank and the Hungarian government for the financial stability of the Hungarian economy and Hungary. According to the report, the Hungarian National Bank closed a successful operating year in 2018. Dear House, One of the most important tasks of the Hungarian National Bank is to help the government operate and support economic policy. The report shows that the dynamic growth of the Hungarian economy has accelerated in 2018, and GDP has increased by 5.1 percent, about half of which can be attributed to the central bank's programmes. Since 2013, the budget's interest expenditure has decreased from 4.3 per cent of GDP to 2.3 per cent of GDP. In 2018, this meant more than HUF 800 billion in budget savings, so since 2013, interest expenditure on government debt has been reduced by HUF 2400 billion. In 2018, both the total corporate and SME loans grew dynamically, the SME sector's holdings in credit institutions increased annually by 11 percent, while the total corporate sector's credit portfolio, including large companies, increased by almost 14 percent on a transaction basis. Magyar Nemzeti Bank launched the market credit programme in 2016, under which the central bank intended to establish a long-term incentive scheme for market-based lending through interest rate swaps with commercial banks. In the last year of the programme, the banks achieved an SME loan increase of nearly HUF 600 billion, i.e. more than 260 percent, which significantly exceeded HUF 227 billion. Dear Parliament, Domestic lending processes were also characterised by an increase in credit holdings in 2018. On a transaction basis, households' loans increased by 7.3 percent per year compared to the entire credit institution sector. Banks faced an increase in demand in both housing loans and consumer loans. In addition to the other incentive measures of the Hungarian National Bank, the rated consumer-friendly housing loan scheme supports the spread of mortgage loans with lower interest rate risk. The proportion of rated consumer-friendly housing loans increased to 68 per cent by the end of the year within the monthly issue of interest periods of more than five years. The Hungarian National Bank brought home the central bank's gold reserve in the spring of 2018, thanks to the decision of the Monetary Council of economic importance, and in October it increased its volume tenfold, from 3.1 tonnes to 31.5 tonnes. The Golden Book was published in October 2018 in memory of these two events. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank started to renew the banknotes used in cash traffic a few years ago, which is basically completed today. The renewed 1000 Forints appeared from 1 March 2018 and spread dynamically in cash traffic, so on 31 October 2018 the Hungarian National Bank included the old 1000 Forint denomination versions. As the last member of the renewed series of banknotes, the issue of the 500 HUF regulation issued by the Hungarian National Bank took place on 4 July 2018, the banknote denomination entered into cash circulation from 1 February 2019 and gradually appears in line with the requirements. The important activities of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank include cooperation with universities, which was typical for 2018. In addition to the earlier university collaborations with the Corvinus University of Budapest, the Budapest University of Economics, the University of Sopron, the University of Miskolc, the Reformed University of Károli Gáspár, the Hungarian National Bank also concluded a cooperation agreement with the University of Nyíregyháza. Within the framework of the implementation of the Social Responsibility Strategy of the Hungarian National Bank, the Hungarian National Bank announced for the third time the programme of excellence scholarship of the Hungarian National Bank in the economic sciences and master's programmes related to the activities of the central bank by the academic year 2018-19. In the 2018-19 academic year nearly 500 students of 27 higher education institutions in Hungary could receive the scholarship. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian National Bank fulfilled its legal tasks last year, fulfilled its expectations and objectives, and successfully carried out its work in the interests of the Hungarian people. On behalf of myself and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, I would like to thank President Matolcsy and the employees of the Hungarian National Bank for their successful, cooperative work, the results, successes and positive economic effects of which will greatly help Hungary to develop. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-11-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpa, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Congressman, please.
u2019-12-11-11	Mr President, Dear House, I'm not sure if I'm gonna be popular with this on the opposition side, but I'm gonna put myself on the list of those who are not far from creative central bank practice, or if the portfolio is broadening compared to the core activity, and, where appropriate, the activities of the central bank will also appear in areas where this was not necessarily the case in the past. As an economist, I am absolutely open in these areas. That's why I'm wondering where Mr. President is. With great respect to Mr Vice-President, we have already conducted a productive consultation to prevent him from taking this as a provocation on my part or against his person, but I find it amazing that, while the President of the State Audit Office, with whom we may undoubtedly have more profound debates, can sit through such a debate, I do not understand how urgent the public task of Mr President can now be. [[12.10]] Believe me, I don't want to start by reading the index.hu article about the suspicion of abuse of various properties, because I'll leave that to the press. This should be a professional debate, and I am trying to keep it that way, especially since the excellent experts who spoke before me held it there, were essentially economic issues; I am trying to talk about them. But how am I supposed to ask Mr. President my questions? If he comes back again in terms of a closing phrase, how will he hear what the one-time Member of Parliament would like to know from him? Are they really taking this debate that seriously? We really don't even give in to appearances anymore? This is an amazing situation, and I don't understand it, because exactly the reputation of the central bank is at stake. So I really don't understand this behavior. I hope you have an explanation. I would like to tell you that, yes, the legislative background, according to which the MNB supports the government's economic policy with the means available, is a tangible thing, and I think we should start on this path. What I do not understand, however, is that the representative of the government also indicated in the debate last year that he did not wish to present a position, and I do not see the leading members of the government here now, even though there is a legal obligation, which is about the MNB helping the government's economic policy. Now the subpoenas, so whoever's supposed to be doing their job is not in the room. I understand that you want to know the mandatory agenda, but the fact that you don't give it to appearances, the set, the illusion, it's quite insulting, and it doesn't hurt me personally, I can take a lot from you, but there are hundreds of thousands of voters behind us, and you don't respect them; and now I'm turning to government leaders virtually at least, if they're not here anymore, they're not respected by those who can't sit through an hour and a half debate on such an important issue. I'm really shocked. I also see, turning to Mr Vice-President, moving things towards the profession now, at least by trying to do so, that the report of the Supervisory Board did not come before the plenary session, which I also cannot interpret. As I understand it, the members of the Supervisory Board are also appointed here, in or around this building. I don't understand why the supervisory report shouldn't come before us in a big package, why we can't discuss it in its depth. I was also surprised by the expression by the Fidesz speaker that he expressed great joy at how profitable the central bank is. I would like to tell you that the aim of the Hungarian national economy is not to make the central bank profitable. The central bank is not a profit-oriented organisation, as I understand it, but, if we consider it so, its main shareholder, in relation to the Hungarian State, the practitioner of the rights would be the Minister of Finance, who is not in the room at the moment, and his agent is not in the room. Compared to this, Members who may be less familiar with this issue are pleased that the central bank is making a profit, and I say that no, the central bank has a statutory function, a system of tasks, very important tasks, which it must perform, but in no way in a profitable or profitable way. I remember their statements that confirmed that this was not really the goal. However, if you are happy with this profit that has been made on the side of the central bank, explain to me the Hungaricum why it will not be paid into the Hungarian budget. I understand that the legislation says that this is an optional option, not an obligation, as we say, in Germany. But if you are so pleased with the outcome of the central bank, why are you afraid? What are they afraid of? Why are you afraid to submit a proposal that obliges the central bank to pay its current profits into Hungary's budget? This is the custom in many developed countries. You have created a Hungaricum with this failed legislation. For example, there is money from foreign exchange creditors at the central bank, my fellow Members. It has just been said in the Expo that the foreign exchange credit conversion has generated a quote-signal profit, profit, and has been parked at the central bank for years. Why don't you support a piece of legislation that creates a compensation fund after you pay the current profits as a dividend, and you will help those who have been left evicted by you, who have been left on the side of the road and who have not been helped by you? I understand this feisty vehemency, but then this should be reflected in at least the introduction of draft legislation where we do not want to follow the Rwandan and not the Galaxy practice, but, say, the German practice that you so often and fondly refer to. Well, then, I want you to be more open on this issue. I understand the position of the MNB in this respect, there is a law on it that can be drawn up here, and he complies with the regulations that are there and obviously does not shake the fence enough to change these laws, because the main parties responsible are in this Chamber, not you. But it is quite clear that this legislative background is wrong in this form. And it's okay that the National Bank is not profit-oriented, but its spending is practically limited. We also see that although we can find some description of social responsibility activities on pages 56-58 that the central bank pays a great deal of attention to this and this is an area close to me, so I would like to say that although it was not designed to pass on public funds, but it is typically designed by large companies to spread their own capital as a form of PR activity in actions that are considered normal or philanthropic in the sense of social responsibility, but it is not far from me, it is a very important area, but since the MNB spends 5-6 percent of its operating costs per year, i.e. approximately two billion forints or more, for similar purposes, it would be good to find a breakdown of this, since we have information about the beneficiaries, and I think no one can do so much less of the specific rate. So I consider this to be relatively incomplete here, and it did not occur to me in the exposé of fellow members of government. But the most serious area that has not been mentioned is the recurring statement that the MNB does not have an exchange rate target, and then let's discuss it a little bit. By the way, I can accept, although it is difficult, my world vision is completely different, I could accept an MNB that, under other laws, tries to control the spill-over processes that, if necessary, will fly away the Hungarian forint. I don't understand the government of Hungary, I don't understand Sándor F Kovács, I don't understand the members of the government who stand up and dare to say a keynote speaker about the MNB debate without saying a single word about the amazingly weak exchange rate of the forint. You talked about something that doesn't belong here, the profits of the MNB, because it's not a profit-oriented organization, let's not be happy about this profit, or, if there is, pay it into the budget, change the legislation that we need to do this, even if you don't like it, and let's park this money where it belongs. But it's amazing that you don't dare say a single word about a weak forint, let alone don't want to, dare not. Under your governance, by means of a conscious strategy, and I do not say that only the government is responsible for this, because it would not be fair, but the Hungarian forint has soared [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas intervenes.]] You can grunt at anything, press a button, I will try to listen patiently, and I will respond to it, under your governance, the Hungarian population is subject to an unjustified burden of hundreds of billions per year. You can't lie to me either, Congressman. A smartphone costs 30-40,000 forints more. Not because of the Government of Hungary, but the government does not interfere in these processes. It does not require the central bank, let us say by means of legislative amendments or even by means of information, to try to control certain processes with at least the limited means at its disposal. You won't do that. A simple H&M, shiny piece of clothing can make a difference of 3-4 thousand forints. It doesn't hurt you, of course, Parliamentary representatives can afford to pay, but it affects the masses of Hungarians. With regard to imported food, fruit and vegetables, we are also talking about a very serious factor. You will have the Hungarian population pay the price of every imported product. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that weak forints are good for exporting companies. And then, fellow Members, let us examine who these exporting companies are. In very rare cases Hungarian micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises. I support credit programmes in this direction, by the way, especially if the money reaches the real recipients, and not, let's say, to subsidiaries or medium-sized companies of multi-company companies. But I have to tell you that the majority of exporting companies are multinational companies that are incredibly benefiting from one hand in Hungary, and in the strategic contracts signed with them they do not impose at least a slow approximation of Hungarian wages to the western average in terms of productivity tolerance and, thirdly, we also see that they have been given a sufficiently flexible labour code in order to make sufficient use of the workforce. Here we are, and in order to export these companies, among other things, you hold Hungarian forints weak, creating hundreds of thousands of billions of unwarranted burdens. I would like to hear that you do have an exchange rate goal, and I would like to hear that it doesn't matter whether the Hungarian forint is weak or strong, because the weak Hungarian forint is unduly burdened by an incredibly wide number of masses, and what you might be able to get there in the form of family tax incentives, on the other hand with 27 percent VAT, the weak forint, the reduction of the LTP state support and a number of other means will be virtually reinstated. [[12.20]] This is unacceptable, because I agree with you that we need a demographic turnaround, a fair family support system. I also read a background study where they suggested that birth numbers increase by two thousand a year in Hungary. Bravo! I agree, really. But why don't we just mark the tools for it? The current instruments are apparently insufficient, because Hungary has weakened in all measurable demographic indicators in recent years. In the last three years, the fertility rate has unfortunately frozen, started to decline, and the number of live births is breaking new negative records while more people are dying. It can be seen that without the housing crisis, the cataclysm, there is no way to achieve results in this area. I welcome the fact that the Central Bank has seen this problem, and in its various statements it is already trying to propose a solution to the problem, but the Government of Hungary is not a partner to you, it does not hear these voices. My fellow Member, Mr F. Kovács, was not brave at all once when it came to rents in Budapest or in Budapest, because the Government of Hungary condones these processes, tolerates the whole housing crisis, and does not act or interfere. I am not saying that an official freeze of the Berlin type would be good, and I would not support it at all, because I think that in Hungary it would strengthen the black economy or gray, but I say that the problem must be addressed. It should be noted that Hungarian people are forced to apply for a rent of 160 to 180 thousand HUF, this is not a healthy economic situation with the current wage level. I also see that there is a preferential loan in the case of CSOK, but the majority of users or those wishing to use it would rather be in need of the support sector, so that the aid that they can use in the case of a used property can also be measured. In the same way, we should have argued about the introduction of a reduced VAT rate for new-built apartments, because I think that was premature and should not have been taken out so quickly. These would all be legitimate debate funds. By the way, the Central Bank has noticed this problem, and I am confused that the Government of Hungary simply does not talk about it as if it does not exist, and hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens cannot change their lives in any meaningful way. I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that, yes, legislation needs to be amended and, as a dividend, the current central bank profits have to be paid into the budget, and we do not know much about a compromise, especially as long as foreign exchange money is involved. On the other hand, regarding the elimination of housing cataclysms, you will hear the professional analyses that the central bank articulates, but you will at the same time keep your ears shut for some reason. We also need to see that I don't want to quote the amount that was said in the expozee, how much you think you won in quotes, because I think this amount was inaccurate. The exact analysis would be about how much the commercial banks won if the forints won so much. Because we know very well that if someone took this so-called loan at 165 forints, you converted it to 256 forints. Where's the difference between the two? This very large amount has been credited to the accounts of the banks concerned as a legally abstract income, and no one can enter into this today, because legislation has credited what I believe should not have. These loans should have been at the rate of the day of admission, and I'm telling you that it should be forinted. That this is happening immediately or as a result of a multi-annual stepwise process is again the basis for a legitimate debate. But what I see is that in the light of the results of the banking system producing records at regional level, there would be room for manoeuvre, without seriously shaking this banking system. I would therefore like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that there would be plenty of work to be done here, there would be plenty to talk about, but not in the form of victory reports, but much more honestly than you have done. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2019-12-11-12	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2019-12-11-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I cannot accept what my fellow Member Daniel Z. Carpathian said. For my part, I think this Parliament horseshoe is a border area of politics and profession, where, let's say, it is now a debate on professional policy, obviously because of its own qualifications it has pushed it towards the profession, and I may be pushing it in a different direction. I think in the world, when we talk about national banks, there's always such a path. There is some kind of external image of this, and this external image is important not only because it makes you feel better to work at a workplace that people like, but also because it has a very, very serious impact on the economy and the exchange rate and much more. So when the question of the central bank, the national bank, is raised in any part of the world, people have a very positive world view of it. The question I would like to ask you is that if we stopped people on the street now and asked the National Bank what they really thought about the Hungarian National Bank, what sentences would be said from the people's mouth. What would they think of from the National Bank of Hungary? I'm afraid we wouldn't get a positive picture like the rest of the world. Why is that? Is it because of the person in charge, who I would like to commemorate, and who had to leave after his expo, or perhaps the cases, the presumptives, or the insanities that take place around the activities of the National Bank of Hungary, its public finances? I can't imagine anything worse, I can tell you honestly than if the credibility of the central bank is reduced, and I can't imagine anything worse than what you just said to Mr. President, in which you said that you were asked by the Prime Minister. I would very much like to know that in any developed Western European country where the foundations of the rule of law exist, there is a sentence where any President of the Central Bank says that I have taken the next type of action at the request of the Prime Minister or the President. I don't want to put the apple of discord between you now, why the government representative isn't here. I do not want to recite the debate here on why the central bank has to conduct an economic policy strategy, why the central bank has to say what the government had to do in hundreds of points, in a way which is still in need. This is in our view the task of the members of the government dealing with economic policy. I do not obviously think that this is a conflict-free world between you, as far as we can see from the press, we obviously do not want to go deeper into this. But yet it is a real question of who tells economic policy, personally the President of the National Bank or the National Bank itself is trying to make economic policy in this respect. Let's also talk about something important. My fellow Member made this more as an accusation before me, and I would like to be more specific. I find it absolutely amazing that the exchange rate of forints in some form is not an everyday topic of political discourse in this House, especially when we talk about economic policy issues. Today we can say that, according to analyses and measurements, we have one of the weakest currencies in the V4 or in this economic community, where it seems that the next period is envisaged. The Romanian lei, the złoty, the Czech crown are stronger money today than the forint. If we look at the last ten years, i.e. the 2008-2018 period 2009-2019, then we see that the euro has gone from HUF 230 to HUF 330. Now I would like to quote an important sentence: "The weaker forint is clearly contrary to the interests of the people. A weaker forint means a weaker state. Only weak people want weak forints. This was said in 2004 by Viktor Orbán, then opposition leader. [[Gergely Harvesto is replaced by Bence Tordai in the notary seat.]] The question is that you are weak people then, because it seems that you are artificially maintaining this kind of weak forint with a significant part of monetary policy and with all your decisions. In 2008, the current Prime Minister, as the opposition party leader, went so far as to resolve the forint weakening, the crossing of the 300 HUF border with a Prime Minister's exchange, as he assumed that the Prime Minister's exchange would create a trust surplus for the country that would immediately improve the exchange rate. If that position were maintained now, we would be able to support it with a good heart. To save the forint, we would even give up Viktor Orbán. What's going on these days? In 2008, the then government, together with the National Bank, had a concept of how to convert to the euro in Hungary. [[12.30]] You are some sort of, not entirely clear about what consideration, from this question, you are completely moved. Interestingly, in the political situation at that time, the majority of then's economic policy actors could have imagined this as a one- or two-year process. By the way, external analysts have also said that if all of these programmes were to be implemented, it would be possible for Hungary to become a member of the euro area in 2014. We don't even see that date anymore, and it's worse, and we don't really talk about it anymore. I presume, and this is obviously an economic philosophical debate, which we will not be able to decide between the walls of this House, but I believe that in many countries the vision of the export-enhancing effect of the weak currency has failed. Think about it, when the Japanese yen was artificially damaged by 50 percent, it had no meaningful effect on Japan's exports. And if you look at the infirmity of the British pound, you can't really see it there, of course there are many other reasons behind it. There is no evidence that competitiveness will improve in any way with weak forints. The wage competition should still be so much higher that we can enforce the kind of wage advantage we are also referring to, or at least hope that the euro will not go that far. So, I must say that the reason you are referring to is not supported in any way, but the effect of the high euro is precisely what the Member before me said, from the point of view of the people, is extremely harmful to everyday life. It is now apparent that the trade surplus is falling in Hungary and it can be said that any growth in Hungary is more a combination of domestic demand, internal market and less export growth. I would also like to say a few more concrete things, which I think has significantly improved the external image of the Hungarian National Bank. For example, there are the bond schemes. What we understand is that an acquisition of this magnitude or a national robbery, as announced by the NER in 2010, has a serious need for resources. We also understood that these resources had run out. So today we are proud to talk about what credit opportunities have been opened up, and in fact it is all about to buy almost all of Hungary's economic organizations from credit... These funds came from the commercial banks for a while, but the commercial banks were running out of options, and then they got involved in this noble competition, at least that's how we see it, and you're obviously going to say something else, too, and set up this kind of growth bond program. 300 billion forints is about to run out of this thing. And in this connection, it is also a question of why the Hungarian National Bank should buy shares in companies, private economic companies, which are clearly linked to the roof of NER, such as Duna Asphalt, Opus Global, Appeninn, Market. And we see, looking at the reports, that 50 percent of this type of stock package is already the purchase of shares linked to market players that are not justified by anything, and in fact it is all about financing the system of national cooperation. I would have liked the president of the Hungarian National Bank to have spoken about the State Paper Plus in his exposé. I understand that this is a different story, and I understand that you're trying to make it look like a success, but I would have liked it if the President of the National Bank had made an analysis of what the real impact of this would be on the economy, and, by the way, I'm thinking about it myself, trying to make a terrible amount of money at their disposal, legalize it in some way, and take out people who have made a lot of money in recent years. The only problem is that people will pay for it in the next period. Let's also talk for a moment about the right thing to do is that the president of the Hungarian National Bank, the management of the Hungarian National Bank, entrusts his son's best friend, a company called FrankDigital, with communication advice for nearly HUF 2 billion. This company has four people, two billion a year. Let's figure it out, it's not so bad, and then inflation is really less exciting, that practically one month, there's 42 million forints. It's not that bad, I'll tell you honestly, working for that. I would just like to add and memorize it here in parentheses, and I really don't want to appear here as a fact-finding journalist because I have been approached by Mr Z. Kárpát, that a lot of people suspect that this István Kry might be behind the new owner of MKB; there is such a mysterious owner who appeared at the acquisition of the MKB. So I don't want to go into these very long theories and discussions, we know that the whole point of a network society is to get to everyone by three steps, especially in a small Carpathian Basin country like ours, but I'm telling you, we're in a small country, maybe we can get to three or four. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar intervenes.]] So I think it's obvious that you can see it, but I really don't like the fact that you're getting this kind of communication advice for $2 billion, and then maybe the same person is getting into MKB with a substantial amount of money. The third one I would like to talk about is a change in the measurement of inflation. I am willing to accept that XXI. No 20th century. I am begging you to understand that when you say this, no one is talking about a scientific debate or is not looking at a scientific debate behind this, but we see that poverty measurement will be eliminated, there is no ergo poverty in Hungary. We adjust inflation measurement according to what is good for us, and if we look at longer trends, it seems that, in some respects, the decline in money, inflation and the increase in prices are very, very close to each other. And if you want to change inflation rates, why don't you start with what we talked about here today, we're gonna start with, I guess, the rents, the rents, let's say, in this basket, not by a few percent, but by up to 20-30 percent. The money spent on private health. We are convinced that in some respects you are deliberately shifting a significant part of the wealthier people from public health to private health. Number four. I'm running out of time, a little faster. I have already mentioned the trashing of the euro changeover, but the President of the National Bank has gone further than that with the vision of the Eurasian era, so when he announced that the euro was over, the euro was dead. The fact that this was once created against the Soviet Union under French pressure, the Soviet Union broke up, so the euro is not needed, so I think the world is a little more nuanced than that is XXI. In the century, it is better to look at this a little more sophisticatedly. But how can one jump from here be so big that suddenly the President of the National Bank says that it would be in Hungary's interest to join the Eurasian currency? Everyone who deals with politics in a proactive way knows that this is typically a thing of interest to Russian and Chinese geopolitical interests. Really, do we honestly believe that the future of Hungary is found in that kind of cooperation? I do not say that this should be underestimated, but then Hungary was successful, then Hungary was able to make progress, either in its history or in the modern period, when it was able to play that bridge in some respects between the East and the West. And by the way, our ancestors' desire of how, how to join the West, we wouldn't throw it away so easily. In today's daily.hu, I don't want to make advertising for anyone, there is an article, and we would have liked to have heard your opinion on how to buy something for money, give it to someone for free, renovate it with public money, and then take it back at market prices. However, I'll tell you honestly, if this happened a few years ago, when the D.A.'s office looked at these things differently, I find it hard to imagine that there was at least one investigation in this regard. Mr President, he started his speech by saying that the MNB is working effectively and that the MNB is working successfully. I'd say that's what I'd say, change the text by making the MNB work. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-12-11-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju, lead speaker of the Group of the Democratic Coalition, is coming to a speech. You have the floor.
u2019-12-11-15	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Mr. Vice President, Dear House, They live in a different world, and I think you and I are thinking about a different kind of operation. The role of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank, its activities and its method of operation are certainly different. [[12.40]] Within these frameworks, there are six points, some of which I think will certainly not be news to you, and on the other hand, if you do not want to change this situation, and I believe that you do not want to change the situation, the consequence of which is that in this sense we are not able to think very much about agreeing on this report. The story is about another world, we think about another world, because when the Magyar Nemzeti Bank starts acting as an entrepreneur in itself and in its activities, I think that this is neither expected nor expected nor expected of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank. Let's start with the first of six points, which, in that sense, I think is one of the signs that you want to do this differently. The report of the Hungarian National Bank was not allowed to be discussed in the Committee on Budgets. They did not leave the decision that the accounts of the Hungarian National Bank and the reports on its activities would not be received by the Committee on Budgets, but by the Economic Committee. This is, of course, primarily the responsibility of this House, but I think this committee should have played a role in this. We are therefore expressing our views as Members and Members. I believe that the Committee on Budgets is intended and is responsible for its cooperation with the President of the Hungarian National Bank, the Monetary Council in the Hungarian National Bank. You will remove everything from this, will not attend any committee meetings and will not give any information about their activities there. The consequence of this is that, for example, we have a very different opinion on the support and assistance of foreign exchange lenders, and that they are actually trying to grow there, so that they do not have to deal with them slowly, just know how many people have died in the way that you have agreed to do so! I completely agree, and we have the same view that your profits on exchange rate conversion should have been allocated to this area, not to separate foundations, first to say that this is not public money and nobody's business, and then when the court says that it is public money, they are now surprised that they might not have had to buy so many carpets from it, but rather to save lives through the budget, because otherwise it should have been resolved in this way. I don't know what they're planning and how they're going to do when they want to start working at Kecskemét University, because as long as they have to spend it on the stones, I think it's easier for them, but then, when they try to operate there under conditions far different from that of a lot of money and other universities, some of them may succeed in doing so within the NER system, and you will fund it in this sense, but hundreds of billions of forints, Mr Vice-President, are not for that. What should have been done was to help foreign exchange lenders in this regard. The other is what you have already heard from my fellow Members on a number of approaches to exchange rate policy. Allow me to supplement it by saying that you're doing a conscious exchange rate breach. You know exactly what you're about to do, and you're planning to manage the country at an increasing rate of forints. On the contrary, I continue to ask you that, in order to maintain the room for manoeuvre for your part in economic policy and partly for the activities of the Hungarian National Bank, you are fleeing from the introduction of the euro, which, let us say, would be in the interest of citizens, would be a much more reassuring, much better conditions. I understand that then you do not have the opportunity to distribute in relation to exchange rate gains, no HUF 50 billion per year that can be spent in this, and you do not have to do activities to prove that the Hungarian National Bank can, for example, become profitable or profitable in 2019. So in this respect, the Hungarian National Bank is doing what it does wrong, and I could say that the stated independence you are talking about is not such a thing. You, in your service to the government, are contributing to making sure that you are able to do your part within the framework, as you think. The next issue is actually about inflation, while I believe that your primary task is in this, what I am saying now in terms of inflation from the point of view of a smaller group, what is felt from the point of view of pensions, is quite different from what is among bankers with millions of payments. As long as pensioners get poorer and poorer in this country along the course of conscious currency abuse, which they don't perceive directly, but don't forget that, yes, there is a part of this that they feel, and this, for example, happened in 2019 at food prices, we can safely talk about food price explosions, there are huge differences in what everyday shopping now means. Finally, I would like to say one or two more things. One is the mechanism of operation that you and the Ministry of Finance are in such a far-reaching relationship, at least from a distance. It would be nice to understand and see, I could say, from a opposition point of view, in terms of future planning tasks, what is really in place for competitiveness. The 330 points of the Magyar Nemzeti Bank are the ones from which you sometimes take one out and try to do something about it, and something happens in it, or does the Ministry of Finance validate its own ideas? I also understand the debate that this may happen outside of it, but it is a huge difference of opinion that appears in the introduction of the euro or its possibility. Over the past year, let's say that every two months we have heard different ideas about what should happen, not about the introduction of the euro, but about the need to prepare for an economic crisis, or the reality is what may turn out here in the next few days is spending another HUF 50 to 100 billion just because, by the way, this is what is left of the reserve. This will, of course, be the decision of the government, but the assessment that at the moment it must be moderate, because a crisis is coming, or it is not actually expected to slow down, and therefore it is safe to soar, whatever construction is done, even meaningless, the point is to spend it, the difference between the two is enormous, and the Hungarian National Bank will of course serve it, where it says so. [[12.50]] Let us not talk about the ridiculous situation in which the President of the Hungarian National Bank has put himself, in which he willingly became a minister of the Russian-friendly Eurasian aspirations, and said the nonsense that we should think in this respect. Then a few weeks passed, and then he realized that he was sorry, but that the introduction of the euro should be dealt with, and then that would be the case. This is the performance of the last two months from the President of the Hungarian National Bank. What would you say if the president of the Fed said something like that? What would be in this world? While the whole system is built on trust, responsible people can make serious statements. I think one of them is definitely questioning right now. But there is no doubt that György Matolcsy's announcement did not trigger either a currency crisis or a market surge that would have caused any country to be in a difficult situation. My last comment relates specifically to the textual part of the written material, in which I once again see how different we see the world. I would just like to highlight one thing: the value of cash in circulation has increased by 17 percent since 2018, while you are constantly talking about how to reduce and reduce cash use, for example. But you forget to mention that one of the consequences of this and one of the reasons for this is the levy, the levy on transfers that you are imposing on private people. Of course, their reasoning here is quite different. I think it also shows that we are thinking differently in this regard. In conclusion, as far as the report is concerned, I would not be underlining the operation, but that your policy is a particular phenomenon in this national system of robberies, in which the Hungarian National Bank has its own responsibility. You will do this through the foundations set up, and that, Mr Vice-President, is the case even if you will tell us what wealth has been associated with the creation of foundations. I think you've taken away from people to use some of the things that would otherwise have been worth 100,000 people, and you should be ashamed of that. I cannot support this report in any way. Thank you very much.
u2019-12-11-16	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now it would be possible to make two-minute speeches, but I don't see a candidate. I therefore give the floor to Members who have applied for a speech in the normal time frame. First, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Mellár, Member of the Dialogue Group.
u2019-12-11-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, With regard to the MNB's policy, I think that the first sentence should be that the monetary policy turn in the post-2010 period was a positive turn, because instead of the former loose fiscal policy and strict monetary policy, the MNB has also introduced and participated in a policy in which monetary policy has become loose and fiscal policy has been rigorous. This was a very appropriate policy in the post-crisis period and in the period of deflection that had developed as a result of the crisis. However, by 2018, the situation has changed significantly and this mix of economic policies is in fact unsustainable. It is not because fiscal policy is not really a strict fiscal policy anymore, because in the years after 2016 a significant amount of EU funds came into Hungary, which generated a very significant surplus of demand in the economy, and the period of deflation disappeared from the world economy, as it found itself. Consequently, in 2018 there was indeed a 5.1 percent economic growth in the Hungarian economy, but it was created as an overheated economy. The Hungarian economy is a highly overheated economy. Not only do I say this, but the Economic and Financial Committee of the European Union has also stated that it has obliged or asked the Hungarian Government to reduce aggregate demand by at least 1 percentage point in terms of GDP. However, this did not happen. So this overheating certainly exists, because the Hungarian economy's steady-state growth path is somewhere around 3 percent, and I was still very, very optimistic at the time. Compared to this, the 5.1 percent increase means that we are well above the potential track. The signs of this are very good, by the way. On the one hand, labour reserves are running out, so more and more migrant workers need to be involved in the economy in order to continue this extensive growth. And, of course, the most important thing is that further growing EU funds are collected. At the same time, this overheating, of course, also occurs in the fact that the current account, which in previous years showed a very serious positive effect, had gone negative by the end of 2018 and that the surplus on the external trade balance also decreased significantly. I think that's what these signs show. Indeed, inflation is in the 3-percent target range and remains if you look at it officially. But my fellow Members who spoke before me have already mentioned several times that there are serious problems with inflation measurement. One of the very important things is that in 2018, inflation was measured by the use of the 2016 consumer basket. This means that very many products have been used as weights for products that may not even be very bought by consumers, and this raises very serious problems. When we have up-to-date information, when the big data is knocking on our door, I think it would take quite different recordings to accurately measure inflation. And of course, what my MSZP colleague mentioned is also very important that the cost of housing is not included and is not included, which, in turn, have increased significantly, precisely because of the bubble on the real estate market, which is also a sign of this overheating. But of course, what is unparalleled in world history is the fact that the Hungarian economy was able to achieve in 2018 that construction growth was 40 percent, and at the beginning of 2019 it was even higher, 60 percent. So this is obviously an artificially pumped economy that we're talking about, which is bound to pop, of course, we don't know when, and we don't know how, this bang is going to happen, but it can't be kept up, that's for sure. This would actually be the first thing about the state of the economy. [[13.00]] The previous speakers have already mentioned profitability, i.e. that the MNB is profitable. Well, of course, it's obvious here that the MNB doesn't have such a job to be profitable. Of course, it would not be good to have a loss of money, but it does not have to be one of its goals. Obviously, we all know that most of this profit was created because of the significant weakening of the forint. Clearly, forint weakening has brought significant benefits on two fronts. One of them was the exchange rate gains generated by the conversion of MNB's foreign reserves and the conversion of EU funds. At the same time, when we talk about the fact that the MNB has a profit, it should be said that foreign exchange lenders have a loss on this, and the problem of foreign exchange lenders is still not solved. We live with these people, who have to pay back multiples of their original loans. But by the way, there is another great loss, and this is the loss of society's wealth. The fact that 260 forints now cost three hundred thirty-something forints a euro also means that the Hungarian national wealth is being devalued in euro or internationally, so it is becoming cheaper and less and less. One must bear the costs of this, too. The next thing you talked about, Mr President, is competitiveness, and you proudly said that the MNB has a competitiveness programme. My colleagues have said that it is not necessarily necessary, and that there is no need at all for the MNB to have a competitiveness programme, since it is not his responsibility. But, of course, this task cannot actually be solved in the given situation. It is not possible because in order for an economy to be truly competitive, it is necessary to have an education system. The MNB cannot help by supporting one or two doctoral schools, by launching one or two elite programmes, because competitiveness depends essentially on the skills, qualifications and intellectual and cultural level of the middle class. In this respect, however, we are lagging behind. In addition, competitiveness, of course, depends on what our institutional system is, how inclusive it is or how disqualified it is. Now, in recent years, it has been seen that the Hungarian institutional system, the institutional system of the Hungarian economy, was of a very significant form of exclusion, and therefore competitiveness could not have increased. What does it mean to be disqualified? It means that artificial monopolistic situations have been created in many areas, on many branches. So I think this war can't be won. The debt-GDP ratio has now decreased to around 70 per cent, but if we had looked at the starting point, the 80 per cent debt-GDP ratio, and when private pension funds were nationalised and that money was spent on debt settlement, we would have been around 70 per cent, so I don't think it's a big weapon. Finally, let me say a few sentences about the exchange rate issue. Of course, I know the lesson, I've learned, I've even taught inflation goals and policies at the university, and I can't really accept this policy, but with regard to the exchange rate, I think there are more questions here that should be looked at. One of the problems is that what you think is far from being expected is that if the forint is weakened, it encourages exports and significantly reduces imports; because it only encourages the part of exports that has no import content. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] So, for example, as my fellow Member, Mr Kárpat, said, it is indeed in favour of multinational companies, because it will be cheaper for them and for those producers of domestic exports who do not have import content in their products. 'Cause if there's import content in it, then, right, it's gonna ring from the discount. That is why we teach universities that exchange rate policies cannot increase competitiveness in the longer term. And, of course, we are now in a situation where the weak and weaker forints actually crowd out the products of the domestic economy because the population insists on buying the consumer goods we bring from abroad. Think not only of the smartphone, but of computers, household appliances, cars. This all comes from abroad, and the exchange of these means that households have to spend increasing amounts of their total income on these imports. This also undermines our external trade balance, while at the same time crowding out domestic consumer goods, because there is less and less access to the products we produce. And let us not forget that only 20 percent of exports are produced by the majority of domestic ownership companies. And, of course, it would also be a very important element for the Hungarian National Bank to have a much stronger exchange rate concept, that if it recognises that the path of the future is to join the euro zone as soon as possible and to join the euro zone, because, in the next period, a two-speed Europe is likely to take place, and consequently, if it is in a much better position in the internal sphere, in the euro area, then it would be necessary to implement an exchange rate stabilisation. I mean, you have to go into ERM II, and you have to be within 5 percent of the extra-minus. I think that it is absolutely necessary to prepare for this, and not to be pleased, by the way, that the MNB's profits are increasing as a result of the depreciation. So I think that the Hungarian National Bank, instead of trying to polish its 2018 results, should recognise that this kind of monetary policy that it has held up so far is actually not sustainable and does not work, and it would be good to do so as soon as possible, until the external crisis signals will appear in the policy of the Hungarian National Bank, because then it will be very late. Unfortunately, the burden of this will be borne by us, the Hungarian population. Therefore, I would like to ask the central bank leaders to review monetary policy principles and to change monetary policy. Even so, that's why the Dialogue cannot accept this MNB report. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-11-18	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. I now give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas.
u2019-12-11-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I would like to comment on a subject, because it is an extremely comprehensive report, and I would like to say immediately in the prerogative that the Hungarian National Bank, its management has done a really good job in recent years. This is reflected in the country's economic performance, in all the metrics. So we can only acknowledge this job. At the same time, my fellow Member, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, I have noticed that he may have just addressed me here, and he has also addressed agricultural issues and food trade issues. I think that in itself deserves a full agenda, and I don't want to deviate from the agenda. But there is no doubt that, while the Hungarian economy is on a growth path, agriculture is also on a growth path at the moment. An important part of this is the internal market; the internal market, where Hungarian producers can sell their products. Obviously, the forint exchange rate has an impact on exports and imports alike, but perhaps I would be careful to add what our fellow Member Dániel Z. Karpát was pushing just now to see how the price of vegetables and fruits moves in such a case. After all, we know that Hungary is capable of self-sufficiency, we have the capacity, and we also export, for all vegetables and fruits serving the purpose of public consumption, with the exception of Southern fruits. [[13.10]] So I think it is an exaggeration that if a Member of Parliament, who also considers himself responsible for the Hungarian economic policy, finds it difficult that the prices of imported products are rising, they are higher either because of the exchange rate or because of other effects. I would therefore like to point out that there have also been plant diseases and crises in the areas from which these products come to Hungary and the European Union. So what I think is important is that we take into account the situation of Hungarian producers, because the Hungarian producers can produce these vegetables, with the exception of the fruits of the South, it is not harmful for them to have imported products at a higher level than the domestic ones. Moreover, if you look at the environmental pressures, domestic products moving on the short supply chain are less exposed to nature and the environment. So this is also so important that the Hungarian State must put local producers in a position through this short supply chain, through producer markets, directly to support purchases from the producer, with either exchange rate policy or other means of rural development support; such support elements are also available among the current rural development resources, but also include support for the trademark system, marketing, various fairs and craft food fairs. In this way we can maintain domestic production, and from there we can supply the population, we can also maintain the domestic culture of production, which in itself is a serious value, and some of it can also be regarded as a Hungaricum. Therefore, I would be careful to resent expensive or even more expensive southern fruits here in Parliament. There is obviously a significant demand for consumers here too, and I do not dispute this, and we need these in the supply, but we also have the traditional Hungarian varieties of vegetables and fruit that provide the supply, and the consumption of which was, at least in the past, at least by magnitude greater than what we are experiencing in the food consumption. Today it's even. Thus, the population consumes quantities of bananas or oranges similar to apples or pears per capita. It often goes beyond these domestic products, even though they can be produced locally, and we are not vulnerable to products from other countries or remote landscapes. This is why I thought it was important to say this, because I think that the most important thing is to support local production and Hungarian production. I believe that we agree with the Member on this, too. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-12-11-20	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman János Volner.
u2019-12-11-21	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am very pleased that Mr.Márton Nagy has remained here on behalf of the MNB, and that we can respect him by the way, and I very much hope that he will take advantage of the opportunity to take part in the debate in Parliament and not just say a closing word at the end. I would also like to ask the Vice-President, with respect, to do so. I think it is important, fellow Members, what I have already said in the budget debate, and what has been said so little in this House, Professor Mellar touched on the issue when he spoke about the overheating of the Hungarian economy. I myself have repeatedly and critically spoken about the fact that while there is consensus among the world's economists that it is worthwhile for a country to pursue countercyclical economic policy, so when the economy is going well and economic activity is going well, it is worth hoarding up a little, preparing for the years of crisis; and in the years of crisis, which will legally welcome the economy from reserves, and it is possible to curb the harmful effects of the crisis; this, unfortunately, in the case of Hungary, I must say, has not happened. In recent years, I have repeatedly said that we cannot see any signs of such preparation. Now the amount of reserves has increased slightly in the last budget, but this is still a drop in the sea compared to the size of the matter. It is important to talk about this because if you look at the international economic reports, you can see that the Hungarian economy is slowing down in Germany. Both György Matolcsy and Mihály Varga, his successor in the office of Minister of National Economy and Finance, tried to fasten the Hungarian economy. So together with the slowing down of the German economy, because we are connected to them as automotive suppliers and as a partly repairing country, the Hungarian economy is likely to slow down, and China, one of the world's largest economies, is showing dangerous signs of slowing down. Within the Hungarian economy, the reserves that are so much needed are not there. I ask that the Hungarian National Bank also address this issue in its own activities. I have read the Competitiveness Programme and everything more important that the Hungarian National Bank has published in recent years. I think it is very important that I also aim specifically at Mr Nagy, because once again I stress that it is a well-prepared professional to deal with this issue, because I see now that this area of Hungarian economic policy has been neglected for many years, which will avenge itself. Mr Mellar also mentioned the relationship between weak forint and export promotion, which, unfortunately, has become less true in recent years and is becoming less and less representative of the Hungarian economy. Here again, it is worth changing the focus of economic policy a little bit. The Hungarian central bank can support the government's economic policy without endangering its primary objective, so it would be important to talk about, for example, not following the success of politicians over economic policy priorities, so that they are not primarily aiming for export success, of course, but rather for the production of products with a much more cost-effective cost-effective capacity to trigger exports, as it is more cost-effective to fight the Hungarian economy in this area, and Hungarian companies can, of course, be much more competitive in their own Hungarian market than in a foreign market operating on an otherwise protectionist basis. I think that this Hungarian economic policy has been a very old mistake, that it has always pushed export success instead of focusing on expanding and strengthening products that are suitable for export in recent years. I believe we would have been much better off if we hadn't followed this path. I would ask Mr Nagy to interpret this to the President of the Central Bank and, accordingly, I would like to propose to supplement the activities of the Central Bank. I'd like to talk about two taxes that were particularly painful to me. At a time when Viktor Orbán announced in 2010 that multinational companies should contribute to Hungary's public burden in a fair and much more equal way than before, he set a goal that Jobbik, by the way, took up and mentioned several times. This was to involve the multinationals in the public burden-sharing at a higher rate than before, but the credit institution's allowance was a good tool, of which Hungary realised an annual budget of approximately HUF 20 billion. I was very surprised when the Magyar Nemzeti Bank published its prognosis, and it turned out that the profitability of the credit institution sector is close to HUF 700 billion, then why the hell should the credit institution's allowance be abolished? ! Can't the banking system take that 20 billion forint? It is very difficult to explain why this was necessary. I believe that this burden should have remained on the banks. Similarly, when I look at the tax burden of banks with a balance sheet total of over HUF 50 billion, the bank tax rate was reduced to less than half, to 0.21 percent. It's another step I just can't agree with. The banking system is producing outstanding profitability, and from one year to the next it is constantly knocking down its own profitability. Don't get me wrong, I'm not a left-wing Member, so I'm not sorry about the profits from the banks, but when it produces such outstanding profitability, I think that it is right to expect Hungarian citizens to benefit from this profit, as far as possible, and not to give it to credit institutions in the form of a significant tax reduction. The third such tax, which I would like to discuss very briefly, is the introduction of a transaction fee. I remember the debates that we had here in this House before the 2012 launch. I also said that I do not see the legal guarantee that commercial banks will not pass on the burden of transaction fees to consumers by increasing their transaction costs. That's what happened later. The banks sent letters about their various package-modifying intentions to customers in the hundreds of thousands and even millions, and they were informed more than once about this relationship, otherwise it was absolutely closely apparent that a number of large commercial banks increased transaction costs by just as much as the transaction fee. [[13.20]] I think that once the role of the authority responsible for financial supervision has been played by the Hungarian National Bank with the termination of the PSZEF, the National Bank would also have something to do in this area. What I was missing was that he did not act with sufficient strength and efficiency in this area. My colleagues also mentioned the issue of inflation methodology in a few critical words before me. On the one hand, I also believe that it cannot be based on the 2016 consumer basket, and on the other, I would like to inform the Members of Parliament that in my own committee, which is currently the People's Welfare Committee, I have initiated with opposition representatives to develop an indexation method that could monitor consumer price change, or even a home methodology of the Committee, as I have seen housing costs have increased significantly in recent years, up to three times as much, precisely because of the increase in property market price explosion and subsequent rent charges as the increase in consumer prices has otherwise been reflected in these figures. I propose that housing costs should be taken into account with much greater weight when compiling the inflation basket. Here I propose that János Cinkotai be consulted by the management of the Hungarian National Bank. By the way, Mr Zincotai typically presented more accurate inflation forecasts than the current government and the National Bank, looking back on several government cycles. He's working with a multi-factor, multi-variable Excel board, and he's making great prognosis. I therefore propose to expand the activity in this direction. I would have liked to have read about how the issue of the immediate payment system is developing in Hungary. Here, too, the President of the Central Bank did not mention this, although there is practically a revolution in this area. In China, the cash payment is almost exhausted, everyone pays with a typically QR-code system. The Chinese technology giant Tencent operates this system primarily with over a billion users and operates an app called WeChat Pay for this purpose. I would consider it important, fellow Members, to talk about this because, on the one hand, everyone knows that there is an economic whitening effect of electronic payments: all data that may be relevant to VAT or other taxes are immediately displayed at the tax office, and that income generated in this way cannot be concealed, and it is done through a transparent system. In Hungary, as compared to China, my fellow Members, we are still in the Stone Age, and I can honestly say that I am not comforted by the fact that, unfortunately, the government representatives are trying to find a cure for this wound by the fact that the whole of Europe is lagging behind China; unfortunately, we are lagging behind. For example, I would have preferred to see the Magyar Nemzeti Bank talking about a significant profit of nearly 50 billion in 2018 alone, spending money to promote the introduction of this new technology and to include technological developments that can be put together to provide examples or even technology to other European countries. Here, every day, we are further away from the solution, and we should race over time. I also think that the management of technological preparation for this would be much closer to the profile of the Hungarian National Bank, such as financing educational and other activities. It is very important to talk about the euro, which has also been affected by the Members who participated in the debate before me. I also share the view that while Europe represents a set of countries with very different economic characteristics, it was a mistake to introduce the euro in Italy and Germany or in Germany and Germany at the same time, which legally generated a credit boom in the countries of southern Europe. This credit boom has burst and has had extremely painful consequences for these countries. It would be very important that if, in 2020, on the 30th anniversary of the Maastricht Treaty, the Hungarian Government goes out and the delegates of the Hungarian National Bank are likely to participate in this meeting, they should represent Hungarian interests with sufficient force and renegotiate this agreement. I also agree with Mr President of the Central Bank that trying to compete the euro with the dollar and to run the two in parallel, I think it is a mistake, even if this could be a logical assumption. There is an American counterintelligence, and the leaders of the European Union were wrong when British departures from the European Union were tried to make it difficult. An interesting analysis of this was also published in the Financial Times, which was about how Europe could be caught in a pliers: against it are the injured British, and it is also against it by Russians who have been hurt and distanced because of an embargoed misplaced policy. This is not necessarily good for the whole European economy, and I am convinced that international policy has been mismanaged in this area. It is also important to mention that the National Bank of Hungary has launched its scholarship programme for excellence, and 500 people have already participated in this. On the one hand, it was not primarily the task of the Hungarian National Bank to launch this programme, and on the other hand, I must say that I am pleased that this programme has been launched. Last night, I called the government to account for the lack of cultural struggle, because I am convinced that if the cultural struggle starts in 2010 and, for example, the students' horizons are broadened a little in economics training, then it is not possible that in 2019 I will meet with all neoliberal economists from Corvinus, who have a fundamental lack of information on other economic theories, since they have learned one thing. Neoliberal economic policy has been absorbed, and unfortunately, it has been left by the government, just as the National Basic Training Plan has left out patriotic education. I am convinced that the country would not be as it stands at the moment: young people have taken a significant part of the neoliberal-liberal approach in the school bench rather than being more committed to Hungary. I would like to say very briefly about the size of the gold reserves. I commend the policy that increased the gold reserves at the Hungarian National Bank. In recent years, we have witnessed Russia and China buying up the world's gold reserves intensively. I believe that this can provide good preparation for the challenges of the crisis. I ask with respect that you continue to buy gold, because I am convinced that it will provide security for the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2019-12-11-22	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2019-12-11-23	Mr President, Dear House, I see that we have failed to provoke Mr Vice-President to debate, but the closing may be richer than that, so let us not advance on the fact that today's discourse has failed or at least the attempt to do so. I would like to thank my fellow Member, Mr Potter, for pressing a button on this extremely important subject, and raising his voice, and I am a huge supporter of you in this. For years, I have been obsessed with the fact that, in addition to going to the market, when I wander into a shopping mall, I always try to buy Hungarian products, vegetables and fruits; this is a serious challenge many times. So there is a more fortunate part of the country from this point of view, which can buy directly from a producer, I am III. I can do this sometimes as a district city person, but sometimes we have to get into the mall. The real problems begin here, my fellow Member, in addition to the fact that the rise in basic food prices in certain articles has been amazing lately, where, let's say, finding Hungarian cucumbers in certain weeks and months is a very serious challenge, and often even finding Hungarian apples, even though it would be expected that every store should hold all of them. This is going to be a serious hunt, and a very serious logistics operation, which, let's be honest, is not a pattern of behaviour by the majority of our compatriots, is usually more of a price influence. I can see that while the prices of onions increased by 101 percent in 2017 and 2019, tomatoes by 87 percent and cucumbers by 40.5 percent, these articles are well available from Hungarian producers, this is the lucky case, but very often and not in serious times of the year. I understand that the government can't assign how a multi-company can diversify its portfolio or upload its shelves, but I'm saying that a healthy climate can be developed. [[13.30]] There are, if I may take it this way, the joint successes of Parliament, in the 2010-14 cycle, I very much pushed to change the trademark law in such a way that the Hungarian product, tricolor and trademark cannot appear on spices from Colombia or on other products that I feel as if there was a common understanding and that we do not necessarily deserve the name of the Hungarian product, and this misleads consumers and customers. Fortunately, there has been a substantial shift in recent years, but what I see is that in this unfortunately globalised economic situation, the consumer simply cannot physically do it, the customer is to rely solely on domestic products. I wish he could. So if you have such a proposal, I will at all costs support it, against all discipline and expectations, our faction supports these proposals for localization, and, yes, it is in the blood of a good patriot. But I have to say that in a economy so globalized and so exposed, such as the Hungarian one, it would be a little naive to expect us to be able to rely fully on the Hungarian one. I wish that were true. And I would also like to say that shipping companies who, where appropriate, also supply domestic products to various multi-chain shops also work with imported products and import prices. So there will also be an indirect price increase by the time that product gets there. So really, shortening this path would be a very good, optimal solution, but in this exposed economy our options are limited, it would be much better not to strengthen these harmful processes by keeping the weak HUF exchange rate in place. Turning to Mr Vice-President, I would like to ask you to answer why the report does not address a very important issue, and this is the economic impact of the EU membership and the resulting euro inflow. I am not one of them, and I have a huge debate with opposition representatives about how they view EU funds as a blessing, a kind of selfless benefit. I do not, Hungary not only uses its membership fee to put what is needed in the common register, but also by becoming a hunting ground for Western multi-company companies, it is clear from the capital outflow data that these companies can make an amazing profit here. This is probably why Hungary's membership of the European Union is worth it. But since there has been an enormous abundance of resources in recent years, why can't we see a statement of the impact that this has had on the Hungarian economy? This is also important because, in the coming years, this springing period will be reduced, so we see that we cannot expect such an abundance of resources, but we are talking about EU funding of about HUF 12 000 billion during the 15 years of EU accession. This, if calculated, corresponds to roughly one third of last year's GDP, so we are talking about an amazing amount of money. I do not see the exclusive utilisation of this in the Hungarian economy, and I do not see that we could have made progress, but the question arises, what will happen to us when the same data should be produced in a less resourceful period. I would also treat economic growth poorly, not only because, for the following year, the preliminary reports and projections are not about 5%, but also about 3 percent, but I am interested in the composition of economic growth at all. So I would be interested to know how many segments of this are the result of multi-companies, who do not excel in public burdens and how Hungarian micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises perform. So, turning to Mr Vice-President, I am missing some of the statements in this report on the fate of the euro mass flowed here from EU membership. In particular, what is expected in this area in the next period. Speaking of the activities and profits of the banks, absolutely, as I said in the speaker's speech, we find an outstanding result at regional level, which, by the way, is incomprehensible or even more understandable in terms of economic processes. The lack of burden-sharing is incomprehensible, and what we see is the criticism directed towards the government, of course, that if these two factors were included in the budget, the burden on multi-enterprises, and on the other hand the burden on banks, this would result in a difference of hundreds of billions not only on the front of corporate tax, as these companies would have to expect a significantly reduced key. But this hundreds of billions of forints would be enough to partially eliminate the housing crisis, and let me stop listing the goals that could be achieved by the MNB, by the way. So I'm going to have you act more bravely on these fronts, as public cargo is a fundamental interest that doesn't happen in Hungary, but if it does, it would give this engine an amazing economic kick. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2019-12-11-24	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the joint general debate is closed and I give the floor to Vice-President Márton Nagy to respond to what has been said.
u2019-12-11-25	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Members, Let me just say that I've been sitting here listening to you for several years, and I have to say that there are a lot of comments that I can tell you. for us, it's a little weird and has a strong political charge. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: We are in Parliament!]] ; there are also professional contributions. We want the professional side to be even stronger in the future, and then perhaps we can start a debate on the one-year operation or vision of the National Bank. First, let me say that the credibility of the Hungarian National Bank, who tells us whether it is authentic or not, or whether it is worsening or improving, is the most important thing for us, what the market thinks of us, how we communicate and how we achieve our goals. We have one anchor in this: achieving and maintaining price stability. This has been achieved in 2017, our inflation target, and we have kept inflation in a 3 per cent range since 2017, plus or minus 1 per cent. Please, not only did a small part of the central banks, but also a small part of them manage to achieve their inflation target in Eastern Central Europe, the Czech national bank managed to do so outside Hungary. So, if you look at it this way, the Hungarian National Bank is one of the few who has achieved its inflation goal and can maintain it. If we are talking about credibility, this is the only measure of credibility, because that is its primary objective, the most important of the three mandates, and the other two can only be taken out if our first mandate is fulfilled or not compromised. As far as our results are concerned, of course, we don't have any results, we never did. There never was! The result is a side effect of our monetary policy. Of course, I always say: if monetary policy is good, then positive side effects are generated, we have positive results. Once again, this is not an objective, but if this result were negative, then the budget would have to reimburse it, and then the budget would face greater expenditure. The result has been positive for many years, and in 18 I can account for around 50 billion, but I can also account for what everyone forgets, of course, that in the spring of 19 we paid this 50 billion to the budget one at a time. It's paid! What happens with this result is stated by law that we have discretion. When there's a loss, we don't have a margin of discretion, the budget pays off. We obey the law. Exchange rate. I understand that the exchange rate is a very important thing, and we have repeatedly said that we do not have a price target, and we are not exactly fooled by the fact that the National Bank has an exchange rate target, so don't even try to do that. It has a public place, and either in the media or in Parliament, Members can argue about the exchange rate that is good for the economy. We're very happy to read this, let's see. We would like to encourage these debates to be as professional as possible and not to be taken out by one group of people, a single group of companies, but to be thorough and well-prepared. What means the euro is that we are members of the Union with regard to the accession of the euro, and we have undertaken to introduce the euro. There's no question here. The question is, when does it happen? It's the government's decision. What we are saying is that on the 30th anniversary of the Maastricht criteria system and President Matolcsy published a lot of articles in this article, on his 30th anniversary we have something to say about whether these Maastricht criteria are good or not. [[13.40]] We say that the 30-year-old Maastricht criteria are outdated. And why are we saying that? Because there are several countries in the Central and Eastern European region that will have to join, it is natural to say what the conditions or requirements for inclusion should be. These requirements are outdated, there are technical requirements, and we believe that this needs to be re-examined and that there is a debate here. And I would also like to stress that when we talk about joining the euro, why do they not tell us that this means not only that our exchange rate is fixed, but also that we are losing monetary policy, an independent monetary policy. So the interest rate is not determined by us in Hungary. Why do they not mention these when they say that euro accession should be accelerated or slowed down, and many argue that it should be speeded up, because we should be prepared for that crisis. Once again, it would be good to have a full picture of what it really means to join the euro, and in the light of the need to speed up or slow down accession to the euro. The Magyar Nemzeti Bank takes the view that the accession of the euro will take place more later than earlier, and recommends this, and that, where appropriate, the Maastricht criteria system should be carefully re-evaluated. As for the economy and overheating. That's a word a lot of people use to overheat the economy. I would like to stress that rapid economic growth, high economic growth, is not the same as overheating of the economy. If we see an increase of 5 percent, even in 18 or 19 it is already said that the economy is overheated. Once again, high growth is not the same as overheating. Overheating is defined as economic growth occurring from consumption, which has import implications, thus worsening the external trade surplus, turning into a deficit, where appropriate, resulting in a current account deficit. There is no such thing in Hungary. In Hungary, there is a process of exiting a medium development trap, with a very high investment rate, almost 30%, which is the world's leading investment rate, and the investments are pushing the imports, it has import implications, and therefore our external trade balance is deteriorating. But that's good, because our potential growth through more capacity, more machinery, more capital investment, increases. So the potential growth of the Hungarian economy is now, we think that it is not 3-3 to 3.5 percent, but rather 3.5-4 percent. So, once again, when we talk about overheating, it does not mean that there is overheating at high growth, we should look at the reason for growth, and the high investment rate and the very strong FDI inflow, where appropriate, and the fact that we announce more factories every month, that we are settling here, settling there, and that developments are taking place. As for the NKP, the bond program: yes, we also read that many people criticize what companies get, who gets from this bond program. The purpose of the bond scheme is only to develop the corporate bond market; the European central bank model and the conditions of the entire programme are the same as those of the NKP. What companies it comes to, whether it's close to government or not, we don't have any right to weigh in here, sign up to the program and reach the rating category B + and it's above category B +, and it's a better company in Hungary, it can participate in this program. Who's to say that if 50 percent, 40 percent, 10 percent or 60 percent is the proportion of companies close to the government, that's good or not? Who's gonna tell me who's close to the government? Excuse me, let's not point fingers at companies like that. These companies are today a very important pillar of the economy, and these pillars must be supported by the development of the bond programme. As for the MÁP Plus: I don't understand many people here, too, that the success of the MÁP Plus, that we managed to come up with a residential bond that basically brought in a lot of savers, not only to the capital, but now it goes to the countryside, and they say that this is for the rich. So it is true that most of the sales of MAP Plus started in Budapest, because less people have more money here, but they go to the countryside, and in rural networks they will grow through the Post, and here they will direct the smaller money of more people to the MAP Plus. To this end, the printed form of the MÁP Plus, in a materialized form, may be asked to own this security in a physical form, if appropriate. MÁP Plus gets to everyone in this regard, but it is natural for sales to start in Budapest. Please wait, the MAP Plus will appear in the countryside, and it will be available to many, many people. As far as measuring inflation is concerned, we should look into who determines the measurement of inflation. It is not even KSH, but there is an inflation index called a harmonised inflation index, which is the competence of Eurostat. So when you say that inflation measurement should be changed, turn to Eurostat. In all countries inflation is measured in the same way, on the basis of the same principles. It may not be perfect, we say it is not perfect, there are factors that you mention, the housing prices that, if you put in it, would be drawn up, but there are factors such as technological growth, which would drag it down, because today a car consumes less petrol, all say, ten years ago, which we do not consider in inflation, that the cost of maintenance or, where appropriate, the value of its use is increasing. As far as banks are concerned: the burden of banks is the decision of the government and Parliament, we can say that, unfortunately, banks in Hungary remain very expensive to consumers and do not work effectively. Their IT investments, their investments in the new infrastructure, their investments in the new payment systems are lagging behind in the countries of the region, unfortunately they are slow and, where appropriate, they need to split much more of digital development, they need to be much more active, not only because it is a national trend, but also because they have to fight with fintech companies, and it is not enough that they themselves have a strategy, they have to spend money on it, and they have money for it, because they really have a very important result. As for cash: reducing cash is a very lengthy process. Some cash is a property item, not a payment item, and some are held for payment purposes. The MAP itself Plus will change that, once again, the MAP Plus can channel cash into this form of savings, but patience, patience, patience. At the moment, the rate of cash growth has slowed, and this deceleration is a positive process. Finally, before I close my thoughts, I would like to turn to EU funds. I think that the examination of EU funds is very important, and we are also looking at it. We say that 40 percent of the growth in the last five to six years has been achieved from foreign sources, including EU funds, and 60 percent from domestic sources, which means banking system, means central bank and budget. In this respect, we have, and will continue to be, an increase based on domestic sources. However, this 60-40 will naturally move and the proportion of domestic resources will increase as EU funds decline. And this has a space, because while we have a loan/GDP ratio of up to 20% in the corporate and household sectors, if we look at the Czech Republic or Poland, it is twice or three times as big. So in Hungarian, the lending of the banking system and the banking system and the rise of what we call the penetration of the banking system do have a place. Finally, if I were to sum up the MNB's operation, I would have no other way to sum it up than Mr President, that the operation of the MNB in 18 was a success, and if we look at only one criterion of its success, that the economy was successful and in 18 the economy was successful, and how the central bank contributed to this, I think it can only be seen from this point of view what kind of operation the central bank was able to show, how positive and successful it was in 18. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] [[13.50]]
u2019-12-11-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll ask Mr. Sándor Hadházy to comment. [[For signal:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-11-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank all the speakers for their contributions, whether they have made criticisms or even words of praise. However, many speakers made the mistake of having a very broad interpretation of the item on the agenda and differing significantly from it, although I would like to remind the House that the item on the agenda is the decision to adopt a report and a report by the Hungarian National Bank for the year 2018. In view of all this, allow some thought. One is that I would like to remind both this House and the public of the conditions that were in 2008-2010. I would also like to remind this House of the cooperation between the Hungarian government and the management of the Hungarian National Bank between 2010 and March 2013. It can be seen that a lack of cooperation can result in very significant damage and a narrowing of room for manoeuvre, and that the existence of cooperation can put a country on a dynamic development path. On behalf of myself, I would like to thank the management of the Hungarian National Bank and all its employees for supporting the government's economic policy, supporting the government's fiscal policy, and greatly contributing to the manageable level of debt in the country, and we can continuously reduce this loan stock, to which the Hungarian National Bank recently contributed about HUF 800 billion. This is not an underestimated item, so in 2018 the Hungarian National Bank's contribution was HUF 800 billion. Dear Parliament, The proposal for a decision of the Economic Committee supports and accepts the Magyar Nemzeti Bank's report, which is why I propose that Parliament support and accept the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-12-11-28	Thank you, Congressman. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agenda, and now to the speeches after the agenda. First of all, Mr Sándor Fazekas asked for a speech after the agenda: about Hungarians and Kunok! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-11-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Since relations between Hungary and the various Turks and Turkish countries have been greatly strengthened in recent years, I believe that it is worth a brief look back on relations and recent developments, even in a larger time horizon. This is also justified because the countries participating with us in the Turk Council are developing dynamically, they are important partners and are related to the Hungarian kuns. As Nagykunság, Karcag, Honorary President of the Kunség, I would also like to express my appreciation and thanks to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and the Hungarian Government for the efforts made to strengthen our relations in Kazakh, Azerbaijani, Turkish, Kyrgyzstan and other relations. During his eastern migration to the Hungarians over a millennium ago, a number of documented Turk-based and language groups joined the Hungarians, we only need to think of the Cabaros. The ancestors of today's great Kuns and Kiskuns found a new country in Hungary during the Tatar Tour. The most loyal adherents of King Köny hun, some 40,000 families, received admission at Radnai Pass IV on the Easter of 1239. From our King Bela. As a part of the people who never came to the right, they strengthened their new homeland, they were loyal to the king, and in exchange for their autonomy, they taxed their blood. For centuries, true kun stubbornly participated in all the struggles of Hungarian freedom. They settled down, built villages and cities, and took over the culture and language of the Hungarians, but to this day they preserved their identity and precious memory of our language, the Kun Our Father. At the end of Turkish times, they lost their independence and land ownership, but they practically bought it back through the redemption. Our own folk arts, folk customs, legal systems, culture and culture have ensured our survival for centuries. Today, the strong communities of Nagy and Kiskun are in the Kun Federation, the president of which is F Sándor Kovács, Member of Parliament, and at municipal level the Kun Collaboration Consort. They have chosen captains of major and kiskuns from time to time, and, together with our Jász brothers, for many years now, the chief captains have strengthened our sense of belonging. We are proud that Nursultan Nazarbayev, the founding state president of Kazakhstan, has accepted our request, and so as symbolically the leaders of all the Kuns. At the initiative of Minister for Finance Mihály Karcagon Varga, in the capital of the Nagykunság, the Kazakh consulate was opened 25 years ago, which also represents outstanding recognition and diplomatic relations. László Horváth, along with the unselfish helpers of honorary consul László Horváth, has been continuing for decades the work that the Karcag cheerleader, István Mándoky Kongur started with the Kun-Kip as the same term in connection building. The fact that the Turkish Council has opened an office in Hungary opens a new chapter, and this is also an opportunity to strengthen our relations and relatives. On behalf of all the Kuns, I would also like to thank Prime Minister Viktor Orbán for his support in the matter of Turkish representation, and for the fact that, as a man of kun origin, he has always dealt with Kazakh-Hungarian relations and the cause of the kun people as a priority. At the same time, on behalf of all people with prideful kun feelings, I reject the unworthy attacks on the part of some opposition politicians, who are scientifically proven relatives of Kazakhs, Uzbek and Kyrgyzstans in Hungary and have always been loyal citizens of Hungary. The Kuns can be expected, now and in the future, as always, in our common affairs. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2019-12-11-30	Thank you, Congressman. Speaking after the next agenda, Mr Zsolt V. Németh applied for a living tradition. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-11-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The other day I received the book I of the collection of folk music and melody by Vasi Talpalálo, which is the work of János Földesi and János Földesi, a couple who taught excellent iron folk music. This volume was published in the wake of the collection of Antal Pécfi, and contains nearly a hundred folk songs of Vas county, which have not yet been published. The annex to the book is also a CD with the song of the former informants and the orchestral processing of these songs. It is a missing work for folklore and folk music bands, as it also helps to exploit this publication, but it is also an excellent example of the opportunities offered by the Sándor Csoóri Fund. Wherever we go in the country, it is not possible to miss that the Cither Orchestras play on new instruments, the former chest factory instruments have been replaced with excellent, even folk craftsman-made citers, folk music bands speak with new sound techniques, dancers spin in new skirts, and new boots are stretched on the boys' feet. But perhaps even more important, which helps the dance house method to survive, because the dance house method, as included in the UNESCO list of intellectual cultural heritage and the Collection of Hungaricums, is an example of how a XXI can enjoy itself. In the culture of the ancestors of a century-old man. [[14.00]] Sándor Csoóri used to say, a good forty years ago, perhaps one of the first dance house records had this quote that there were two historical moments in the history of folk dance, one when he was on stage, the other when he got back on the ground, but not as an art, but as a dance, as wind and rain. And that is why this method feeds culture, not only preserves it, not only cultivates it, but feeds culture. Folk culture itself is not only an artistic opportunity, it is an aesthetic experience, but it is also a value system. It is good to say this at this time, around advent, when we see that we not only preserve older traditions, but that new ones are born, when the advent wreath is also in the main square of every small village, so it shows an example, a handhold, or even the folk dance, which shows an excellent orientation in the gender scene. I mean, in folk dance, the circle is danced by girls, the bachelor boys, and we hope the bachelor never turns into a girl. So we are also guided by folk culture in today's value-disturbed world. In recent years, the government has spent some 10 billion dollars on this. In the next year's budget, too, 2 billion will be used to support the groups and civil society organisations, and this is unprecedented in recent decades. I believe that we can already say that the programme has confirmed the hopes attached to it, and, while it provides an excellent aesthetic experience, it also provides an artistic opportunity for many, a self-conscious Hungarian citizen. I trust that more people will be able to make use of this opportunity in the coming period. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-12-11-32	Thank you, Congressman. On the last day of the meeting, Mr. Ádám Steinmetz asked for a new competition title. If it is MotoGP, then Sávoly, or there is no need to build a new race track in Hungary, the band will have to be completed. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2019-12-11-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungary is pleased to host many international sporting events in the coming years. Consider the world athletics championship, the handball European Championship, or the European Horse Championship, and less attention has been paid to the fact that the government has developed a strategy for the development of motor car sports in the meantime. As we have learned from Minister László Palkovics, the government's aim is to build a new racetrack in addition to the development of Hungaroring, which will be suitable for, among other things, motocross, rally and MotoGP competitions. The MotoGP sport in Hungary is not unknown, as we also have world champion Gábor Talmácsi. Our excellent competitor also supports this competition and the necessary investments for understandable reasons. The question is how much public money this will take and where. As far as I know, the government has already signed a letter of intent with the company holding MotoGP's commercial rights, which requires a final decision on the location of the competition until 28 February 2020. The government is therefore currently mapping the locations that are suitable for international competition. Lajos Kósa, our pro-government colleague, has already moved on in this area, and he has already talked about how this course can be built in Eastern Hungary. I would like to say that I have nothing against the fact that a pro-government politician is lobbying for development and investment in his region. My problem is that some Members do not do this. On the other hand, it is a different question of the professional nature of Mr Kósa. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now taking this opportunity to express my request that this competition and this race path be built, implemented and, as Mr President has said, completed in the future alongside Marcali and Lake Balaton. Why? It is well known that nearly 80 percent of fans who are interested in car-motor sports come from Western Europe, and we can also see this at Formula One tournaments, and it would be easier for them to access the venue of the competition. Unfortunately, few people know about it, but the construction of a MotoGP track in the village of Sávoly has already started. This is the so-called Balatonring, which is located only a few kilometers from Lake Balaton and Kis-Balaton in the village of Sávoly. In 2008, the development started, besides laying the foundation stone, some 4,000 tonnes of stone were built into the base of the 4.2 km long track. By the way, I've had the opportunity to see this before. In addition, a gas pipeline was placed on the 600-hectare property, the sewerage of the area was completed and a thermal well was drilled. There is also a golf course in the very thick documentation material, as well as a hotel providing accommodation for the guests, interested parties and competitors. The Spanish investment company invested HUF 10 billion in the development 10 years ago. In addition to the completion of the Balatonring and the organisation of the MotoGP tournaments in Sávoly, the good location and easy access to the settlement are played. Zalakaros, Hévíz, Keszthely and the M7 motorway, Route 7, as well as the airport of Sármellék can be found within a distance of 10 to 20 kilometers. Finally, the completion of the investment and the introduction of car-motor sports competitions would significantly contribute to the development of the south-west Balaton region. That is why I ask my fellow Members of Parliament, especially those who will make the decision to think of Sávoly when considering the possible locations of the investment, in view of what I have just said. To conclude my speech after the agenda, I thank you for working together in 2019, it has been an honor to work with you. We will continue in 2020. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-12-11-34	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the speeches after the agenda. The meeting's closed.
