u2019-06-25-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down. Gergely Harvester stays seated. Miklós Soltész: Harvester stands up! Gergely Harvesto: Why, will you put me in my checker? Péter Cseresnyés: A question of education!]] The 2nd day of the 2nd extraordinary session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba will be in charge of the meeting and that when he arrives, notary László Varga will help me. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. If you'll allow me to comment before the agenda, I've been preparing for this for a long time, and I'm doing it now. I would say to Mr harvesto and others like him that if they read the house rules, they would know precisely that by standing up or not standing up, when the chairman or vice-president enters the room, they honor each other or their constituents. So I am sorry that you are a Member in this Parliament who does not respect either your fellow Member or the electorate with a greeting. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]] I'll announce that the house rules are 3. § 2 and Art. Pursuant to paragraph 3 of Section 3 of the Parliamentary Group of the Jobbik Movement for Hungary, Mr.Péter Jakab has been elected as Head of the Group since 25 June 2019. I would also like to inform you that Mr László György Lukács has been elected Deputy Group Leader of the Group of Jobbik from 25 June. Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to wish the elected officials effective work and good luck. Gergely Arató applied for a pre-meeting speech.
u2019-06-25-1	Thank you very much. [[Miklós Soltész: Sit down. Intercoms from the pro-government line: Sitting is good! Now he's getting up.]] Dear House, There's obviously a reason why I didn't say hello to Mr. President. He knows that, but this is not the subject of this pre-meeting. [[Péter Cseresnyés: You don't seem to understand.]] I would like to tell you about the comments before the agenda. [[István Szilárd Németh: Good afternoon!]] The fact that we've always suspected that you just like to talk about climate protection, you just like to talk about what you're doing here in order for our children, our grandchildren, to have a future, so that this country has a future. But when it comes to action, you do the opposite. This was further demonstrated when, at the last meeting of the Heads of State or Government of the European Union, Viktor Orbán joined the Czech, Polish and Estonian prime ministers, and decided to prevent the European Union from developing common climate targets, setting common climate targets, preventing us from fighting the threat that is perhaps the greatest threat to humanity today, the climate disaster at European level. You don't know what school you've been studying at. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Don't know about you.]] in which school they learned that money is more important than life, the future, the environment, because Prime Minister Viktor Orbán was so full of it that he said that, until the financial issues are resolved, this issue is not important here. [[Németh Szilárd István: That's not what he said! You're lying!]] can't be supported until then. [[István Szilárd Németh: You're lying! Your mouth is moving!]] According to the government's explanation, the reason for the veto is that it is not possible to know what a burden this is for the Hungarian industry. Obviously, it is also very important that the Hungarian industry, your strategic partners, the multinationals and your entrepreneurial buddies do not risk the profits of this type of climate change measure, but perhaps it is important that it will be a country, otherwise it will be an environment where we can live ourselves, our children, our grandchildren. Climate change doesn't knock, it's already kicked the door in. This is the case even if leaders such as Donald Trump or Viktor Orbán ignore this. I would also like to say to you that, fortunately, it is not only at national level and not only at European level that it can be done to protect the climate. On the one hand, I want to assure you that the Members of the European Parliament of the Democratic Coalition will do everything in their power to fight for a strong EU regulation, because climate protection is also a matter where we are weak at Member State level, even if we had the intention in the Hungarian Government and not on the contrary, we would be weak. But you can do beyond that at local level. You may follow the news and see that in European cities where there is climate-conscious city management, they prepare for the effects of climate change and act against it. Anne Hidalgo, a powerful mayor in Paris, has already introduced a series of measures to help Paris cope with the dangers and damage caused by the brutal heat wave in the next period. [[Németh Szilárd István: Na!]] The management of Budapest does nothing, of course, but we can get used to it. But we won't have to put up with this much longer. We hope, we hope, that there will be a local government and a mayor who will be able to manage climate change in the autumn, who will be able to do what Budapest has to do in this case. Kálmán Olga's programme therefore includes the need to move in that direction in public transport. [[Miklós Soltész: Bravo! Very good.]] To replace buses with electric buses as quickly as possible, to build green roofs on buildings in Budapest, to create more green spaces, so that metro line 3 is finally air-conditioned by the capital, so that people do not drown in 30-35 degrees or 40 degrees inside the subways. What we want is for us to finally have leadership in the capital that will also help us to bear these effects. Let me tell you a little thing, because that's just what I've been thinking, which is also in Kálmán Olga's program, so that there are drinking fountains in this town where people can drink on the road in the heat, I'll add, and there are drinking fountains for dogs, too. [[Dr. Pál Völner: For DK too!]] In order for dogs to have a chance to drink, it's important to them too. I just wanted to give you a few examples of the fact that if you, since this government, are not willing to take climate protection seriously, to protect the interests of the Hungarian people, to protect Hungarian citizens from this danger, we can also do so at urban level, also at Budapest level. I very much hope that you will soon have the Mayor and City Council of this city, who has more responsibility and more brains than the Hungarian government. Thank you very much. (Blessed Stephen: Iron Applause! Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You should have applauded!
u2019-06-25-2	Mr. Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-06-25-3	Dear fellow Member, It seems that Parliament's day does not go by without hearing a city council campaign from opposition representatives. [[9.10]] But it is also clear that the Member does not understand what happened last week in the European Parliament and in the European Council, and he did not understand what Mr President had just said to Parliament and to you. It's worse if you didn't want to understand, because that means consciously distorting the facts, consciously trying to mislead people, including when, like you, others and you are now almost mantra-likely saying what is purely a lie from your mouth. They do not want to take note of how much the Hungarian government has done in the area of climate protection over the past period and is constantly doing, for example, in order to make sure that people living in the city, the capital, if a heat wave reaches here, are less affected. If you wanted to give today's speech a really good title, perhaps you should have put this title in the past, and perhaps you should have addressed this speech to the social-liberal government how it lived up to our future before 2010. Because it was really the time that caused us problems, and that meant living up to the future. Your governance was the period when unemployment increased significantly, economic performance decreased significantly, very few were able to work, and there was a year when real wages fell. Now that there has been a very serious step forward in these areas, both in the area of employment and in terms of indicators of unemployment, or in terms of economic development, you are trying to formulate ideas that suggest that people feel different from reality. I don't want to conjure up a joke that ends with you believing me or your eyes, but it's actually about making people think that it's not the reality they feel and see. But in addition to the increase in employment, in addition to the step-by-step growth in the economy, beyond the rise in wages and not only nominal wages, but also the rise in real wages, in addition to the decline in unemployment, of course I do not want to avoid the subject that you have brought here in the area of climate change. I would like to reiterate, although I believe that four or five times yesterday the statement made by the government against your claim that the government is doing everything in its power to protect the climate, will do everything in its power to ensure that climate change affects Hungarian citizens as little as possible, and we will do everything we can to ensure that climate protection is best and most effective in Hungary. Who doesn't want cleaner water, cleaner air and more bearable climate? That's what everyone wants, that's what we want, and that's what we're doing very, very much. For example, 60 percent of our electricity generation is still free of greenhouse gas emissions, 50 percent of which are produced by our nuclear power plant and 10 percent by renewable energy. And when you are campaigning for greenhouse gas-free energy production, consider supporting, for example, the nuclear power plant, because at this moment, as we know today, this is the most effective climate protection, greenhouse gas emissions are most effectively achieved here. In addition, I would like to add some more data to you: that our emission reduction commitment by 2030 is a 40% reduction compared to the 1990 period, and we are doing this very well on a pro rata basis, for example, which means that we have set ourselves a target of 10.64 percent instead of 13 percent of the mandatory share of renewable energy production, which we already did in 2016 and that there is a further improvement in this area after a slight temporary halt. In addition, it should be mentioned that renewable energy will be used within [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging his bell.]] solar power utilisation has increased significantly over the past period. Just recently, they made a significant investment in Kaposvár, a foundation stone that is very serious...
u2019-06-25-4	Secretary of State, your five minutes are up.
u2019-06-25-5	... produces a 100 megawatt power plant capable of producing solar energy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-25-6	On behalf of the LMP, Congresswoman Márta Demeter asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2019-06-25-7	Thank you. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Today's Hungarian economic policy has no secret about keeping wages low and relaxing the rules on working at the expense of workers as the basic pillars of competitiveness. We in the LMP work to build the Hungarian people's Hungary instead of the country of multinationals, which is able to guarantee security and decent living for Hungarian people. In addition to a clear tax system for the future of society, it is necessary to establish reasonable rules for the operation of multinational companies, to encourage multi-enterprises to take a much larger part in the implementation of socially useful matters, and to apply the principle that the polluter should pay and not take the money needed to protect their environment out of people's pockets. In addition, action must be taken against tax avoidance by large companies and tax havens must therefore be abolished. From both EU and domestic sources, we would support small and medium-sized enterprises in Hungary, which can create much more jobs on the ground than large foreign companies, as this will stop mass emigration from our country, which we have all witnessed in recent years. The EU climate plan should be adopted first, as the future of our children depends on it. We need a regulation that finally results in clean air, clean drinking water and well-functioning waste management, and that is what it can provide to the Hungarian people. The EU climate plan, however, was paved with the veto of the Hungarian Prime Minister in addition to the Polish, Czech. They betrayed the Hungarian people. This decision can have as far-reaching and serious consequences as the strengthening of migratory pressure. Unfortunately, however, what the government is doing is not surprising, as the government is doing nothing at European level but serving the interests of multi-company companies, which are the primary cause of both the 2008 economic crisis and the 2015 migration crisis. [[9.20]] The Hungarian government is one of the flag bearers of the multinationals, which is why it consciously keeps wages low, offering the Hungarian workforce. Hungary will never support proposals in Brussels that would make the situation worse for the German and, in particular, the Bavarian automotive industry, as stated by Péter Szijjártó not so long ago in Munich. This is further evidence that, instead of supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, the government is looking again at how to serve multi-enterprises, contrary to the interests of the Hungarian people. The Hungarian government serves not only the large Western companies, but also foreign state-owned companies; it does this by giving Hungarian companies almost nothing other than promises. Even if it is possible to do business in the shadow of foreign companies, the flagships of NER, Lőrinc Mészáros or members of the selected circle will strike quickly. This is also the Paks II project, which must be terminated immediately because it is loss-making, expensive and presents a serious safety risk. The western corporate interest alongside Rosatom silenced the criticisms of the European Commission, giving the green light to a project that harms Hungarian people and endangers their health. In spite of the Hungarian government's ordering the Hungarian companies, trying to make the Paks project acceptable, the 40 percent share promised to Hungarian companies disappeared long ago, and the few that remained landed at Lőrinc Mészáros. We can also take the case of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line as an example. Lőrinc Mészáros's companies can receive some HUF 300 billion from the railway line, which will return over 2400 years, and Dunakeszi Vehicle Repair was purchased by the Hungarian State by the company which eventually replayed the plant without competitive competition to the Russian company that supplied the air-conditioned three-way trains. Of course, there is a need to transform the entire economic structure in Hungary, in addition to the elimination of such businesses that harm Hungarian people. After all, in Hungary, the large foreign companies not only spawn the labour force which the Hungarian government intended to throw at them cheaply through wild liberal economic policies implemented by the government, but they installed the most energy-intensive production and work phases in Hungary. This will continue to make very urgent changes to energy security impossible. Therefore, in the interests of the Hungarian people, action must be taken immediately, and I therefore call on my fellow members of the Government to support these proposals without delay if they are in the interest of the Hungarian people. Thank you.
u2019-06-25-8	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, has the floor. Here you go.
u2019-06-25-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am not in an easy position, Madam honourable Member, because you have brought up issues or raised them in such a way that in certain cases the individual parts were not very related to each other, so I will try to line them up. As far as the multinationals are concerned, it was this government that, contrary to previous practice, taxed the multinationals. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] and correct, the opposition, when there was a debate on this, did not support this proposal at all. [[Miklós Soltész: As MSZP! István Szilárd Németh: Yes, he was there then.]] So that's it. If I have to sum up in a sentence what you're concerned about, then, if I understand correctly, among other things, about wages, so allow me to bring up some facts beyond your cutting. We believe that increasing wages is a primary condition for more new jobs, so it is not irrelevant that 8,000 new jobs have been created compared to 2010. And if you ask yourself how to increase wages most effectively, then the government believes that tax cuts can achieve this. Therefore, it is important that the employer's tax is now 17.5 per cent instead of 27 per cent in 2010, so companies have significantly increased scope to increase wages. This is true for small businesses, for medium-sized enterprises and for large enterprises. If I approach the issue of wages from another place: in 2010, for example, the minimum wage was 73,500 forints, with whom you are conspiring, increased to 149 thousand forints in 2019, the minimum wage for skilled workers increased from 89,500 forints to 195,000 forints, so they all doubled compared to 2010. If I approach this question from net earnings, there has been a 40 percent increase since 2010, but if I look at the three children, the real value of their earnings has increased by 65 percent compared to 2010. If I approach this sectorally, I can tell you that 400 000 people's wages have increased in the areas of social care, education and health; the latter is also true of specialists and nurses. Paramedics had a 67 percent increase, while employees of public companies also received a wage increase. So we think that I would like to confirm to you that tax reductions are the main way to increase wages in Hungary. We agree that if you propose to provide higher added value for the Hungarian industry; that is why there will be tens of billions more for R &amp; D in the next year's budget. I urge you to support at least this one proposal. As far as climate protection is concerned, I would like to say to you that I think we agree on one thing: perhaps you and we share the common denominator, that the environment can be lived, that we protect the environment, that climate, that we want clean air and clean water. This is the common ground where we stand, but as I look at it, in the way we are already arguing in the instruments, but that is not a problem in terms of a long-term issue. At the EU summit, you referred to this as an attempt to force a long-term commitment on the Member States by 2050, with the Hungarian government meeting its commitments more on average than other EU countries by 2030. I would also like to add that we are better off, for example, with regard to CO2 emissions projected per capita than Germany, which is registered as the top student. We agree with climate protection efforts, but responsible commitments can only be made if we know what financial resources the European Union provides outside the commitments, because otherwise they will put a huge financial burden on Hungarian families, Hungarian citizens and Hungarian companies, which they cannot bear. So the negotiations must continue, and these negotiations must cover all the consequences and details of such long-term commitments, because we do not want what happened in Germany to have increased by 26 percent compared to 2010 when energy prices dropped by one third. So if you'd like to sign anything Bianco. [[Márta Demeter interrupts.]] then feel free to tell voters in Hungary to pay a third more electricity [[Márta Demeter: It's more expensive...]] 'Cause your proposal, signing everything, that's basically what it's gonna do. So I'm asking you to come up with all the consequences of climate protection commitments when you're talking about it. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-25-10	Lajos Korózs applied for a pre-meeting speech on behalf of the MSZP. You have the floor.
u2019-06-25-11	Dear House, Dear fellow Members, In the last few weeks, Suzuki Rt. has been in a very hot mood. Hungary's factory in Esztergom. Suzuki is one of the most problematic multinational companies in Hungary. It is true that he was one of the first to settle in Hungary after the change of regime, but they are the ones to whom I should usually say? Your employment relationships are unorganized. Let's look at the history. Previously, at the end of last year, when the National Assembly negotiated the slave law and several laws that, I think, rightly triggered opposition from the opposition, [[Lőrinc Nacsa and István Szilárd Németh intervene.]] Then not only protests, there were not only strikes in this country, but also very serious trade union movements, see Audi, see Hankook and Suzuki. [[Dr. László Varga takes over his notary seat.]] As a result, the union was formed at Suzuki Zrt., not at the factory, because they were not allowed to do so, but in the company parking lot, there was an official record of it, officials were elected, despite which the trade union leaders were not allowed to enter the factory, with reference to the fact that there is no trade union at Suzuki, while there is, of course, only this company's management does not want or does not want to acknowledge. [[9.30]] I am aware that the statutes and related documents have been sent; it is true that the names of unprotected persons have been excluded. Nevertheless, the elected union leader was fired from his job a few days later, citing that he wasn't doing his job well. This is not true, of course, as it has been a young man who has been working there for nearly a decade and a half, and his progress clearly demonstrates that he has done an excellent job, which is why he was promoted to a higher position than the company. Let's look at what we're talking about in a row. My fellow Members know perfectly well that the union is not something for itself. The union can initiate wage negotiations, the union can negotiate working conditions with the company's management, or even strike. True, the current strike law cuts your driver's licenses. I think that everyone in Hungary must comply with the laws, even Suzuki Zrt. must comply with the laws. I would like to remind this House that Suzuki Zrt. a strategic partner of the Hungarian government, and the following are described in this strategic partnership agreement, I quote: the general aim of this agreement is to continue the ongoing dialogue between the parties, mutual trust and predictability. Please, it is clear to everyone that Suzuki is in a daily relationship with the Hungarian government, and therefore the representatives of the Hungarian government need to know everything that is happening at Suzuki. In addition, it is included in this agreement that the strengthening of the active participation of Hungarian Suzuki is the implementation of government economic policy aimed at increasing the performance of the Hungarian economy and its international competitiveness, thus contributing to this. There is nothing wrong with that at all if it does not mean that this economic policy move towards economic policy goals is not about exploitation, not evisceration, not over-work. As I said, everyone has to abide by these laws. Last year we saw it on billboards, the government announced for billions of forints that if you come to Hungary, Hungarian laws must be respected. I understand, but please tell me that two or three weeks ago, Mr. Suzuki, you are Minister of Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó. Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, what were you talking about, because there weren't really any news on this. Obviously, the negotiations will have some consequences, and the trade union has tried to take action again. Last week we talked about negotiating with the sectoral trade union leadership, but the management of the Suzuki factory only sent its legal representative there. I would like to mention that the Parliament has recently discussed the economic protection action plan, and it has been shown to me that what is good for capital is good for the Hungarian economy. What I see is that what is good for capital is not always good for Hungarian workers. In recent years, Viktor Orbán has perfectly protected Hungarian banks, defended Hungarian multinational companies, and now I ask him to protect the Hungarian workers as well. Thank you very much for your attention, Mr President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2019-06-25-12	I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Bodó. Here you go.
u2019-06-25-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Fellow Members! Dear House, When the congressman applied for a comment, I had an opinion that he had started last week, which was proposed by Congressman László Varga, what news in Suzuki? He's gonna go on with a heat alarm, but then I realized it wasn't like that. It was not difficult to figure out why, since an announcement came to the OSH Department on 14 June, namely the unblessed conditions in relation to working hours, the issue of inter-work breaks and the heat alarm, and it is absolutely justified to monitor. Not only for this, but for this reason, of course, the aim of continuous and extraordinarily checks is to see what is really the situation in these factories. The answer that was given in the course of the inspection is, in fact, a reason why you have dropped this topic. They dropped it, as our colleagues have shown that there has been no irregularities, and in addition to the legal requirements, the employer has also experienced measures that have facilitated and helped workers to work. I quote from the report: about 200 drinking fountains, refrigerated water soda machines, balloon water dispensers were installed in the factory area, and a special cooling cloth has been distributed to workers that helps all day. Then, obviously, he had to change, and his next suggestion was that he did, but everything about the organisation of work is still not okay. Well, I would remind the Member that Suzuki was probably the first factory in the country to announce during the negotiation of the Labour Code and after he had announced that he did not want to change his previous practice and would like to employ me according to the previously functioning, effective working order. From this point on, it is clear that there may be problems with trade union leaders and contacts with them. With your permission, the process of negotiation is certainly not supported by the publicity campaign in which the vice-president of the MSZP is chaining himself to the fence. This is not a form of dialogue that is by no means ideal for mood swings. How and how trade union leaders are negotiated and what opportunities there are, I can continue to tell the Member that the Labour Code regulates relations between trade union leaders, trade union members and employers. If someone has any grievances, they can go to court. It is also possible to draw attention in a calm manner and to know that the Equal Treatment Authority can also initiate a procedure that is clearly applicable to the Law on Equal Treatment and the Promotion of Equal Opportunities. It is therefore clear that, in this sense, the government is not responsible for control, for specific control, but for creating a legislative environment that enables work to continue smoothly. The government must therefore ensure legal guarantees and, as it has done so far, continue to do so. In the event of any violation of rights, therefore, it is possible to apply to a court or to the aforementioned organisations. The issue of strategic partnership does not come up for the first time either. Obviously, the strategic partnership agreement is an important part of predictable economic policy. The Government of Hungary has already concluded more than 80 strategic agreements, these are clearly declarations of intent, which include an increase in the number of employees, an effort for a significant domestic supply chain, i.e. a desire to deepen cooperation. There are currently around 160 Japanese companies in Hungary, which provide more than 33 thousand Hungarian employees with job opportunities, but of course there is a place for continuous contact and control in the system. I think that we should definitely commend workers who, in such heat, are working effectively in such conditions as to ensure the right conditions and thus clearly help the Hungarian economy, the performance of the Hungarian economy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-25-14	On behalf of Jobbik, Congressman Ander Balázs asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2019-06-25-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Last night, when I wrote the text of this speech, for a moment there was no doubt about what to begin with. Thanks to God, I have many positive examples and experience, and I have many former gypsy students who I can be proud of, because they are honest, hardworking and upbuilding members of Hungarian society as cops, cooks, sellers, house painters and locksmiths. However, I must also say, Mr Secretary of State, that I have a nightmare, and this is nothing but the failure to solve the 21st. The most important Hungarian national fate of the century, the issue of the integration of Gypsy. The integration of the gypsy into the fabric system of society, which, since the census of 1893, has multiplied its number of souls in the territory of this country by fifteen times, and the male members of which, before the change of regime, worked in the same proportion as the members of the majority society. Then came the change of regime and the neoliberal shock therapy that brutally drove the Hungarian society, economy and them home, deepening the pits of sociocultural poverty, strengthening the anticulture of the outcast that represents a hotbed of crime, adding a horse to those who like to blame the majority society for everything, who claim that there is only a Gypsy issue in Hungary because of prejudices, not the real problems of the minority and the majority living together. Those who see the future in the artificially induced ethnonationalism of turning away from Hungarians. [[9.40]] And this nightmare continues. The state is even more egressing away from the multiplely disadvantaged peripheries, and in the ethnicised areas, the cultural-economic-social collapse will be complete. Whole walks become like Chenye or Hollow Valley in Borsod, or the Gilvan tree in Baranya. Then, the population explosion coupled with social disintegration forms a dangerous mixture in areas that become no-go zones, and the prophecy about the new Trianon, which has now been painted as a potential threat by prominent ecclesiastical people, is fulfilled. If integration on the Gypsy route cannot be successful, parallel societies of the insufferable poverty regions will tick like time bombs under the feet of the public and the country. Gypsyism also has to change, but obviously everyone has to admit that ethnic stigma does not lead to good results, since coercive identity can also be built in those members of far from homogeneous Gypsyism, for whom this is not an internal need at all. And they wouldn't think of a new Trianon. But not only the minority and the majority, but also the state's responsibility is enormous. He's all yours. The European Anti-Fraud Office, OLAF, also expects the Hungarian authorities to investigate the absorption of HUF 1.6 billion of the programme into the world of work, marked by Flórian Farkas. Flórian Farkas can't be a congressman. The bridge to the world of theft is already the longest case, for many times it cannot account for the public money. The Florians of Farkas made up 1600 million forints of public money disappear, so that the Gypsy sensed virtually nothing of it, their catch-up was not served at all. Why does the Fidesz Wolf keep Florian, and why did the Horn government hold him earlier? The answer is infinitely simple: he was always in charge of getting a vote. Let's see where the Fidesz hit. The most vulnerable, uneducated and poorest settlements. It is questionable that the aim is indeed to catch up with those living in extreme poverty, to make people's lives better, or to use them as a voting machine that can be bought for dry pasta in ignorance and poverty. The outcome of this case will show that they will release Flórian Farkas' hand, or the glued hands will stick together. It turns out that the transfer of integration issues from the Ministry of Human Resources to the Ministry of the Interior was an order in the area, or that they are preparing only the purchase of votes for the autumn municipal elections, which they intend to supervise more closely. By the way, there are ominous signs already: what we see, for example, in dealing with truly incredible work and all respectable schools, is more than worrying and outrageous. Do you know that the journey from the world of work to the millions of projects that have been derailed into the world of chiseling should have been sacrificed for such purposes and appreciated by the people who are working on the sites in the field to really catch up with Hungary? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Gypsyism, and you're gonna solve this question? ! I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-25-16	I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2019-06-25-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, First of all, I would like to reject the sentence that pushed your speech into the depths of Bangone when you said that the voters of Fidesz were uneducated. I ask you to do this on behalf of all Fidesz voters, honourable Member. [[Uproar, interrogations in the benches of Jobbik: Don't lie. You're lying! It's a twist, it's a slide!]] and the kind of liberal method that we have heard in Hungary for thirty years, so that if the national side, the right-hand side, the Christian Democratic parties have many voters, and in the last elections we have had quite a lot of voters fortunately, which we thank them for coming and supporting us, then they only know this as a lack of knowledge and under-schooling; because those who obviously have sufficient knowledge, who have sufficient education, according to liberals, can only vote for liberals. I don't know how you appreciate this, but I'm not surprised that you have a kind of grudge against the voters, because the voters have punished you in the election, in order, since you abandoned your own principles and sold your former ideas for small money, if they were real at all. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Dry noodles! Dry noodles!]] Thus, in a few years, they have become one of the weakest parties in the opposition from the strongest party in the opposition, but that is why they should not be angry with the electorate and should not be addressed by different pejorative adjectives. Although your own outgoing Member of Parliament has also said that it is a seat for MEPs that Jobbik has acquired... [[There's a rush in Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-06-25-18	Gentlemen, calm down. Calm down.
u2019-06-25-19	...in the EP election, a symbol: a symbol of no consequences in Jobbik. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, Flórian Wolf!]] And another party member said that you are conspiring with everything you have ever fought, and this is not only the electorate, but also betraying yourself. And your speech is a race with our country movement. You guys are constantly fighting such a small microwar about where more people are quitting. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Is that the answer? A voice from the benches of Jobbik: This is our problem, not yours! There's a lot of noise in Jobbik's benches.]] Where more people come from, from Jobbik to our country or from our country to Jobbik. This is what is being fought about in their own internal publicity, and it is clear that some of the voters who go to Mi Haza can be mobilized and seduced by various speeches on Gypsies, so that they will try to use you in this way to see if they can lure some of the people from our country back to Jobbik with this kind of anti-Gypsy rhetoric. But this is a rather pathetic attempt, as is the one where you try to clean Ferenc Gyurcsány from week to week, honourable Member. So I suggest you consider not conspiring with people who were called corrupt criminals a few years ago. What, in addition to your crisis of independence, is the current situation, allow me, on the one hand, to provide you with factual information. This TÁMOP construction, the National Roma Municipality Employment Co-operative, stopped as a result of the irregularity procedure carried out as a result of the project entitled "Bridge to the World of Work" on 29 March 2016. The National Roma Municipality repaid the last part of the required claim of HUF 1 651 256 049 on 17 October 2018, so the total amount of the claim was fully met. [[Ander Balázs intervenes. Dr. Brenner Koloman: 1300! Will it have legal consequences?]] On the part of the EMMI, on the part of the government, our own role has ended and our obligation has been fulfilled. However, there are a lot of important objectives for which we do so every day, and I would like to present this here in the remaining timeframe, honourable Member. In the area of child well-being, children's homes, from which 186 operate, are visited by 2500 children and have been fully paid from budgetary sources since 2012. In 31 districts, we help 80,000 disadvantaged children. In the area of education: from the age of three, a compulsory kindergarten, with which there is free catering in the overwhelming majority of cases, 92 percent of Roma children now go to kindergarten. You would never have achieved that in your life! In settlements where there is a better mayor, an inch has not been moved forward in eight years to improve the situation of Gypsies in Hungary. Not an inch in any of their settlements. [[Noise in Jobbik's benches. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Really?]] With one measure, we were able to make 92 percent of them go to kindergarten now. [[There's a lot of noise in Jobbik's benches.]] In the chance-creating kindergarten program we provide services to children in 570 kindergartens; buying tools and exchanging experiences. We help 6000 students in 200 schools in the school programme, which is already funded by domestic care systems this year. [[Ander Balázs: But they didn't get the money!]] For three academic years, support for 250 children is available in nine locations. In the Trip Scholarship program, in high school, we help 13,000 students, about 50 percent of whom are Gypsy-born. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] In the, Bari shej., which is unique in Europe, we promote the learning of Roma girls in more than 1500 cases and I will name it for a long time if you have such questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-25-20	In light of the early morning hours, I find it unreasonable to be nervous. If you have this problem from sleeplessness, lie down early, and please reduce yourself when you're not in possession of the word. It's Bence of Turdai. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Tie?! Is it your birthday? Intruder from the benches of Fidesz, is it Farsang?]]
u2019-06-25-21	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, Viktor Orbán was one of those who vetoed the European Union to set climate neutrality before itself by 2050 as the goal that we need to achieve in order to keep the Earth habitable in the next decades. Viktor Orbán has always dreamed of getting into the history books. Now, I think he managed to fight himself into one of the biggest climate criminals in the world. There's Donald Trump and some of his limited or cynical, dark politicians, because he doesn't seem to be able to see it, or if he can see it, he just doesn't care if our future is at stake. [[9.50]] We have ten years to reverse climate change. We have ten years to start adapting. We have ten years to implement the green light and the related righteous social transition that will lead us to a climate-neutral economy and society. Not only has Viktor Orbán done nothing at the head of his government in the fight against climate change since 2010, but he has made a lot worse. The positive processes so far have reversed in the mid-2010s, Hungary is one of the few countries in the European Union where greenhouse gas emissions are increasing and environmental indicators continue to deteriorate. Viktor Orbán and his government support a climate-killing capitalism, building such an economic model, because it seems to him that it is more important that Lőrinc Mészáros, i.e. he can generate profits in his own coal power plant than that our children and grandchildren can live on this planet at all. But this climate-killing policy is also a suicide policy, and no one's gonna forgive that suicide. When they come before the court of history, the verdict will be very clear. You're just dark. You're grey, like that concrete and the stone that's being pushed into the place of the cut-out trees in the big cities. You're brown, like those rust zones you let rot on, instead of recreating them, you'd make them alive. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: You are red.]] You are black, like the coal that is burned in Lőrinc Mészáros, or Viktor Orbán's power plant, and then emit huge soot clouds. Or you're as black as those soot clouds you see on the back of the BKV buses, because you don't spend any budget money on that either. This is why the election of the mayor of Budapest may be primarily about green affairs, so that Budapest and other cities of the country can live, so that the air can breathe in, so that not the gray can dominate everything, but that we have green cities, that we can live in our environment, that we do not die before time because of the pollution of dust and other toxins spreading in the air. This is why the creation of the new Great Forest in Budapest is a priority in Gergely Christmas's programme. This is a project like Városliget, only on a larger scale, because Budapest needs a new lung. For you to understand, there's a thousand football fields to be forested in the city. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Butterfly Park? Talk about that.]] This is why Gergely Christmas's program includes the ten-kilometer green corridor that will stretch from Margaret Island to the Roman coast. That is why everyone is now talking about building a green city, building a green country, and achieving a green transition. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: How many trees did you chop down in Butterfly Park?]] We were green already in 2010, when you didn't even know that green was not just a color, but it was also a political current. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We were still taking this responsibility, which you still can't take seriously. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, including Dr. Bence Rétvári: Which party did you sit in?]] And that's the big difference between you and everyone else in this Parliament now that you're simply hiding from the responsibility for the future. You will be responsible if this country becomes unlivable, if this planet becomes unlivable. I accuse you of betraying our generation and future generations. I accuse you of being climate killers and preparing for a collective suicide, which we have not agreed to, against which all well-meaning intelligent people object by any means possible. Yeah, it's an accusation, and that's the indictment that's being made at every climate protest, but this accusation is echoed by the dried-up lands and the flooded houses. This indictment echoes all unnecessary deaths, all avoidable premature deaths, and all the sweats that fall on people's faces during this summer's heat. It's a long and louder prosecution. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time. Dr. Bence Rétvári: And it's over. It's been a long time.]] And the verdict is coming. Thank you.
u2019-06-25-22	Mr. Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés has the floor.
u2019-06-25-23	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It's hard to talk after these sentences and thoughts. On the one hand, because it seems that you have either not been here in these two days or you have just been here in your body, or you simply do not want to understand the sentences that we have repeatedly formulated in this area, in relation to climate protection and environmental protection. But one thing I'm sure about from your speech is that after playing with different colors, it's a metaphor to the watermelon. The watermelon is green outside, but it turns out if we open it up, it's red inside. [[Noise, interruptions. Bence Tordai: That's right, a green left party.]] Because your statement clearly shows who you are, who you belong to not only to the faction, but also to the faction. Now it seems that all the irresponsible promises you're making, the irresponsible sentences you're making, have no real basis at all. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Bolshevik consciousness.]] And that arrogant style, as you speak these thoughts with those accusations and wordings, I must strongly reject it; I must reject it in the defense of every human's right to privacy and in the interests of every good person. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] But to give some thought to what was going on in my head when I listened to you, what thoughts were in my mind about what you said when I listened to you, let me tell you. It seems that this rush you're putting on here is nothing more than to see you lose in that wrecking derby that we've been following in public in television, radio, newspapers, what you call a pre-election. The situation seems to be adversely affected, as the supporters are constantly standing behind your party partner, and now you are using Parliament to make it a campaign site for a municipal election, if any, for its voters. We wouldn't be surprised if the MSZP would soon back out not only from behind you, but also from behind Gergely Christmas, realizing that there's no chance of all this, all the things they represented about you. But let's see what can wait, for example, for the people who live here in the capital, in case you happen to be in power. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] It's very simple, you have to look at what happened at the time when the social-liberal leadership ran this city. During the administration of your ally, for example, BKV Zrt. It brought together a loss of HUF 53 billion, and the capital accumulated HUF 217 billion in debt without a substantial transport investment being completed during this period. Moreover, no substantial green investment has been started and completed during this period. [[Bence Tordai keeps interrupting.]] You can say that if I wanted to live with the extreme exaggeration you said in your speech, one tree, one blade of grass, you didn't plant in the capital. On the other hand, since 2010, the government has consolidated the municipalities, including the capital; it has made a HUF 700 billion investment in the development of transport in Budapest, improving the transport situation of those living here. I said that it was probably in the flesh only here in Parliament, because, if I remember correctly, I answered your question about what kind of green investments, park development, grove development are in progress and will happen in the next period, thanks to the fact that the government and the current metropolitan leadership, led by Mayor István Tarlós, will pay very close attention to making the capital not only beautiful, but also more livable. To this end, investments have started and are ongoing where thousands of trees are planted. [[Bence of Tordai and Dr. Agnes of Vadai intervene.]] There will be investments that will also serve the comfort, relaxation and relaxation of people living here. Please accept my reply, or if you have been here again in the flesh, continue to speak in this direction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-25-24	I hear Congresswoman Agnes Vadai is here. [[Defiance.]] Good morning, Congresswoman. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Good morning, Mr. President.]] István Hollik is next on behalf of Fidesz. [[For signal:]] Excuse me, on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2019-06-25-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Together, we are strength, and we are weak. He once wisely formulated Wass Albert. This idea is one of the pillars of the rise of successful peoples and nations. [[10.00]] We are sworn here in the Hungarian Parliament and we are working to make the Hungarian nation strong again. If we do so, then the Hungarian name will be beautiful again, / to its worthy old news, as Petőfi wrote. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] However, one of the necessary preconditions for this is that we, who are here thanks to the Hungarian voters, should join forces in national strategic matters, regardless of whether we are debating many issues with each other. The issue of our fellow countrymen living across the border is just like that of a nation strategy. The responsibility for them was not voluntary, but the obligation laid down in the Fundamental Law. That's why last week the Parliament decided that the year 2020 was the year, remembering the Trianon peace dictatorship [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] and its injustice, let it be the year of national cohesion. Unfortunately, we see that the opposition's leadership does not share this responsibility, but last Tuesday, I believe, as the sole party, DK said no to the year of national cohesion. When it comes to power sharing, of course, they are immediately able to join forces with other opposition parties, but they do not comply with their obligations on these national issues of fate. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You will not tell me what your obligation is!]] Ferenc Gyurcsány and his party deliberately do not want to notice the issues concerning Hungarians, which are beyond any debate, because there are cases that cannot be the ruins of party politics. It was therefore a pleasure to see that when the Ukrainian state voted in favour of the law on language and education which clearly discriminated against the Hungarian minority, we were able to speak with one voice against it with the participation of all parties. Since last Tuesday, we know that this was only a request for mercy, since Ferenc Gyurcsány and his party [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Democratic Coalition!]] has quickly returned to its policy facing its own nation by saying no as the sole party to the year 2020 being the year of national cohesion. This is an eloquent proof that they are not first, but their own petty, power aspects. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] The European Parliament election campaign has also proved this. Of course, with this policy within the opposition, success can be achieved, since today there is no question which party is leading the opposition wreck derby. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Ferenc Gyurcsány party of Bolshevik methods [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Liberal!]] The success of his salami tactics and minework is no more justified than the collapse of Jobbik, the dizzying MSZP at the entry threshold [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] and even the Funny Party beat me to LMP. At the Bolshevik pace, MEP Zsolt Gréczy didn't even notice [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Liberálbolshevik! I'll help you. Liberálbolshevik!]] that on the Monday before the vote, while he was worried about denying the past, on Tuesday, the vote refused the past itself by voting against the year of belonging. He denied Trianon's memory. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Jesus!]] [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Ferenc Gyurcsány party of Bolshevik methods (Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Liberal!) The success of his salami tactics and minework is no more justified than the collapse of Jobbik, a dizzying MSZP (Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes) and even the Funny Party beat me to LMP. At the Bolshevik pace, MEP Zsolt Gréczy didn't even notice it (Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Liberálbolshevik! I'll help you. Liberálbolshevik!) that, while he was worried about denying the past on the Monday before the vote, on Tuesday, the vote refused the past itself by voting against the year of belonging. He denied the memory of Trianon (Dr. Agnes Vadai: Jesus!) and once again denied Hungarians living beyond the borders. (Dr. Agnes Vadai interrupts.) Ladies and gentlemen, However, in the light of the past, I must say that this was not a hasty thoughtlessness, because in turning against his own nation Ferenc Gyurcsány has a great routine. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] As he turned against Hungarians across the border in 2004, he voted no in 2010 for the preferential localization of Hungarians across the border. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: More!]] [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] As he turned against Hungarians across the border in 2004, he voted against the preferential localization of Hungarians across the border in 2010 (Dr. Ágnes Vadai: More!) It didn't cause him to give a moral dilemma to his command faction to vote no for the year of union. (Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes. ) He who was present from the Democratic Coalition's faction showed that they did not count for Hungarians living in Transylvania, the Highlands, the Transcarpathian Republic or the Vojvodina. [[It's an intervention from Jobbik's ranks.]] the implementation of the Brussels instructions and the construction of the European United States. [[Sándor Font: That's right!]] Their vote again denied the past, denied Trianon's painful memory, ignored our countrymen across the border, and wanted to turn Hungarian against Hungarian again. Only, dear Gyurcsány fraction [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Democratic Coalition!]] the past is not going to be completely wiped out this time. [[Miklós Soltész to the opposition: Drink a little more!]] That's why, although this may not be necessary, only Agnes Vadai is sitting here, yet the [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I don't know, is this my day?! The president's ringing the bell.]] I recommend it to the DK fraction. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Your time is up, Mr. President, you're right.]] St Augustine's thoughts, which define our policy: unity in great things, freedom in all things, but love in all things. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-25-26	I give the floor to Mr János Potápi, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2019-06-25-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The change of government in 2010 was also a radical change of direction in national policy. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: I can see that.]] When we took over government, we found a nation that was barely able to escape the shock caused by the referendum on 5 December, whose members were characterized by distrust toward one another. If we had to highlight only one result from the national policy of recent years, that would be the reunion of the nation in public law. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Congratulations!]] Thanks to the work of deciding on the preferential localization of Hungarians abroad [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: How much did you buy the votes?]] All Hungarians feel and know that they are members of the united Hungarian nation, thanks to which there is finally consensus that the issue of foreign Hungarians cannot become a party political issue. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Over the last nine years, we have taken a number of steps to ensure that the reality of cohesion [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: And you've stolen a lot!]] make it liveable in everyday life. By reuniting Hungarians with public law, more than a million Hungarians from abroad have again become members of the Hungarian nation in a public-law sense. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: And how much did it cost?! How much did it cost the taxpayers?!]] Almost all over the Carpathian Basin, there is no Hungarian community where we wouldn't have reached where the motherland wouldn't have helped. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: The Ukrainians, for example!]] either with financial or professional support. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] We have contributed to the sustainable functioning of the programme of more than five thousand Hungarian institutions and organisations abroad, we are constantly contributing to ensuring quality education for all Hungarian children in their mother tongue in the foreign country. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Not with much success!]] Within the framework of the Carpathian Basin kindergarten development program, we are building more than 160 new kindergartens and nurserys, and we are renovating more than 450 schools, and the development of several Hungarian schools abroad is being completed and ongoing. With the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor program and the Petőfi program, we are present in the 240 Hungarian communities of the world and the Carpathian Basin every day. In more and more areas of life we think in a united nation, we have created a single educational, economic and cultural space in the Carpathian Basin in recent years, and the presence at the Carpathian Basin level is becoming common in more and more forums. We have strengthened and reconnected the sister settlements, which now entangle the entire Carpathian Basin. The Hungarian Permanent Conference has been reopened, the opposition parties are also represented at the meeting of this forum, and the members' organisations adopt a unanimous closing statement every year. At the last meeting, in 2018, on the most important issues concerning foreign Hungarians, Hungarians were entitled to full unity between Hungarian citizenship, suffrage and autonomy, and normal political forces in Hungary. We've seen the road DK took 15 years ago. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I'm sorry, it didn't even exist then!]] how it ended, where it led. We'd like to make it clear now that we're not gonna let you. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] that the broad cooperation and social consensus that we have established on the issue of our nation's belongings should be irresponsiblely compromised by anyone. In the last session and last year, we adopted several regulations, resolutions, which confirmed the solidarity of Hungarians, such as the parliamentary decision of the Székely-Hungarian cooperation or solidarity, and such a decision to commemorate national cohesion. Only one force, the Gyurcsány Democratic Coalition, voted against this. (Dr. Agnes Vadai interrupts.) The five members who voted against, in addition to the 166 voting in favour of those present, [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I wasn't here, but add me to it.]] Gergely Arató, Zsolt Gréczy, Dr. Imre László, Lajos Oláh, László Varju [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Everyone! Everybody! Get everyone in there.]] And Avenger Anett abstained. Ladies and gentlemen, They are the ones who voted against the united Hungarian nation. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I wasn't here, but say me, too.]]
u2019-06-25-28	For the speech before today's last agenda, Mr László Böröcz spoke on behalf of Fidesz. I give you the floor. [[10.10]]
u2019-06-25-29	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, One of our most important goals in the last nine years is to put Hungary on a growth path while increasing the well-being and self-esteem of all social groups. At the same time, our priority is to support and recognise families with children to an ever greater extent. Thanks to the strained work of the Hungarian people and the government's consistent and thought-out economic policy, next year's budget is the budget of the families. In the 2020 budget year, support for families is growing to the greatest extent, by more than 10 percent compared to the previous year. Our goal is to make Hungary a family-friendly place, because for us, the child is the first. Since 2010, the government has doubled the amount spent on family support, which is the highest in Europe. In numbers, this means that in next year's budget, more than HUF 2200 billion is available to support families. The focus of the government's 2020 budget is on implementing the family protection action plan. Next year, each priority area will have more resources than ever before. In 2020, HUF 224 billion to support families, HUF 48 billion for education, HUF 184 billion for health care, HUF 136 billion for pensions, HUF 238 billion for public sector workers, and HUF 174 billion for defence and police expenditure. In order to achieve more and more effective research, HUF 32 billion of additional funding will guarantee support for R &amp; D in 2020. According to the latest quarterly data, Hungary's GDP increased by 5.2 percent and at record level. Economic growth is stable. Overall, this year's growth is expected to be above 4 percent. The government debt will continue to decline and the general government deficit will be below 2% this year. In addition to supporting families, the 2020 budget is also about protecting the economic results achieved so far and reducing taxes. The Government Is Still [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] submitted the draft with two logics twice. We want to reduce taxes, public debt, increase wages, investment, jobs and strive for full employment. Next year, with a dynamic growth of 4 percent, we expect moderate inflation of 2.8 percent and a lower deficit target of 1 percent than ever before. The proposal contains a security reserve of 1 percent of GDP to prevent and manage external risks. It is a huge step forward that we can reduce the government debt-to-GDP ratio of 83 per cent in 2010 to 66 per cent next year. The budget for 2020 will continue to finance the cost of public services from its operating revenues. We plan to support families and implement the Family Protection Action Plan in 2020 for HUF 2228 billion and serve 500 billion as an incentive for business growth in the framework of the economic protection action plan. From July, the tax on labour will be further reduced, the social contribution tax will be reduced by 2 percentage points to HUF 17.5 per cent in 2019, leaving HUF 150 billion for businesses, and from January, the small company tax will be reduced by 1 percentage point to 12 per cent. This helps more than 40,000 Hungarian small businesses, leaving 5 billion forints a year in their pocket. In addition, more taxes will disappear and we will simplify the tax system and increase the development tax reduction to encourage investment by businesses. There will be another multi-stage wage development in health care. There is also a source of financial recognition for law enforcement, crèches and government administrations. Between 2010 and 2018, pensions increased by nearly 30 percent and their purchasing power improved by more than 10 percent. Next year, in addition to the inflation-following pension increase, pensioners can expect a pension premium. It is not only better to live in Hungary, but it is still one of the safest countries, so the government will continue to take strong action next year against the threat of immigration in Europe, the risk of terrorism and the adverse consequences on public security. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-25-30	I give the floor to Mr András Tállai, State Secretary. Here you go.
u2019-06-25-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Chief of Staff, The focus of the 2020 budget presented by the Government and discussed by Parliament, as you pointed out, is the implementation of the family protection action plan. The main aim is also to keep the results of the Hungarian economy in a slowing European economic environment. This is what the economic protection action plan is for. Based on Hungary's internal resources and strong capacity to expand, and bearing in mind the challenges of the international environment, the 2020 budget is not enough to stress, with dynamic GDP growth of 4 percent. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] It counts as an outstanding achievement in the European Union as well. It calculates moderate inflation of 2.8 per cent and a deficit target of 1 per cent and the security reserve of 1 per cent of GDP mentioned by you. This budget therefore plans, on the one hand, on the basis of the results of the past, to keep its foundations and to further strengthen them, to set targets. The first is the protection of families, the strengthening of families, along with strengthening the economy and maintaining security. But it is also very important that the turn of debt, which took place in 2013, can continue in 2020. Overall, some HUF 2228 billion will be available to protect and support families next year. It will serve the objectives of the Economic Protection Action Plan, which will primarily support the promotion of business growth and the expansion of their credit opportunities. The simplification of the tax system and the further reduction of taxes will continue. It is very important that we maintain the safety of our country, as we are giving tourism an opportunity to attract and strengthen the tourism sector. Taking into account the details, from 2020, all the measures of the Family Protection Action Plan, which will receive significant resources as mentioned above, are: baby shower support, expansion of the CSOK's preferential loan, transfer of loans to multi-childs, car purchase programme, nursery development and construction, grandparents' children and mothers with four children's personal income tax exemption. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Among the elements of the economic protection action plan is the 2 percent increase in social contribution tax. Small business tax, the so-called kiva key, is being reduced to 1 per cent, to 12 per cent in terms of support for small businesses. It is very important that the tax system continues to simplify, taxes are abolished, taxes are merged. The tax advance on corporate tax, innovation contribution and income tax on energy suppliers will be abolished for businesses above HUF 100 million annual turnover. The ad tax will be suspended. The VAT rate for commercial accommodation services is reduced from 18% to 5%. From 1 January 2020 VAT refund aid will be available in the preferred small settlements up to HUF 5 million, and in addition to the construction of residential housing, it will be possible to use it for expansion and renovation. It is possible to continue the line with significant items, but to sum up, Hungary's internal growth engines are stable, the growth potential of the economy can only be at risk from changes in the external environment. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] In preparation for external risks, the budget also contains a security reserve. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[10.20]]
u2019-06-25-32	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda, and we are now continuing our work with decisions. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Dear House, On behalf of all of us, I very much welcome Mr Talat Xhaferi, President and delegation of the Parliament of the Republic of North Macedonia, who arrived in Hungary on the occasion of the Hungarian legislative ratification of the NATO accession instrument. It follows from the publication of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of North Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty, T/5886. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/5886. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare that the House has unanimously adopted the bill by 153 votes in favour. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Hungary has always been a consistent supporter of the Euroatlantic integration efforts of the Western Balkan countries. The NATO Open Doors Policy and the credible Euroatlantic Integration Perspective for the Western Balkan countries, including Northern Macedonia, are also essential components of the security of NATO allies. NATO accession to Northern Macedonia is a success story for both the Alliance and the region, and none of this would have been possible without the courage, collective efforts and commitment of Macedonian and Greek governments. North Macedonia's contribution to NATO operations and its role in halting illegal migration have made it a guarantee of security. We are confident that the Republic of North Macedonia will become a full member of the Alliance as soon as possible by the swift and full ratification of the Protocol of Accession by the Member States. Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament, to congratulate you on the success of your country and to wish you good luck in the process of ratification. Dear House, Following a line between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Slovak Republic at the common border of the two countries, Drégelypalánk and Ipolyhídvég T/6450 on the announcement of an agreement between municipalities on the construction of the road Ipoly Bridge and related facilities. Final vote of bill No 1. There was no amendment to the proposal, and we will decide on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6450. Bill No. 1. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the bill with 154 unanimous votes in favour. The Parliamentary Report of the President of the Curia on the adoption of the report on the activities of the Curia in 2017 entitled "Supporting a Legal Unit and Controlling the Rule of Local Government" H/3607. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. There was also no amendment to the proposal, so we will decide on the submitted text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the House to accept H/3607. A proposal for a decision. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the resolution proposal was adopted by 151 votes in favour, no votes against, with two abstentions. It follows from the provisions concerning the management of certain assets and the amendment of certain laws relating to national financial services, T/6352. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6352/5. and the summary report by T/6352/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the House to accept the Legislative Committee T/6352.5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 115 votes in favour, 17 against and 23 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6352/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the single proposal by 114 votes to 20, with 23 abstentions. Next up is T/6353 on the amendment of certain public service laws. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/6353/6. T/6353/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/6353/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The draft amendment was adopted by 115 votes to 40, with two abstentions. It is now the final vote. In view of the fact that the Parliament has just adopted the summary amendment, the parts of the submitted bill requiring a qualified majority have been abandoned, and therefore, in the final vote, we will decide according to the rules of the simple majority. I ask the House to accept T/6353/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The House adopted the single proposal by 115 votes to 40, with two abstentions. The 2017 LIII on the prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing follows. T/6597. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would like to remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be discussed by Parliament with a derogation from house rules. T/6597/3. T/6597/4. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/6597/3. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] The summary amendment was adopted by 156 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. The final vote now follows, in which we decide on the text of the bill as amended by the summarised amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6597. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I note that the amended bill was adopted by the House by 156 votes in favour, 1 against and without abstention. Dear House, We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber. It's a short break.]] [[10.30]] [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2019-06-25-33	Welcome, fellow Members. Dear House, Next up is the 2005 CXXXIII on the rules for the protection of persons and property and private investigators. General discussion of the bill amending the law until closure. The presentation submitted by Gergely Gulyás, Máté Kocsis, Zsolt Nyitrai and János Halász fideszes and our colleagues from Lőrinc Nacsa KDNP T/6552. Number 2 is available on the House's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr János Halász, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-25-34	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, This bill is primarily about the safety of music festivals. We see that security needs to be strengthened, and this requires new, stricter control and identification systems. Our exclusive goal is to ensure the personal security of visitors to events, to facilitate the effective prevention and detection of crimes, particularly terrorist acts, and to identify and apprehend wanted persons. In many cases, live music events with tickets are held in large open-air locations in Hungary. These, unlike an airport, a racetrack or a stadium, are not under continuous guard and their initial full inspection cannot be carried out either. The primary priority is to ensure the personal safety of natural persons entering mass events that provide music services as a main service against admission tickets. In order to facilitate the effective prevention and detection of criminal offences, particularly terrorist acts, it is appropriate that the organisers of mass events meeting the specified conditions record specific visitor data prior to entering the mass event. We are a festival-great power, these Hungarian events are popular in Hungary and internationally, successful, high quality, accepted. In addition to active physical security measures, the identification of persons involved in such mass events could effectively facilitate the application of appropriate measures to prevent or deal with serious criminal offences that endanger the life or health of visitors in the event of their occurrence. The law would oblige the organisers to record the personal data of the participants in music events with tickets linked to a change of tickets of more than 25,000 persons. Such data are the surname and first name, nationality, date of birth, gender, state issuing the personal document and photo. It can be interpreted as a safety risk if this information is not available. We want to guarantee the safety of events under strict data protection rules. The organizers can store the data for 90 days, then they must be destroyed. A frivolous suggestion is that these data may be transferred to the state or political parties. [[Gergely Harvesting: Sure!]] Since these festivals have handled different data, all of this has been done when buying tickets, and this material has been submitted in accordance with the festival organizers. Here, these data may be obtained by the authorities, for example, during an investigation or for the purpose of criminal proceedings, but only on written request. These organisations include the police, the TEK, the NAV, the prosecutor's office and the court. So we're looking to strengthen security. We see that security needs to be strengthened, and this requires these more stringent, new control and identification systems, the sole purpose of which is to guarantee the personal security of visitors to the event. I ask this House to discuss the bill and then adopt it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-25-35	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am now speaking on behalf of the government to Secretary of State Miklós Soltész. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-25-36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The rapporteur's proposal is supported by the government, even because, unfortunately, in order to protect our young people, I must say that unfortunately these steps must be taken, because, indeed, as you say, personal security is the first, preventing crime and, if possible, preventing first, paying attention to priority terrorist acts. But if, unfortunately, something happens, it's certainly helping the authorities to identify it. So protecting our young people, that's the priority. And after you have said that Hungary has indeed become a festival country in the sense that many people go to different festivals, it is very important to protect all teenagers, twenty-year-olds and, of course, older people. It is perfectly natural, and thank you very much for paying special attention to this, although there will also be a legal obligation for all those who will be organisers, that the data must not be stored by the government, not by political parties, but, of course, by the organisers in accordance with the data protection and in accordance with the legislation, or after a time. I'd just like to make a comment. When you spoke, Congressman, Gergely Arató immediately yelled, "Of course." They must have thought of themselves, as we are hearing in the current opposition wreck derby that data is being used in ways that are not legal, at least not legal. So I don't understand these interruptions. I have so much faith in the festival organizers and trust so much in the organizers who are not Fidesz, not KDNP, not Jobbik, I don't know, not MSZP organizers, but usually festival organizers, and I'm sure they'll pay attention to this. Thank you very much for your presentation. The government supports him. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-25-37	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Zsolt Nitrai. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor. [[10.40]]
u2019-06-25-38	Mr President, Dear Parliament, This is what this proposal for recreation and security is all about. It is undoubtedly one of the greatest challenges of our time to ensure an adequate level of safety and security for those involved in mass events. Our country is the 15th safest country in the world, and our goal is to keep it that way, even better. Dear Parliament, To increase the subjective sense of security for visitors and to ensure their physical safety, in particular to promote and promote the fight against crime, especially terrorist acts, the organisers of events must take ever more serious steps in Europe and worldwide. That is what today's proposal is all about. In this fight, the legislators also play an increasingly active role by laying down, through various legal provisions, obligations for the organisers of these events that are suitable for the protection of the visitor's safety and effective prevention of criminal offences. That's what I'm encouraging us to do. Dear House, The legal obligations relating to the organisers of various mass events are not unknown in Hungary's legal system; it is enough to refer only to the provisions of the Sports Act that allow visitors to be identified very closely in relation to high safety risk events and, in general, in relation to high safety risk sports events. Also mentioned in this section is the current regulation for so-called music-dancing events, under which such entertainment events can only be held with a separate license, which requires, inter alia, that the organisers have an appropriate security plan. It is therefore clear that the legislator Parliament and the Government of Hungary have already prioritised and are currently putting as much priority the security of visitors as possible, as well as the successful prevention of crimes that may have been committed at these events, as well as the effective detection of crimes that may have been committed. In view of these priorities, the bill before us proposes to extend the range of regulations already in force, specifically by establishing a regulation enabling visitors to attend mass events that provide music services as a main service, which can be visited against entry. On the basis of the bill, the Law on the Protection of Persons and Property and the Rules of Private Investigators would be supplemented by provisions on the organisers of mass events meeting these criteria. What is the proposal really about? The organisers of such mass events, provided that more than 25,000 tickets have been placed on the market for the planned event, would be obliged to record specific data of visitors in order to ensure the personal safety of natural persons entering the mass event, to facilitate the effective prevention and detection of criminal offences, particularly terrorist acts. This scope would cover only the necessary data to achieve the above objectives, so that the visitor can be properly identified, so that the visitor's first and last name, nationality, date of birth, gender and document are recorded on the basis of the visitor's document, as well as the name of the State issuing the visitor's photo of the document. For the organiser of the mass event, the regulation would not give the organiser the possibility to copy documents, such as the principle of data saving on the basis of the provisions on the protection of personal data, in particular in the case of facial image only the possibility to record this personal data of the visitor by means of a copy of this part of the document; for all other data, it would only be possible to record the data on the basis of the document. Dear Parliament, The main rule of data recording targeted by the bill would be at the location of the mass event. However, taking into account the fact that mass events targeted with the proposal typically attract a large number of visitors, the legislator also provides the necessary opportunity to pre-record the data of visitors already holding a ticket in order to ensure the comfort of visitors. In this context, the bill provides that advance recording may take place only after the mass event tickets have been placed on the market but not more than 90 days before the start of the mass event. It is also important to point out that the legislative proposal does not make the possibility of advance fixing mandatory. It does not specify how to record the data, taking into account the principle of technology neutrality, and therefore leaves the technical process of recording the data to the discretion of the controller. The intention is therefore: if the organizer of the mass event provides an opportunity to record in advance, it may be done in the manner considered by the organizer, such as through personal appearance or in any other reasonable way, for example through an online interface created by the organizer and appropriate from a data protection point of view. The bill also explicitly states in this case that the data provided in advance fixing must be compared with the data contained in the visitor's document at the place of the mass event only by the presentation of the document. In the light of the protection of personal data, in particular the principle of purpose limitation and limited storage, the data provided in advance should also be deleted immediately after the completion of the mass event even if the visitor has not entered the mass event from the beginning of the mass event until the end of the mass event. Therefore, the purpose of the bill is only to record the data of those actually entering the mass event, in all other cases, so if the visitor did not enter the area of the mass event for any reason, the recording would be excluded, or would result in the immediate deletion of the data on the grounds of the termination of the purpose of the already existing data processing. Dear Parliament, The bill would fully comply with the constitutional requirements governing the protection of personal data, and also provide for which bodies would have access to the data. The data should be kept by the organizer of the mass event for 90 days after the end of the mass event, or transmitted only to the criminal prevention and prosecution bodies listed in the bill. The processing period shall be adapted to the rules of criminal proceedings in force, such as the time required for the conduct of the preparatory procedure and the duration of any confidential collection of information that may be ordered, but shall not give rise to unlimited data retention due to the principle of limited storage. It's a very important guarantee policy. Furthermore, the provision on the scope of possible data transmission: it also makes clear by virtue of the principle of purpose limitation that the organisers of the mass event are not allowed to process such data for any specific purpose, such as profiling, direct marketing and contact purposes, other than those specified by the legislator. In accordance with the requirements of the General Data Protection Regulation for the protection of personal data against the controller, the processing of such personal data should also be carried out in such a way as to ensure the proper security of personal data, including protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing, accidental loss, destruction or damage of data, by the application of appropriate technical or organisational measures. Data controllers are also responsible for ensuring these requirements in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation, for which the National Data Protection and Freedom of Information Authority may impose sanctions on the controller for possible infringements. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, it is therefore justified to supplement the laws on the protection of persons and property and the rules governing the activities of private investigators in accordance with the bill, such as the identification of visitors, the security of visitors to mass events, and the promotion of the effective prevention and detection of crimes, particularly acts of terrorism, as well as the identification and capture of wanted persons. Recreation and security serve this purpose, which is what the proposal before us seeks to achieve. I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal in order to achieve the above objectives. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-25-39	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker for the Jobbik Group is Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor. [[10.50]]
u2019-06-25-40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, During the hearing of Minister László Trócsányi's Ministers' Candidates in 2014 and 18, on both occasions he stressed the need to pay very serious attention to raising the level of codification legal training and to establish a more effective training system, given the conviction that there is a rather large shortage in the legislative process of the codification level of the submitted draft legislation. I call this because, on the one hand, the Minister has not been able to develop this field to this day, and on the other hand, this bill basically shows how the government is unable to influence even the Members of Parliament, since this proposal has been submitted as an individual motion by several Members of Parliament in order to make some improvement in the history of the National Assembly. It's T/6552. Proposal CXXXIII of 2005 It concerns the amendment of law on the rules governing the protection of persons and property as well as the activities of private investigators, so the law is essentially about powers of attorney, about the conditions under which certain professionals in certain fields are subject to the exercise of that activity. Then a legislative proposal to identify the personalities of music festivals as mass events, which, from a legal point of view, does not correspond in any way to the area in which this proposal has been amended. With that in mind, if you'll excuse me, but you could have linked this new regulation to the assembly law, the Btk. or the Be. and I could have made a number of more laws with one chapter. In the legislative law, which Fidesz also made in 2011, it is quite clear that the same conditions of life and the same legal relationships can be established or amended in a law, but, well, I already apologize for the activities of personal and property protection and private investigators in order to identify the data of those present at the festivals, it has nothing to do with the world in the sky. It's a good thing that, as I see it, the authors... that's why there's a lawyer among them. If he had known that he was a nationalist and looked at what he was presenting, such as Gergely Gulyás, he would have screamed, because it was simply something amazing. The reason why we should not vote in itself is because no one will support such a codification crappyness. But let's talk about the details. This legislation says that the music service is intended for mass events providing the main service and applies to more than 25,000 visitors. Don't be angry, but where 15,000 people are present, isn't it important to prevent terrorism? ! Or where 10,000 people are? ! Or where 5,000 people are? ! If so many people visit such an event, is it not certain that there is a wanted criminal, terrorist or in any way any person who violates Hungarian law or who is currently violating the event? We are very protective of Hungarian society and young people, as State Secretary Soltész said, but we are not so protective that if only 15,000 people appear at an event, then the same rule must be applied. Well, think about it. Even a single young man's life, if he's in danger, it's important. But why $25,000? I'll tell you frankly, I have no idea why this bill has been tabled, but that it smells very business, that somewhere in the background there's some kind of expansion or acquisition, that's pretty sure. Then I'll call the other condition: for a ticket, so the visitors will attend the event for a fee. That's one aspect. The other aspect is what? It's music service. Don't be angry, but at these meetings created by sects, where many of our compatriots are present now, whether there are 25,000 people above or below, isn't there at least such an important, protective interest that there can be no criminal or wanted persons or persons capable of acts of terrorism? Or let me tell you one more thing: with public money, there are free festivals in many places throughout the country. If in a town of 200,000 free festivals, where is the guarantee that 25 000 people will not attend that event in a town of 200,000 people? So if it's free, you can be a terrorist on the team, you can be a wanted criminal. By the way, in addition to such a data identification, there is a great chance that criminals wanted will not visit the event for consideration, but there is a much greater chance that these people will go to free festivals, where we will not find them because this bill does not affect it. Well, think about it. That's such a Pharisee way of thinking again! It's got to be at least 25 grand, it's got to be music service, it's got to be worth it. And the safety of other lifelike events is not important? I would like you to think about this, and I would really ask the people who tabled the proposal either to withdraw it or to start to make a major change, because it is impossible to make a proposal that a opposition party could vote for. I would like to highlight one more. There's number two. Paragraph 5 of this Article. In this paragraph 5 there is a sentence that is completely incomprehensible and incomprehensible. I very much hope that once again this legislation should not be rewritten by the Chairman of the Legislative Committee in order to be useful at all, which is regular in the last six months, that there is a 20-25 or 82 amendment to the proposals tabled by the Legislative Committee, because the authors, often the Ministry, are unable to present a proposal at least in every respect. It is stated in paragraph 5 that if, on the basis of the results of the comparison, it can be concluded that the data provided during the advance recording do not correspond to the visitor's data, the obligation under paragraph 1 can be fulfilled only at the place of the mass event, and then a new phrase comes with the fact that, when this visitor enters the mass event, the organizer of the mass event shall immediately delete the data provided for in the advance recording. The second half of the stack of sentences doesn't convergate to the first half. The two parts of a sentence are about a separate measure, but somehow they put it together in a sentence that made it completely incomprehensible. So let the author or someone who is entitled to do so should not have to draft legislation by the Legislative Committee. This bill says that the data will be processed for 90 days by the person who has it on the basis of the prior registration. There is no problem with that yet, because this is practically fully harmonised with data protection legislation. But then there's a very wonderful institution, this is number two. Paragraph 6 where between points (a) and (e) he invites various, essentially law enforcement agencies to which he says the organizer shall provide these bodies with the recorded data on who has appeared at these events by written request. Now someone really imagines that this is not a system agreed upon, that, after each such event, an organisation between (a) and (e) will request these data in writing, will hand it over to the organizer, and what is the legal consequence of that? That you won't be responsible for deletion within 90 days, because if you don't have the data, you'll find it difficult to delete it. So what I would just like to say is that you have a completely different purpose with this legislative proposal, it would be much easier to tell what your purpose is, because perhaps there is a noble purpose in it, and, for example, together we could make some good legislation, or, at least, if not autonomously, but we could find something that could be introduced into its legal system. Does anyone imagine that after such mass events, after events complying with this legislation, the bodies will not automatically ask for information about who was present there? If society finds out that this is the kind of recording that he went to a concert, I'll tell you, he's not going to a concert. [[11.00]] So there are people who say, "Stop the procession," just because I go to a concert as a decent person, they record all my personal data and send it to one of my law enforcement agencies (a) to (e) for, God knows, how long they're gonna keep these data, because they're gonna, fakely order an investigation, maintain the investigation for any number of years with different extensions, different reasons, and in fact, our country will be a fixed medium of the data of people visiting a great music festival. So, it's all so far away. I think it would be a lot easier if you told me what the purpose really is. He says that, and here, my fellow Member Nyitrai has even drawn attention to the fact that the organizer himself can invent the technique by which the preliminary recording of data is carried out. Yes, but I would just like to say that, on the other hand, the legislation also requires that it be compared with the visitor's personal data after prior recording. If the organizer does not solve the pre-registration with the highest level of technical equipment... otherwise pre-registration and registration of more than 25 thousand people requires a serious IT capacity that creates huge additional costs and additional organisation for the festival organizers. But what is particularly important about this issue: when the visitor goes to the festival, he must be confirmed, because the organizer will only know that the person or someone else has arrived at the event. And that can't be done other than by getting a personal confirmation. Has anyone thought that if more than 25,000 people go to an event and ask everyone for their ID and compare it to the previous one in some technical device, how long will that take? [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] So, for a concert starting at 7:00 p.m., people should probably be invited to arrive by noon, because at about the beginning of the event, everyone can be identified, and even if someone is not, the ticket holder, as a pre-registered person, then there, the registration must be made on the spot. Has anyone considered the technical and temporal needs of this? I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that I think that if we vote in favour of this, then the amendment will be here at the next session, because there will probably be objections from the organisers that they will not be able to physically implement what is expected in this proposal. But I stress that the most important problem of this is that, if we are defending it, why it is only 25 thousand, why it is only a music festival, why it is only for consideration, and what is actually the real purpose of this proposal. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2019-06-25-41	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-06-25-42	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, CXXXVIII of 2005 on the agenda of the Parliament on the rules for the protection of persons and property and private detective activities. T/6552. The organizer of a mass event providing the main service of musical services for admission to the public would be obliged to record the specific personal data of the visitor intending to enter the mass event in order to ensure the personal safety of natural persons entering the event and to facilitate the effective prevention or detection of criminal offences, particularly acts of terrorism, against a ticket to enter the mass event. This would be mandatory if the number of admission tickets placed on the market exceeded 25,000 units. Ladies and Gentlemen, The proposal would require the organizer of the mass event only to handle the specific personal data of those actually entering the mass event, which should be deleted within 90 days of the end of the mass event. I would like to refer to the fact that, as regards sports events, the 2004 Sport Act I already allows and, as regards football, the law makes it compulsory to apply a system of entry, in some cases, involving the handling of more stringent, wide-ranging biometric data than this proposal, with a primary reason and aim to reduce spectator violence. For the time being, mass events providing music services cannot guarantee the safety of the participants, as anyone can participate in these events without restriction, so it is absolutely justified to introduce certain security measures, in this case specifically to record certain personal data of the participants, while, of course, complying with the rules on data protection. Ladies and Gentlemen, These proposals of action are therefore necessary and proportionate. Identifying the persons involved in the events in the future would effectively help prevent serious crime that endangers the life or health of visitors, or, if they have unfortunately occurred, the use of appropriate measures against the perpetrators and the detection of the perpetrators themselves. In view of what has been said, the KDNP parliamentary group supports the adoption of the bill. Please support me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-25-43	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-25-44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Anyone who listened to the past, say, twenty minutes in this House, must have been very shocked to know whether the two laws before me were the same. And how interesting our public opinion is that from such a different point of view, so different findings can be made in relation to this draft legislation. It may not be surprising that I agree with Andrea Varga-Damm, I share her point of view, we have come to similar conclusions ourselves. We have a lot of questions about the legislation. I don't want to repeat what he said, but I will obviously mention some of it and some other concerns. We see that this legislation is yet another example of individual legislation, and we do not need to sugarcoat it. There has been a wide variety of cases, except for the judge in Gyev, and obviously this type of legislation cannot be supported. It is good that legislation reacts, reacts quickly and effectively to social processes, but I see that legislation reacts very often to phenomena in the business world, especially such constructions, when individual representatives bring in something in the form of a motion, hip-hop. By chance, it was not so long ago that the NAIH, the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information fined Sziget Zrt. to HUF 30 million, for which according to the Authority, the festival organizer carried out unauthorized data collection. After this news, we met with this proposal shortly after. In fact, based on the public statements of the ominous company, it was possible to feel that there was a kind of lobbying activity here in connection with the punishment, in order to settle the situation, in order to settle the situation in a positive way for the company, without any coordination. Because the whole point of this technique is that if it were a government promotion, then a social consultation would prevent its adoption, which is an impact study to use such a word, although I do not know how much sense it makes to use it in such situations. I mean, it's just going to be on our table, and it's going to be pushed through Parliament. There was also a comment here regarding the fact that just because someone is going to a concert, why they have to provide this type of personal data, why the organizer of that concert has to handle this data for so long, what is the need for this at all. [[11.10]] In this, my fellow Member Vejkey gave a positive example of, for example, the processes in the field of football. It's not okay, just like the legislation was passed back then! I note that it had nothing to do with life, and we can see how deeply it affected the visitors' data of the NB I football matches, for example. There, too, this type of registration was made general, and they kept retreating from it, because otherwise this legislation had nothing to do with reality, and now it is only in high-risk matches, and it is a very small part of all the first-class football matches. So because, once in a while, a completely incompatible step has been taken in other areas of life, this does not justify the need to legitimise such a type of torture at concerts. However, we have gathered some specific concerns, which, since this proposal is already here, we need to ask because we do not really understand why. So why should this kind of data collection system be applied to events with a total number of 25,000 or more according to the draft? Who and when will decide whether or not an event reaches or exceeds this 25,000-person group of participants? Does this story relate, for example, to VIP and hyper VIP guests, such as, where appropriate, users of free tickets to the government? Will you collect their data, treat them at these ominous events? Why is the collection of these personal data even necessary to buy a ticket or participate in a festival? So we should be able to answer the basic question, because it is not clear from government positions, from the position of pro-government speakers. From persons under 14 years of age, what justifies the acquisition, storage of data in this form and, for example, the sharing of data, say, with the tax authority? So it's not a very understandable question. What guarantee does the amendment guarantee that the data thus obtained will not be linked to other centralised public databases? Who and when will decide when the use of data is legal and when it is not? Why is it necessary to manage and store the data obtained for 90 days after the event? We didn't hear a clear answer to that either. Why is it necessary for state investigating authorities to have such a wide understanding of the data collected? I have referred to this earlier as a motion for individual representatives, but it is a special charm of this story that one of the petitioners is Gergely Gulyás, the Prime Minister, who would have been the Prime Minister, so he could have been a government referral without further ado, and Máté Kocsis, leader of the group. My guess is the reason there's no reconciliation in the story. Deny it if you don't. Since we already have this proposal, which has obviously been said here by my opposition colleagues that it is not eligible, it is not eligible for us either, but since it is already here, why cannot the European and international investigating authorities, for example, learn about the data collected here? So if this proposal is even necessary, why is that not so? That's all the question applies. And why not introduce this system at any event that has already been presented where participation is tied to buying tickets? A number of such events could also be said. If the reasons you're saying here were to stop, that would probably be justified, too. So, to sum up once again, and not repeating what my previous opposition colleague has said, this is, in this form, not eligible for us. Obviously, an eloquent example of selective, individual legislation. It's not the first time we've seen something like this in Parliament, we should finish this. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-06-25-45	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-25-46	Dear House, This bill mostly tells us that there are things in the modern world that Fidesz and the majority of governments don't really understand. In addition to climate change, it seems to include data protection. This proposal is, in many ways, a kind of state-of-the-art veterinary horse, which bears many, many of the symptoms and symptoms of your legislative and administrative approach. Let me mention some of these. The first of these is that you are still living in that world, which is what all the pro-government comments were about, that the more data we collect, the better, the greater security will be. Here, Congressman Nitrai said that this story is about how to ensure safe entertainment here. I must say to you that, not only from a data protection point of view, but also from a police and counter-terrorism point of view, the mass collection of data without restriction and without reason would greatly facilitate security. It is worth recalling that these types of data collection systems fail before any major terrorist activity, not by accident. It is simply the case that when such large amounts of data are generated, the processing of this, its use simply cannot be solved by appropriate means. This is not the way forward anyway, but a targeted and, of course, protected by appropriate legal guarantees. How does this model work now, for example, in your bill? It's about collecting all the data from everyone, and then the police will get the data from whoever they want it to be. How's that gonna work? Will the terrorists really come along with their own passports that they're circling and then check in? They're coming across the border without a problem, so you won't stop them, so the Secret Service won't filter them out. [[Miklós Soltész: Should we stop him?]] But they're gonna be in the database, and then TEK's gonna want it out of the Sziget or another company's database, because it's gonna dream that they're in this database, obviously with their own name, address, their own passport, because the very important security system that they're building here is gonna filter it out. This is obviously ridiculous, and I am not only saying this, but also in more polite words the Data Protection Authority said when it challenged the practice that these festivals have been doing so far, and concluded that this kind of data collection does not comply with the principle of purpose-boundness. The controller has not been able to demonstrate that it is indeed security, indeed counter-terrorism, that the collection of these data is without restriction or, in essence, without restriction. There is another problem, also a data protection problem or a legal problem. What's this about? The issue is that NAIH conducted an investigation, found that the data management exercise does not comply with domestic data protection laws, nor with the so-called legendary GDPR, the EU data protection principles. And while a business, let's say a small entrepreneur, is being punished on the basis of GDPR, is being called to account that if you do not comply with these rules, you are now choosing the solution that there is no problem if something is illegal and does not comply with GDPR, then we will change the law and solve the problem with this. So if something violates personality rights, there's no problem, and then we're gonna put it in the law that we can violate personality rights. Now, that's what I can't do. This is what cannot be done legally, because your brilliant laws, thank God, do not override the laws of the European Union, GDPR, until you take this country out of the Union, will be valid in Hungary. As a result, if you do not, the European Union will continue to protect the rights of Hungarian citizens, including those who attend the festival. I would therefore like to say that it is possible to try this kind of legislation, but it does not serve any other purpose than to legalise seemingly or formally an exercise that violates personal rights. My fellow Members have given many examples, and I do not want to go into this deeply, but it is quite obvious that there are, for example, a series of events with significant risks where personal data is not collected. Somehow, at your freedom concerts, street shows, parades, the devil knows what little things they do with a lot of tax money at national and local level, there's a way to solve security without scanning everyone's ID. I would then suggest that we write a law that requires everyone to give their data at the peace process, set a good example for the citizens who support you, and collect their data first. I say, respectfully, that too will be against the law, of course, but perhaps you should not start with visitors to the Island and the festivals, but with your own people. I would also like to say that while we are all proud and appreciative of the effort, the success that these festivals have achieved, I must say that one of the reasons for this success is how should I put it carefully and without hurting you unnecessarily? That the atmosphere of these festivals is a little different, the ethos, the perception of what you generally represent in this country. [[11.20]] After all, these festivals are about freedom, about the community, they call themselves a kind of republic. I must say, therefore, that if these festivals are spread out that you, in violation of European rules, are collecting data about the participants, this will also cause significant business damage and cause significant damage to the country. As far as political aspects are concerned, honourable Members, no one has claimed that you would legally collect data for political purposes. All the evidence shows that you collect this data illegally, it's enough to refer to the Cubatov list and their similar party lists. Therefore, I am not at all reassured by the fact that Mr Fisherman and State Secretary Soltés immediately considered it important to defend themselves against this accusation, which nobody else said in this House before. Now I see what your mind is thinking, and I'm very suspicious, and I'm concerned about this. Overall, therefore, this is an unnecessarily restrictive bill that violates and damages EU rules and, as such, should not be supported. It won't do anyone any good except maybe the organizers and you. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-25-47	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2019-06-25-48	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The general interest objective of the proposed legislation is to ensure the safety of persons entering mass events, the prevention of crimes, especially terrorist offences and the identification and capture of wanted persons, of course, to be fully supported, but the means chosen by the authors to achieve these objectives are unfortunately inadequate, which is why we are asking you to reconsider this bill. The organizer of the mass event, I would also like to point out here that it cannot be suitable and has no legal authority to determine whether the data recorded are not false or false, so it is completely random that the data recorded reflect reality or not. The person or persons intending to commit a criminal offence, in particular those belonging to organised criminal circles or terrorist groups, unfortunately, have, on the basis of both domestic and international experience and knowledge, the false or falsified documents which can mislead unprepared controllers, so that data recording cannot in essence lead to the identification of a real identity and thus to the detection or capture of potential or actual criminals. The data processing provided for in the bill cannot be used to combat crime because, when applying the entry system, the event organizer only learns who is in the area of the event, but cannot determine exactly who committed the crime in the area of the event. The identity of the perpetrator can only be established by means of data processed as a result of the applied practice if the perpetrator is caught in the act and identified on the basis of the data recorded by him. However, this processing is not necessary at all, since in the event of an act, the competent authority is able to call upon the person concerned to prove his or her identity. The method proposed in the bill casts doubt on effective protection against potential acts when, for example, it takes hours, where appropriate, between the entry of data into the database and the detection and action of the competent bodies, since the person is already in the venue of the event a few minutes after the recording. Since the proposal does not include any provision that the event organizer would be authorised to compare the data he manages with other official databases or registers relevant to the public objective to be achieved, of course, in order to have substantial information on the exact identity of the person entering the event and possibly commit a criminal offence, nor that the controller would apply or might apply any algorithm to determine which person might be a potential perpetrator of a particular criminal offence, the intended processing is unfortunately not suitable for the prevention and repression of terrorist offences and other criminal offences. The processing provided for in the bill would be capable of achieving the defined objective if, for example, the competent authority provided the event organisers with a list of persons who are former or potential future offenders, persons at risk who need to be prevented from entering the event, or the law enforcement body should be informed in due time. However, this would require a different regulation from the proposal, so I would also like to point out from the LMP that this amendment is not laid down by the right law at all and by the wrong means, while, of course, the objective to be achieved would be eligible. It should be borne in mind that, either by other law, I do not understand why, for example, police law has less to do with this provision or intention, or that it would be necessary to regulate it in a separate law. Experience shows that the objectives set by law can be achieved not primarily by personal data processing by event organisers, but by means of other means such as physical screening, metal detector, appropriate security personnel, police and other bodies. It is worth mentioning that, in the case of one of the major music festivals in Hungary, the press has reported a constantly decreasing number of crimes in the event of events, which was not due to data processing with the same content as the current bill, but to the increasing efficiency of police work, police work in external locations and the internal area of the festival. Therefore, it might be appropriate to increase the effectiveness of police action, to strengthen police presence in mass events, and not to try self-advising, so that data recording can solve the challenges of crime prevention and law enforcement. The international experience of effective action against other types of terrorism and crime shows that the collection of preventive general information is neither effective nor sufficient to enable qualified public bodies to act on their merits. Let's just think that in 2018 only the number of participants in the most important musical events in the country exceeded 800 thousand participants, which in itself makes it illusory for those responsible to carry out effective preventive screening activities. Rather, it would be necessary for the public bodies concerned to be able to make requests to the event organisers in a targeted manner, already on the basis of pre-finished screening work, and to be present in sufficient numbers and with appropriate means at these events and in their wider environment. Thus, it is much more important that, for example, the bodies responsible for counter-terrorism are able to carry out, in due time and with appropriate means, prior security checks on sites for large events, or to participate in coordinating them, as would, of course, be a serious statutory task for the police. These legal obligations should be implemented by the competent bodies, and, of course, it is up to the government to ensure the conditions for effective work, both in terms of assets and human and material resources. There is also a deficiency in the bill that it does not sufficiently justify the inclusion of the proposed data in data processing, whereas, according to Article 5 (paragraph 1 (c) of the General EU Data Protection Regulation, personal data must be adequate and relevant for the purposes of data processing and be limited to what is necessary. That's the principle of data saving. So, on the other hand, we consider the public objective itself to be eligible, but unfortunately this bill, this amendment in this form, will be completely inadequate to implement it, so we will not be able to support this bill in this form. For my part, I would have been very pleased to have, for example, the Ministry of the Interior involved in this debate. I would have been very curious to know what the Ministry of Audit and Governance of Bodies with the exclusivity of the State Violence Monopoly thinks specifically about this bill, but I think that will come out sooner or later. However, allow me to take this opportunity to negotiate a law relating to the activities of personal and property guards. [[11.30]] Here I would like to talk about it, because we are talking about hundreds of thousands of employees, hundreds of thousands of employees, that in Hungary tens of thousands of people and property guards are still working black. In words, unfortunately, we have seen only words from the government to combat black employment, but they do nothing in reality in this profession. The people and property guards are everywhere, in the caravans of parking lots planted with murva in grocery stores, replacing the electronic gates in the subway. The Ministry of Interior should be overseeing this area, but the public figures show that there is a big problem and that there are a lot of people working black in this area. One who is reported one way or another, and they earn extremely little. The minimum wage security officer is now the elite of the profession on paper. As is the case, the strict regulations governing the area apply only on paper. Personnel and property companies and persons should be monitored very closely by the police, i.e. they should be monitored. Currently, more than 100,000 personal and property guard permits are valid in Hungary, but only 39 000 of them are registered to companies whose main activity is asset management. That means that as many as 62,000 asset guards can work black. It is typical that companies now involve temporary agency workers in order to avoid paying contributions and taxes, thus creating endless sub-contracting chains, thereby damaging the state to tens of billions and providing workers with extraordinary benefits. In this sector, 71 percent of workers are being violated by the employer. Most people receive only 400-600 forints an hour. The problem is aggravated by unpaid overtime, unpaid leave, total vulnerability, lack of official control and under-regulation of the area. This under-regulation puts decent employers in a very difficult position and continues to favour and not be able to reduce employers who commit lawlessness. Unfortunately, so far, the government has not taken any meaningful steps to solve the problem, and even adopted a legislative amendment to which company can no longer be properly informed about the activities of personal and property guardians at all. I would very much ask that, if, in the debate on the bill, we are honoured to be answered to this very important problem, then please do not argue that a lot of rules have been adopted that make workers easier because, unfortunately, reality shows something completely different, rather than solving the many legislative changes, have made the problem worse. I would therefore like to ask you to look at the situation as to what is real, and a reflecting package of legislation and concrete measures will be needed. So I ask you very much that, if you have the competence to answer this part and there is a possibility, you do so. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-25-49	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Dear Parliament, I declare that Mr Márton Gyöngyösi and Mr Lajos Kepli have informed the President of the Parliament that they have resigned their seats today. I declare that the number of Members of Parliament is currently 197. Dear Parliament, Allow me, on behalf of all of us, to welcome to my invitation a group of students and escorts from Poland, who have arrived today, who will be seated in the gallery. We welcome them. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz Group.
u2019-06-25-50	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Thank you very much for the floor. In my two-minute speech, I would like to respond to what Jobbik and DK representatives have said. Jobbik's representative asked what is really the purpose of this proposal. I would like to emphasise once again: the aim is to maintain security, to safeguard security, to protect citizens, to protect festivals. I am very pleased that Jobbik's representative stressed in his speech that the proposal before us is harmonised with data protection legislation. He also said that it is likely that, under such strict regulation, criminals will not attend such events. That is exactly right, we hope that it will be, because in this case there is already a serious deterrent to this planned strict regulation. DK's representative expressed data protection concerns, even though Jobbik's representative found this to be okay. I would like to see DK's representative talking about data protection concerns here a little bit about the mayor's pre-election, the opposition wreck derby, because there very serious data protection experts have expressed even more serious data protection concerns as to where the data of the citizens of Budapest who participate in this pre-election, the opposition wreck derby, what organisations these data will be transferred to and how they will be used in the future. With the title of data protection concerns, I think that is what DK's representative and those involved in the opposition wreck derby should be talking about in the first place. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-25-51	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, Democratic Coalition. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-25-52	Thank you very much. Although it doesn't have much to do with the subject, as you may have heard in the morning, who came early, I'd be happy to talk about the primary, of course. You know, it is true, honourable Member, that there are still certain traces of the legal order in this country. This also means that there are institutions in this country, such as the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information, which, although poorly functioning, is entitled to decide on the right to data processing. The press product Magyar Nemzet (Hungarian Nemzet), called the newspaper itself, is not one of the legal sources in this country and is not one of the certified experts. If you are interested in this topic, I suggest you go up to the primary website, read the privacy policy, find out about it, and you will receive accurate answers to all the questions you have raised. And for a moment there is still a way to legislate, let me make a modest comment, and let me ask you, if it is so important for you that you do not have to comply with the data protection rules and the privacy principles of some of the festival organizers, then why is it not so important for you, say, to deal with the situation of foreign exchange creditors in this Parliament, the situation of evicted families, to deal with the question that the Constitutional Court decision would actually oblige this House to create new legislation on invalid pensioners. These were not important and urgent to the majority of governments, but it seems that remedying this problem, bypassing data protection rules, is extremely important to you and is extremely urgent.
u2019-06-25-53	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State, Miklós Soltés. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-25-54	Dear Parliament, Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Although the subject is quite different, I very much ask Gergely Arató not to teach us about data protection or democracy. [[Interjection from the ranks of the governing parties: Yes!]] Don't teach us how to govern. The whole country saw how, when you governed, how you bankrupted this country, the whole country and so the people in the capital experienced how this capital was destroyed, how this capital was in a state of debt. Don't lecture us. Because you're making up a wreck derby, and you're having fun over there, you don't want to project it all over the country, especially the theory that you, say, abuse data, at least this is the latest news, and then you want to project it on festival planners, project it on parties, project it on the government. At least don't lie. In addition, you certainly shouldn't lecture us on democracy, because you were the ones who had your eyes blown out in 2006, you were the ones who had shot at celebrations and didn't hold the police back. It was you who said, and your party president, Ferenc Gyurcsány, said that he enjoyed watching all this action with pleasure. Honourable Congressman, I ask you very much not to rewrite history, not to lie about the time that you were governed, or at least did so, and do not want to lie about the time that you led this country into a complete crisis. I've had enough of this lying. [[11.40]] Otherwise, I would just add that this current legislation we are talking about is about something completely different. Once you realize that, you may come closer to governance sometime, in a few decades' time. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-25-55	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zsolt Nyitrai as rapporteur. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-25-56	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me also to respond to a part of the LMP representative's speech, which, by the way, was very pleasant to me, which, in connection with this proposal, brought forward legislation on the situation of persons and property keepers on this side. It is indeed a matter that I think it is worth talking about, so I have taken this broadcast on my part, so in the future, if it is already on this proposal, but it is worth paying attention, because they are very many, and I think that they are doing a great deal of work, they certainly deserve to have precise regulation of their lives and work in all respects. I will also stop at the speech of Jobbik's representative for one thought. He raised the question of how this type of regulation will work in practice in everyday life, which, according to our plans and hopes, will be accepted by the Hungarian Parliament, will not cause any disruption. I would like to stress that we are obviously in a continuous dialogue and consultation with organisations or experts who have very serious experience in organising and organising such large events, so I am sure that their opinion will be published. For the time being, we have received indications that they would definitely welcome this type of regulation, and I would like to emphasise once again the main aim of this is to maintain and maintain security, to protect citizens and festivalrs. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-25-57	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, As no one has applied for a further two-minute speech, normal speeches are now taking place. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató of the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-25-58	Thank you very much. It is painful that the Secretary of State has passed away, but he has made some statements that have nothing to do with this bill in the world, but what is worse is that it has nothing to do with reality. I would not go into the 2006 cases now, because I think that we all know that this is very different from what happened in 2006: you have tried to overthrow the elected government in office, and this has failed, and I understand that this has been painful for you since then, but the continuing abuse in this context does not lead to either the knowledge of the truth or the sensible political dialogue. What concerns Budapest, however, is indeed an important issue. I must tell you that once Secretary Soltés takes the time to get out of the Audi and travels some stops, [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz, including Dr. Péter Hoppál: You're dating Audi, she's dating Škoda!]] I'm sorry, he's getting out of Škoda. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So I'll put it this way, if I've insulted the Secretary of State, and he's traveling some stops with the three-way train this summer, then maybe he'll have a different opinion about the performance of the Fidesz city. I note that in the period before 2010, what you see so negatively, the reigning mayor, Gábor Demszky, was re-elected four times by a large majority, so perhaps the people of Budapest were not as dissatisfied with this period as you think and would like to set it. As far as the state of the city today is concerned, there is no point in fighting words here, and then in October voters decide how they see this wonderful development, how they see that this city is more livable, more normal. What this debate, by the way, convinces me, my honourable Members, is that, as far as the original bill is concerned, they do not have much arguments in this regard, because in the answer we have actually heard about everything, the pre-election in the capital, 2006, the sad knowledge of what it is, the development of Budapest, but why this proposal and the data collection in it is necessary, how it takes forward that these festivals should otherwise be safer, or the way in which the protection of personal data can be guaranteed, unfortunately very little has been said in your answers, and that I should not mention my own comments, for example, that Mrs Márta Demeter has very precisely explained why this bill is inappropriate for the purpose for which you intend. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-25-59	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Zsolt Nitrai, as rapporteur, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] The congressman indicates that he does not wish to react. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies 2017 and the proposal for a decision on the adoption of a report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates for 2017 and the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and its alternates 2018 and the proposal for a decision on the adoption of a report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and its alternates for 2018 will be followed by a joint general debate until closure. Report submitted by the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights B/417. and B/4398. in figures, and in the proposal for a decision submitted by the Judicial Committee, H/6544. and H/6545. available on the parliamentary IT network. I would like to inform you that the proposal is being discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, Allow me to pay tribute to Mr László Székely, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, who has arrived at the hearing. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Mr László Székely, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the author of the reports. I would like to inform the Commissioner that he has a 30-minute time frame for the presentation of the report.
u2019-06-25-60	Mr. Speaker! Dear Parliament, I'm sorry, I didn't come out here because of the importance of my own person, just because there's more than four buttons there, and it's beyond my ability. [[Defiance.]] I've been talking about how to turn it on, and I've been talking about it all these years. First of all, I would like to reassure the Honourable Parliament that I have seen their agenda today, and, well, they are going to have a very busy and difficult day, so you can be quite sure that I have no intention of commenting on the report of the years 2017 and 2018. These reports stand by themselves, perhaps a little more like Martin Luther before the Imperial Assembly in Worms: I am standing here, otherwise there is nothing else I can say about this. Very briefly allow a subjective and very personal comment! As you know, on September 25th, my assignment expires at zero o'clock. Six years ago, I got this from you, and it was a big, big trust, and I felt like a talent that people trust. The talent was not in its original sense, but a unit of measurement, the talent was actually a very large sum, equivalent to 6,000 silver denarii. In the age of Julis Caesar, a mercenary soldier could have searched for this one talent in 26 years. Surely you all know the Gospel of Matthew, the famous proverb of chapter 25 in which the farmer leaves for a long time, and trusts his servants with a talent. The first servant made a thousand of them, the second servant made a hundred of them, the third buried the money in his care, and when the master returned, he gave it back to him. What became his destiny, we know heavenly capitalism: he was taken away from this sestertius, and he was cast into the outer darkness where wealth of weeping and gnashing teeth. However, I believe that the talent I received from you in the form of trust six years ago, but I tried to preserve it with this third servant's method. If you look at my face, you'll see that these striations have been ploughed for the last six years, if I let my beard grow instead of a beard, then it would be autumn, and my bite teeth have been a little crooked in the last six years, but the reckoning is complete. [[11.50]] I didn't form, I didn't steward, I didn't swap with that talent, if there is, at most I couldn't add. That outer darkness doesn't scare me, to be honest. And I can tell you this honestly: if you consider that the world you brought to me six years ago has not changed during this period, I can tell you this: I will not cry in that outer darkness, nor will I grind my teeth. Of course, I have all sorts of questions ahead of me. If, on the basis of my speech, I feel that I should be talking about something, indeed, about the report, I will, of course, do so, but also afterwards and again, thank you very much for the trust that I have had for the best six years of my life and career. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-06-25-61	Dear Parliament, I thank Mr László Székely, Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, for his heartening words. I now give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Judicial Committee, the author of the proposals for a resolution. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2019-06-25-62	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Commissioner, Madam Vice-President and Deputy Commissioner, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, as a committee responsible for tasks and powers, the reports on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies for 2017 and 2018 were discussed and adopted at its meeting on 18 June 2019. During the hearing, the committee examined the Fundamental Rights Commissioner Act 40. § 2 performance of the requirements of the accounts. Article 30 of the Fundamental Law states that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights carries out basic protection activities, that anyone can initiate proceedings. In addition, it sets out, in general terms, the fundamental rights of the Commissioner to investigate or investigate irregularities that have been brought to his attention in relation to fundamental rights, to initiate general or specific measures to remedy them. The Fundamental Rights Commissioner Act highlights the areas to which particular attention should be paid. In this context, both the two reports, i.e. the 2017 and the 18th year, present the fundamental rights protection activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the rights of children, the interests of future generations, the rights of nationalities living in Hungary, and the most vulnerable social groups, in particular the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. Ladies and Gentlemen, I would first like to talk about the 2017 report in a timely manner. The Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights received a total of 6058 complaints, of which 5161 were closed in 2017. That's 85 percent finishing efficiency. CHAPTER XXI In accordance with the requirements of the 20th century, complaints could also be submitted to the Office through a separate electronic system, and in addition, in 2017 the office gate helped to deal with electronic complaints. We must note from the statistics that there have often been complaints that did not fall within the remit of the Office. In 2017, 2942 such complaints were made, which is numerically significant. One of the most common types of such complaints is that the subject of the complaint was not an official procedure. 448 procedures were sent to the authorities, of which 353 were accepted by the recipients of the recommendation. This extremely high rate also shows the efforts of the authorities to adequately address the substantiated comments. On the basis of the statistics for 2018, it can be concluded that the number of persons with the complaint decreased compared to the previous year. In 2017, as I mentioned earlier, there were 6058 complaints, while in the last year this figure did not reach 5 000, it meant approximately 17 percent reduction. However, the proportion of cases completed is almost identical to that of the previous year. Ladies and Gentlemen, Both reports also cover the Office's activities with an international dimension. The Office, as a national human rights institution, is in continuous cooperation with the UN and UN bodies and other international institutions acting to protect human rights. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is a member of the Global Alliance of National Human Rights Institutions under the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, which brings together national human rights institutions. In international terms, it is worth noting that the Office is regularly represented in the UN Forum on Minority Affairs by the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality, on the basis of the situation of minority children and young people in 2017, as in Ajbt. an area which is also of particular importance to the public. Ladies and Gentlemen, The two accounts before us fully meet the requirements of the law. I propose the adoption of the resolution proposals by decision to the Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-06-25-63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Serbian ethnic advocate Alexov Lyubomir, who presents the first sentences of his speech in ethnic language and then translates them into Hungarian. You have the floor.
u2019-06-25-64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Poštovani Predsednice! Poštovana Skupštino! Odbor za narodnosti Maddarskog Parlamenta na osnovu 22 § XXXVI. zakona iz 2012. godine o Skupštine razmotrio izveštaj Zaštitnika građana. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is the XXXVI of 2012 on the National Assembly. Law 22. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his deputies are on the agenda. At its meeting on 12 March 2019 and then on 20 June 2019, the Committee discussed the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in the presence and information of Deputy Commissioner Sándor Erzsébet B/417. on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates, B/4398. It has drawn up reports and a resolution on them. During the reporting period, the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of National Rights considered monitoring, evaluation and control of the legislation that serves the interests of nationalities in Hungary as a priority; with his activities, he significantly facilitated the preparation of the necessary amendments to national law and the professional support of their justification and parliamentary acceptance. The Committee took note of its approval that, in addition to a significant number of cases of nationality, the Deputy Commissioner and his colleagues carried out several comprehensive investigations, issued several priority reports and opinions in principle, continued the visits to the county and organised significant ethnic cultural events in the Office. [[12.00]] The Committee applauded and thanked Dr. Szalayné Dr. Erzsébet Sándor for the successful work she has done over the last nearly six years and as a permanent member of the Advisory Committee on the Framework Convention on Minority Protection of the Council of Europe. Based on the reports and the practice of the past years, the Committee has assessed the cooperation between the Deputy Commissioner's Office and the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary as meaningful and effective, and is confident that the joint and effective work will continue. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary supports the adoption of reports on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2017 and his activities in 2018. The Ombudsman's institution has also done considerable work in the area of minority protection. The cornerstones of their work are the detection of problems, the finding of solutions to the problems identified, and the recommendation of solutions. In addition to their legal protection work, the tasks of awareness of rights are, in our opinion, the most important. We were pleased to read in the 2017 report that the Summer University of the European Minority Protection was organized for the fifth time, making sure that students, doctoral students and young lawyers with a special interest in minority protection gained insight into their work. This is important for nationalities, because learning the opinion of the future generation, their commitment to the cause, means ensuring that minority rights will continue to be enforced in the future. As a protector of national minority rights, they carried out their tasks in 2017 and 18 within the legal framework available, so that national protection can contribute more effectively to the enforcement of the rights of communities. But they still have a lot of work to do, because today we are experiencing a number of problems in which our fellow citizens, especially the Roma in Hungary, suffer discrimination because of their origin. At the same time, it is essential to combat discrimination in other areas. This includes the areas of national education, national self-government, the media, participation in decision-making on ethnic life situations. Deputy Commissioner, in resolving issues and problems affecting nationalities, she cooperates with national minority advocates, national self-governments and organisations. It has done a great deal and helped to make the gaps in the application of law increasingly disappear in the area of national law. The year 2018 was a very important stage for nationalities. Twenty-five years of nationality law. On 18 March 2018, a high-quality and large-scale international conference was held with the participation of the former and current actors of the Hungarian ethnic community, the XLIV of 1868, organized by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary. The 150th anniversary of the drafting of the Act and the LXXVII of 1993 on the rights of national and ethnic minorities. on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the creation of a law, on which Commissioner was also rapporteur. According to the report, in 2017, the Deputy Commissioner and his colleagues met several members of the communities by 30 percent compared to previous years. This growth rate is commendable. In 2018, we met at 242 different professional programs and ethnic events. We have also read in both annual reports the finding that the number of complaints concerning nationality has also increased significantly. On the one hand, the complaints submitted show that nationality public life is present in everyday life and that people dare raise their voice against possible adverse manifestations, but it is also regrettable that today we still have to fight for the full guarantee of fundamental and everyone's rights. Direct contacts, more personalised, smaller professional meetings and forums play a very important role in the area of effective work. In 2017, a large part of the conferences organised by the Deputy Commissioner were linked to the situation of national education, the exercise of the linguistic rights of nationalities, and Roma integration efforts. These questions are important to us, because they are essential to the realization of our identity. In January 2018, the Deputy Commissioner for Nationality, in the framework of a round-table discussion with the leaders of national minority self-governments, about the events of the national minority community, about the problems to be resolved, such as the challenges and opportunities related to parliamentary elections. It is also important to mention media use based on a two-way strategy in the life of nationalities. The vice-president's work has an important role to play in informing and raising awareness of the majority society in matters of nationality. Due to the lack and failure of national minority rights in the media, it is necessary to launch a comprehensive follow-up study. There has been a lot of dissatisfaction in relation to the outsourcing of the production of ethnic programmes and the reorganisations. Much remains to be done in the area of ethnic public media, as the programmes are broadcast at an unfavourable time, the studios are facing a number of problems, the training of replacements is not solved, and the national radio programmes are exiled to the outdated medium wave. There is no doubt that it has become unusual to organise a national cultural day and broadcast it all day long, but this does not replace information on nationality public life affecting the rest of the year. In this area, we are far from being able to say that problems can be resolved in a reassuring way. In May 2018, the Commissioner's Office hosted the opening of the national minority online language competition 2017-18 and the award ceremony of the national ethnic drawing competition and the exhibition of the best works received for the drawing contest. The exhibition showed fifty works of ethnic relevance. The ethnicity community welcomes and finds important the county visits held in 2017 and 18 in which the county government commissioners, the heads of government offices and the notaries of local governments draw their attention to the importance of administrative tasks in relation to the enforcement of minority rights. At the same time, we welcomed and proudly welcomed the presentation in 2017 of the ethnic figures of the 1956 Revolution and Freedom Fight, helping the majority society to learn about the historical figures of the Hungarian nationalities. We welcome the fact that in 2017 the deputy nationality ombudsman trained members of police personnel on equal treatment, equal opportunities and minority protection, and that from the spring of 2018, students will receive an unusual school teacher's class. In 2017, the leaders of nationalities living in Hungary focused on ombudsman studies on education, higher education and education. In the report, the sector's funding difficulties were highlighted and attention was drawn to the fact that the provision of high-quality ethnic textbooks and educational tools is one of the basic prerequisites for achieving the right to mother tongue education. In the context of a comprehensive follow-up study of the education of nationalities, the Deputy Commissioner pointed out what had been implemented in her 2011 report by 2017 and the problems faced by the education of nationalities. Although it can be concluded that progress has been made in 2017 to improve the education of national teachers, the multitude of training courses, the complexity of the conditions and the different application of law have resulted in uncertainty among students and higher education institutions. These uncertainties should be eliminated by statutory guarantees and the resources intended for the education of nationality should actually be targeted. [[12.10]] In 2018, as well, the issue of nationality educator training, the lack of nationality educator, inadequate content of ethnic textbooks, the definition of admission boundaries, the obstruction of educational obligations, the authorisation of private learning status, and the inclusion in the higher education admission procedure of her graduation scores from the language of nationality remained on the agenda. The problem is still being addressed today. The shortcomings identified are addressed by the representatives of national minority advocates and national minority self-governments, with the cooperation of EMMI and the Minister of National Economy, with more or less success. The Committee of Nationalities in Hungary welcomes social awareness-forming and enlightening activities. This activity will make a major contribution to a more balanced assessment of nationalities in Hungary, bringing the history and culture of nationalities to the majority society. In the autumn of 2017, an investigation was launched to explore the practice of the national CSD on nationality content in relation to the indication of my fellow Slovenian ethnicity spokesperson. The purpose of the resolution in principle was to explore and demonstrate the practice of national value collection on nationality content and to identify the interests of ethnic communities in the collection of our national values. On this issue, too, we would like to emphasise that the culture of nationalities has created many traditions and values that are still alive, which will benefit, please and enjoy not only our communities, but also the majority society. In conclusion, the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary assessed the cooperation between the Deputy Commissioner's Office and the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary as effective. The Parliament therefore supports the adoption of the report on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2017 and 2018. At the end of my speech, I would like to thank Dr. Szalayné Dr. Erzsébet Sándor and his colleagues for their directness, attention and ability to maintain a good working relationship with the leaders representing ethnic interests. The Commissioner's person has been a guarantee to us on the rugged path to enforcing national rights, as we have been given every day certainty and an exemplary commitment. I wish you every success in your work on behalf of myself and the members of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary. Thank you for listening.
u2019-06-25-65	Thank you, Mr Speaker. Dear Parliament, There will now be speaker speeches in a 30-30-minute time frame. I give the floor to Mr László Salacz, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-06-25-66	Mr President, Dear Commissioner, Madam Vice-President, Commissioner, Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 18 June 2019 the Parliament's Justice Committee discussed the reports on the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his alternates in 2017 and 2018, which it intends to propose in the proposals for a resolution before us. Dear House, The Fundamental Law of Hungary lays down, at constitutional level, that the main task of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is to carry out fundamental rights protection activities, and that any person who is in breach of his law may initiate proceedings. The fundamental law on the operation of the Ombudsman states that the Commissioner investigates and investigates any claims he has received in connection with fundamental rights and is entitled to initiate general or specific measures to remedy the infringements. This fundamental law places particular emphasis on certain areas, in particular on which the Ombudsman's fundamental rights protection institution must prevail. These areas are the procedures of public authorities, the possibility of initiating the control of standards, the rights of the most vulnerable and vulnerable sections of society, the rights of children and the interests of future generations, sustainable development, the prohibition of arbitrary discrimination and the protection of the rights of nationalities living in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, The 2017 and 2018 reports also address in detail the Ombudsman's own-initiative investigation into a number of issues relating to mediation and alternative conflict resolution in child rights matters, the state action against child prostitution, the legal situation in relation to illegal child abduction procedures and the enforcement of the guarantees provided for in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in public procedures for children. The 2018 report also provides that the Ombudsman made a legislative proposal to strengthen the fundamental rights protection function and to make it more effective, which he sent to the task and competent wallet. His intention is merely to correct certain provisions of the fundamental law on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in order to avoid difficulties in interpreting the law. Both reports to be discussed will also address the international activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his office. I would like to point out briefly that the office is in constant cooperation with the UN institutions. As an example, the Hungarian Ombudsman is a member of the global association of national human rights institutions. The defender of nationalities, as Deputy Commissioner, is regularly represented at the meetings of the UN Forum on Minority Affairs, dealing with priority topics such as the situation of minority children and young people, their opportunities in various social states. Dear House, Based on the figures from the 2017 report, there is an increasing number of people with complaints who turn to the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights by means of electronic communications. About 2700 submissions were received by e-mail or through a separate electronic system provided by the Office to receive notifications of general interest. Three of the submissions came in through the office gate used from the reference year, while for the year 2018, this number reached 48. It is noted that the number of complainants decreased during the reference years under examination. While in 2017, 6058 people contacted the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights with a complaint, in 2018, 4490 people in total used their right to file a complaint. The proportion of completed cases is approximately the same for the reference years under examination, with an efficiency rate above 80 per cent. Dear Parliament, The two reports submitted to the plenum meet the requirements of the law, and therefore the parliamentary group of the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Association supports the adoption of the proposed decision. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-25-67	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2019-06-25-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Commissioner, Madam Vice-President, Commissioner, It is a great pleasure for me to read a report in which it can be seen, indeed, that this institution, which has been forced into a very narrow field by the two-thirds majority since 2010, and that the institution with a career in democratic development since 1990, is confined to work on a narrow territory, but with a greater soul. [[12.20]] I am not disappointed in the Commissioner's speech because he was just as elegant, generous, determined, humble as I could otherwise know in his teaching work, and that was exactly the work he was doing in the codification of the civil code, which I thank you for, because there are chapters in which he has played a role. It is very important for me to keep some personalities in the Hungarian public life, a few certain points of assurance, who at a certain moment show the right mirror for both the government and the Parliament and society. I have to say, lately this circle has been very narrow. Commissioner László Székely and his institution are fortunate to hold the fort. I object to the fact that the 2017 report, which was submitted by the Office on 28 March 2018, is only now being discussed. I can't imagine the National Assembly couldn't find an appointment in 14 months. I would have been happy to have listened to it before, I would have liked to have read it, and I would have listened to the positions of both the Office and the parliamentary parties and the committees on this matter earlier. It is very welcome that this office has a very wide range of social, political and professional relationships. His international relationship system is outstanding and his openness in Hungary is unique to Hungarian society and the profession. This is clear from the accounts for practically both years. In order not to rob the office's staff, executives or fellow Members in the afternoon, what I cannot do is not to highlight a few questions from the accounts, but I am trying to keep them on a relatively narrow subject. I'm sure everyone knows and sees that I have two social groups that are my heart, even because they are quite vulnerable in our country, unfortunately, even 30 years after the change of regime, and this is children and people with disabilities. I must say that these two accounts are a rather strong mirror for society, a mirror for the institutional system, and a mirror for the government. I wouldn't be proud of the contents of these two reports if I were the government. Article XVI of the Fundamental Law It sets out the obligation to protect the rights of the child and clearly states that the child should be able to exercise the fullness of the rights and must provide the child with all the conditions appropriate to the age of the child to become an adult. The emphasis is Unfortunately, these two reports and the investigations written in them show that the Hungarian institutional system is not fit for the Convention on the Rights of the Child or for Article XVI of the Fundamental Law. The Commission shall be able to comply with the conditions set out in Article 4 of this Regulation. If I were in the position of the government, I would consider it my first and most important task, by examining the conclusions on institutional, legislative and professional shortages and incompetence arising from these cases. In 2015, Mr Ombudsperson decided to establish a strategy on the rights of the child, which meant that he had ordered five comprehensive investigations per year. Data collection was carried out and findings were developed as a result of data collection. It seems that this was an extremely good method, because it also focused attention on problems that were not supported by a sufficient number of complaints. Signals come from society, of course, but the fact that the office was ahead of the problems, ahead of the areas examined, I considered from the report that it resulted in a much richer substance, much clearer findings and much more effective proposals. It was extremely painful when we read in the report that the principle of proportionality and gradualness of the Child Rights Convention applies in child protection care. It was necessary to note that, unfortunately, very often it was not. It was extremely broad, and I am pleased that, after the examination of the office, the institutional system acknowledged that this practice had to be abolished, and this was the fact that children were very often removed from the family because of their financial and social situation. Most of them were such highlights. I was very pleased when he concluded and proposed to the institutions that the existential support for families and their life support should go hand in hand with dealing with children's difficult social, emotional and intellectual problems, that is to say, with the child the family should be cared for, and at least so much energy and activity, the power to ensure that families do not have a situation where the child protection system has to intervene, but with the combined support of the family, all these problems could be avoided. I was quite saddened when the report says that the basic supply is not enough, and that it is not enough to provide financial support, but that the principle of the procedure in the best interests of the child should be applied, and that, in fact, the institutions are not able to be effective without it. I was shocked that when, for example, he approached the Ministry of Human Resources with his requests and suggestions to the Office, the wallet responded to this by means of pretense measures. When the Office asked that a separate working group should be set up within the Ministry in order to analyse all the problems that have been presented to the government in a very plastic way, and to create a more effective work, whether through legislative or organisational restructuring of the institutional system or through the use of professionals. Unfortunately, we find that the government has not heard this. It is amazing to me that 30 years after the change of regime, children's rights today, as regards children's lives, still need to be mentioned in such a report and in its proposals, which could not have happened in a long time. I read incredibly sad about the horrors in various children's institutions and educational institutions. Actually, it's also a horror novel, these two reports. I believe that these could not have happened if the government had given proper attention to such institutions. Indeed, whether you like it or not, this is where I draw the government's attention to the fact that workers in such institutions need to be the most qualified, the most suitable, the most dedicated and paid people in Hungary, because this is the only way to avoid such terrible things from happening in the future. The other issue is the question of people with disabilities. I was shocked when I read in the report that the number of students of children with disabilities was not known, and thus the institutional system cannot be designed to provide the existing institutional system and professional staff for the existing population. Well, how is that possible, please, when we actually have to write down our foot size in some records and questionnaires, and how is it that the system has such a fundamental flaw? ! The wallet said to these questions that the legislation is unclear, incomplete, and they either ask or recommend that their powers and tasks should take place in a more circumstantial legislative environment. But, please, let me ask you this: do organisations representing the most important interests of children themselves, in the existing legislative environment, not find the appropriate means for our children to be fully protected? I gotta tell you, it doesn't take a piece of legislation, and that takes one thing: soul and heart. Well, if you love children, if you love the next generation, then you can find the most effective means of fully enforcing their rights. [[12.30]] From the 2018 report, in order not to hold you up for a long time, I would like to raise a question. The answer from the Ministry of Interior to the question of youth prostitution was amazing to me. It was amazing how the Home Secretary shook that question off and tried to show that after prostitution wasn't punishable, his organization had nothing to do with it. And it was shocking when the Commissioner had to respond to the fact that my friend, between the ages of 14 and 18, was the crime of someone, of course, not the victim, not the prostitute, but all those who supported it, who were around him and forced him into this life situation, and had to draw attention to the fact that if, for example, the criminal circle was to be cut off from the young person, his life situation might end. This was a shock to me, so I must say that the Commissioner's report has given me great motivation to visit the Minister of the Interior within a very short period of time for a consultation, because I think he has a job to do. One hundred words at a time, I would like to thank you for your organization's work. They must have a sense of absence, some sense of absence, reports themselves. You may feel that they could not be everywhere and stand up everywhere, but the thought is that if this institution were not, then many of our weak, vulnerable, unsupported countrymen would have a protective system, a safety net, and I would pay attention to them if this institution could not do so. Thank you very much for your work, thank you for the report. Of course, we will be most happy to vote in favour of the fact that our souls are crying about what is in the report. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and the independent.]]
u2019-06-25-69	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, Chairman of the Justice Committee, lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-25-70	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Mr Ombudsperson, Deputy. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speakers have already explained in detail their views on the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights' accounts for 2017-18, and I would just like to highlight the main points that are most important for the KDNP parliamentary group. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights continued to pay close attention to the priority areas of investigation in line with the relevant provisions and spirit of the Fundamental Rights Commissioner Act in 2017. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights looked at three areas: protection of children's rights, the rights of persons with disabilities and the rights of other most vulnerable groups. The two alternates of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights belong to the rights of nationalities living in Hungary and to the protection of the interests of future generations and the right to a healthy environment. In one of the key strategic children's rights issues, the Commissioner initiated an ex officio inquiry because he wanted to reveal how the guarantees, children's rights, proportionality and gradual requirements of the Convention on the Rights of the Child are applied in administrative procedures relating to the provision of child protection services, how the principle of non-relevance for primary material reasons applies. Every year, the Commissioner's practice on the rights of the child is an important and permanent element in the monitoring of the institutions of child protection services, in the framework of ex officio investigations based on complaints, signals or even press reports. In 2017, the Ombudsman conducted inquiries in a total of four specialised institutions. In 2017, it dealt with two comprehensive investigations, based on specific complaints concerning adoption, legislative practices and legislative anomalies. Almost all disability groups have appeared in the perspective of the Commissioner in 2017 during a specific, individual complaint, but this time, too, the most prominent attention has been focused on a group in terms of the right to human dignity, in particular because of the situation of residential institutions or the difficulties in early development of children. The Commissioner has been a permanent guest of the Inter-Diversal Committee on Disability and has assisted the legislative process in the established working group on issues that directly affect the lives of many people with disabilities during the course of the year. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his staff carried out a number of case-by-case or comprehensive inquiries in nursing, nursing and nursing homes, either on the basis of complaints or in the course of ex officio investigations using traditional county monitors. Ladies and Gentlemen, In 2017, too, a number of individual cases and, on a comprehensive basis, investigations were initiated following a specific complaint and ex officio. The three areas were: the right to life and human dignity, social rights and the requirements of the rule of law and procedural guarantees. In 2017, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights gave an opinion on 219 draft pieces of legislation, including two proposals of his own motion. In 2017, the complainants contacted the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights with 6058 submissions, and 973 cases went from the previous year. Of these, 5003 cases, including 5161 complaints, were completed. At the end of the year, 1055 open cases were registered. The Deputy Commissioner for Nationality sought to be present in the everyday life of communities and to monitor, collect and organise information on the implementation of the rights of nationalities in Hungary, in parallel with the current situation of ethnic communities and national public life. The number of programmes has been steadily increasing since the establishment of the Deputy Commissioner's institution. In particular, in 2017 the deputy commissioner and his colleagues managed to meet the members of the community several times by 30 percent compared to the previous year. The overall study on the education of nationalities is one of the most significant issues of nationality law in 2017, which was the result of a comparison of the results of previous studies, a review, analysis and aggregation of multi-annual experience. The Deputy Commissioner for Future Generations issued a resolution in principle on the implementation in Hungary of the UN sustainability development goals for the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Special attention was given to health damage caused by the state of the environment or its deterioration, responsibility for pollution and environmental damage was one of the core topics of the work of its spokesperson's secretariat. Ladies and Gentlemen, Then let's watch 2018! Within the framework of the Strategy on the Rights of the Child, there were three major topics in which the Commissioner's inquiry was completed in the first two quarters of 2018. The first analysed the state action against child prostitution and prevention and the situation of protection of children, the second monitored the legal situation in relation to child abduction procedures in a comprehensive manner, and the third reviewed the use of mediation and other alternative conflict resolution in child rights cases. In 2018, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights examined, in addition to strategic investigations, a number of highly varied topics, ranging from family support to adoption and child safety, to the provision of personal and material conditions for supervised contact, in relation to children's rights, as a result of which he pointed to maladministration in his report. Due to the function of the Commissioner, the Ájbt. promote the enforcement and protection of human rights in accordance with its requirements, and in doing so it must carry out social awareness-forming, enlightening activities and cooperate with all organisations and national institutions aimed at promoting fundamental rights protection. [[12.40]] In 2018, almost all disability groups appeared in the perspective of the Commissioner. In relation to a specific individual complaint, but most importantly, this time the right to human dignity, in particular, was surrounded by the functioning of residential institutions. In 2018, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights was asked to comment on 154 draft legislation. In 2018, the Ombudsman issued 119 reports and, in some 40 percent, in 43 cases, initiated an amendment to a law or an overview of a legal environment in general. In the light of the Commissioner's special competence as an international preventive mechanism for OPCAT, the Commissioner has also sought to investigate all complaints and reports from detained persons in this reporting period if his investigative powers were in place in the case. The UN Convention against torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment became part of the domestic legal system by Decree-Law No 3 of 1988. The 2011 CXLIII Convention on the Publication of an Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment In accordance with law, the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights acts in Hungary from 1 January 2015, as a national preventive mechanism, in person or with the assistance of his staff. On 1 January 2015, the OPCAT National Preventive Mechanism Department was founded to carry out the task, where recognised representatives of several professions, lawyers, educators and psychologists work. Staff of the Department visited 15 detention places in 2018 with the assistance of doctors and dietetic experts authorised on a case-by-case basis. The 2018 OPCAT NMM activity focused on the right to contact persons deprived of their personal leave. The Deputy Commissioner for Nationality and his colleagues participated in 242 different professional programmes and ethnic events both at home and across borders during the year. In particular, it should be pointed out that the Deputy Commissioner and his colleagues met the members of the community regularly in 2018, either through direct professional meetings, consultations, or by visiting events and events of ethnic communities. On the basis of the communication channels established in previous years and the professional standards laid down, the Deputy Commissioner continued in 2018 to communicate to the members of nationalities and majority society on legal and social issues affecting domestic communities. Like the predecessors of the Deputy Commissioner for Future Generations, he monitored the ongoing and extensive reorganisation of the environmental authority system and its impact on constitutional values and fundamental rights. Following the request of the National Environment Council, the OCT presented at its meeting on 8 March 2018 the criteria for the constitutional evaluation of the restructuring of the public organisation system and issued a resolution in principle on its constitutionality ideas, concerns and proposals for resolving them. Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to ask my fellow Members to adopt the report of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in 2017-18 and to support both proposals of the Judicial Committee for decisions on them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-25-71	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-25-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary! Dear Commissioner, Dear fellow Members, Commissioner, I would also like to say to you that we have had more difficult days than this, overall, and that we have had many more debates. What I can see from the tone and the findings of the speakers before me is that this report has not in any way aroused very deep remorse in anyone, nor in any way in its activities so far. Still, I'm trying to refer you to some areas, perhaps here, as many speakers, that have not been touched so far. It may also be that, in some ways, I will also go into repetitions. The role of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is of paramount importance, since the Ombudsman is able to act or should be able to combat the various violations of fundamental rights. This was done by László Székely when, highlighting perhaps the most serious cases, he revealed violations in children's homes and health institutions in many cases. The role of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights requires considerable expertise, preparedness and vocation, as the Commissioner and his colleagues encounter life situations that are shocking to all people. These include visits to or reports of any psychiatric institution or prison. It has also been the case that the Commissioner has pointed out legislative shortcomings. An example is the report by which you pointed out that there is no adequate legal background for coercive measures to be applied to patients in non-psychiatry institutions, which caused maladministration, for example, that the patient who was considered problematic was simply tied up. The reports of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights' activities in 2017 and 2018 provide a summary of the Ombudsman's activities, which gives Parliament not only the opportunity to get to know the activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, but also to give an opinion on the operation of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, thereby accepting or not accepting the Commissioner's report. We must conclude that László Székely, Ombudsman, has a very good certificate. The Parliament has always adopted its accounts by a large majority, with the work of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights being supported not only by the pro-government, but also by opposition representatives, since all of his accounts were supported by opposition parties, including the MSZP. There was therefore no complaint about its activities based on the assessment of the Parliament so far. It is therefore surprising what we read in the Commissioner's 2018 report, according to which, I quote, the staff of the Office is so low that not only is it not competitive with the wages of classic legal careers and the remuneration of civil servants of institutions with similar status as AJB, but it also does not achieve the benefits of civil servants working in certain medium-level public administrations as a result of the salary hijackings applied there. This is therefore the case of an institution, honourable Members, which has been carrying out its duties impeccably for years, in a manner approved by the Parliament. The tasks performed by the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights and his office deserve much greater financial appreciation, especially because, as László Székely points out, a special wage increase has already been made in the Office of Parliament and in the case of the State Audit Office. In addition, in the case of the latter, it was so large that the salary of an initial accountant could be close to a million forints. Due to the implementation of the protection of fundamental human rights in Hungary, it is absolutely necessary for the Commissioner's staff to receive remuneration which is appropriate to compensate for their invested work. On this basis, in agreement with Commissioner, it would be worth considering that the AJB's wage billboard should be the same as that of the Parliament's Office. I think this is an absolutely eligible and acceptable opinion. However, financial appreciation is not the only thing that is mentioned as a shortage when we are talking about the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights. It turned out that the Ministry of Justice would be moved to the seat of the Ombudsman's office, forcing the entire organisation of AJB to leave. The fact that they were supposed to move only in September makes their situation worse, but in March they saw demands from the government, in which May 15 was then marked as the date. In addition, they wanted to move the Commissioner's office to a place that would allow the Commissioner and all employees to work in an airspace, validating the ideology of the open office. However, this is a body that regularly works with special data, so the mere idea that this is feasible in such a place is absolutely unthinkable in our position. [[12.50]] On the basis of the above, it would therefore be eligible for the recognition of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and his office not only at the time of the hearing and the adoption of the reports, but also for the Parliament to do so in order to ensure that the protection of fundamental rights by the Ombudsman will be completed in Hungary. In addition to the above, the MSZP agrees with the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights that it is not acceptable to prevent the entry of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, his deputy or other co-worker in the performance of his or her investigations or duties, or to attempt to do so at any time. The Commissioner for Fundamental Rights' audit activities should cover all institutions associated with the protection of fundamental rights and where the Ombudsman can justify his proceedings. In view of this, the MSZP will once again vote in favour of adopting the Ombudsman's report. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2019-06-25-73	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the Democratic Coalition Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-25-74	Dear House, Mr Ombudsperson, We are always in a bit of a difficult situation when it comes to the ombudsman's report and its assessment, because, as you know and know, the kind of constitutional context that surrounds this office, as it was established, and the kind of concept that reduced the level of basic protection throughout constitutionality with the new Basic Law, has not met with our approval, and we cannot accept it today. The kind of intention to replace a strong and gradually evolving ombudsman's system with a single office after the change of regime gave rise to serious concerns when it was created, especially because there were no and today there are no strong guarantees guaranteeing the independence and full separation of the ombudsman's institution. This is why we respect the fact that the Ombudsman's office, its alternates, organised behind and behind him, has been able to rise above these circumstances and, in our view, carry out their task and work as it would be the responsibility of the Ombudsman's institution in a well-functioning rule of law and a well-functioning democracy. We very much appreciate the fact that this institution has been able to maintain its independence, its separation, its ability to overcome the sometimes very clear political demands and constraints that the government has formulated and to rise above the criticisms it received from my fellow Members here in previous years. In these two years, we see that these debates have calmed down, perhaps a kind of satisfaction, no support, this may be exaggeration, but let us say, from the government side of the Ombudsman's office which is not an obedient part of the system of national cooperation, it cannot be rejected or silenced in matters that are unpleasant to the government. This state of grace, this situation, has created an opportunity that is extremely important, I believe that it has given and created an extremely important role not only for fundamental rights, but for the whole country, to the Ombudsman's office, this institution. For it has allowed, in our view, an institution that stands up to these fundamental rights and human rights in an extremely hostile environment, without partiality and fear, in favour of these fundamental values. My fellow Members have presented a number of areas of inquiry, both on the part of the governing parties and on the part of the opposition, where important inquiries have been carried out by the ombudsman's office in recent years. I wouldn't mention any of these in detail. The only thing I would like to say, if I like to say, as my own personal recognition, is that I very much appreciate and consider the work that this institution is doing in the interests of children's rights, especially children in vulnerable, difficult situations and, where appropriate, in public care or other forms of institution. There is no doubt that this is one of the most vulnerable and most vulnerable layers, and I personally appreciate what you and your colleagues have done in this area, not only in the last two years, but in the last few years. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the impact of the Ombudsman's institution depends to a large extent on the fact that this social and political environment, which surrounds the institution, is very welcome, how open it is to the comments that are received. In this respect, unfortunately, I do not see the situation optimistic either, and I see that there are a series of issues where the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman's Office, has been able to achieve results, where the report has been followed by changes, minor or larger changes, but I can give you several examples where in very serious cases no substantive, positive government measures or government responses have been taken, or just some form of pretend action. For me, one of the most painful of these is the area of highlighting children and protecting them from a family, where another court ruling now states that the relevant case-law and legal situation do not meet the expectations required by the best interests of children. The picture that the ombudsman's report paints on the situation of fundamental rights, and the way in which these reports are received by government officials, the government, is not at all reassuring, even extremely disturbing and worrying. But this makes even more important the work done by the Ombudsman's Office and makes even more acknowledgmentable the work that has been done in recent years. That is precisely the case when we see it, we think it is very important to remain such a respected and prestigious institution that stands up for those who are weak themselves and who, for such a reason or reason, are ignored or unwilling to deal with their problems. Finally, let me make a very brief comment on the fact that one of the major debates about the formation of the current Ombudsman structure was when the independent national ombudsman, or the ombudsman of future generations, was subordinate to the ombudsman's office. There were various kinds of worries here. The kind of concern that this would lead to a lack of professional work, a cessation of professional work, has not been proven. These reports also demonstrate that the Ombudsman's alternates are prepared, of course, but are also committed and effective in carrying out professional work. However, the concern that this work and the results of this work were much less visible than in the previous period, was undoubtedly confirmed. This therefore continues to show that this legislative solution, which thus established the Office's organisation, is unfortunate. There would be a need for self-employed ombudsmans who are able to represent these areas effectively and effectively in the public domain on their own. In summary, I can therefore say that I would like to thank you for the work done by the Ombudsman, his deputies and the staff of the Office. There is a great need for this work today, perhaps it has never been so important what you are doing, what you are doing now. The report adequately reflects this activity, and we will therefore be able to support its adoption. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2019-06-25-75	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-25-76	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Commissioner, We have hundreds of pages of material, which reviews the work of two years, and we must say that this two-year report is very accurate, constructive and most often worrying about what the Fidesz government is doing in the name of the system of national cooperation. Thus, these reports refer to the assessment of the situation of constitutional rights, the protection of children's rights, the protection of fundamental rights for persons with disabilities, the most vulnerable social groups, the right to life, human dignity, freedom of communication, social rights or the state of the rule of law and procedural guarantees, and we could still have a long list. [[13.00]] It is very important to point out that many criticisms are being expressed by these activity reports, and several of my pro-government fellow Members have, by the way, very rightly thanked you for your work, acknowledged that this is a very accurate fact-finding work, but they have not expressed the obvious fact that, in some 99 percent of the cases, these reports are expressing very serious criticisms. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I think we're all dealing with this. It is the responsibility of the pro-government benches and the government, I think it is unquestionable in these matters, but I must say that we too have a great deal of responsibility to seek to explore cases that may be suspected of abuse, cases that would not only improve the situation of vulnerable people, but put them in an even more vulnerable position, and that we should strive to resolve these things, to make use of solutions. Otherwise, the LMP faction is constantly working in this spirit to put as many solutions as possible on the government's table. And obviously our task is also to organise, in addition to certain specific issues, the social support that can put enough pressure on the government to take action to resolve these issues. As has been highlighted in the reports of recent studies, I would like to point out: the social and legal perception of homelessness is quite mixed, changes in reception and reception are noticeable, but the focus of analysis remains vulnerable in almost all cases. The issue of homelessness is therefore based on the monitoring of the supply system from the street line, through a full overview of the legislative background and critical analysis. Following complaints from those who came to him, the Commissioner once again met with the most burning forms of poverty, housing and keeping the lid is an essential aspect of sustaining life, but for those living in extreme poverty, the levels of vulnerability are incomprehensible. Many families are affected by these problems. Similarly, the protection of older people's rights, for example, in relation to the institutional side of older people, and we could still list them. However, the starting point for the investigations in the report has always been the Fundamental Law adopted by the current government, which means that the government unfortunately does not even respect the standards it has created. Allow me to make a separate statement on the activities of the spokesperson for future generations. It is particularly regrettable that, while we were talking earlier about the independent parliamentary commissioner for future generations, this has changed since 2012, and now it has only the competence of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights to protect the interests of future generations. This shows, most of all, that in the eyes of the governing parties, future generations and their advocates are only secondary but not to us. The report presents the consistent work of the Deputy Commissioner for the Protection of the Interests of Future Generations in order to enforce and enforce the fundamental rights of law to a healthy environment and the protection of natural resources and values, bearing in mind the Constitutional Court's decision of 28/2017. According to the Fundamental Law, the present generation is subject to three main obligations: to preserve the option of choice, to maintain quality and to ensure access. Providing an option is based on the consideration that the living conditions of future generations can best be ensured if the inherited natural heritage is able to give future generations the freedom of choice in solving their problems, rather than putting future generations on a forced path. Pursuant to the requirement to maintain quality, efforts should be made to deliver the natural environment to future generations in at least the same condition that we have received from past generations. According to the requirement of access to natural resources, present generations are free to access available resources as long as they respect the fair interests of future generations. Serious sentences, while the government's intention and actual performance unfortunately go against all these requirements. The inventory is long. The priority of prevention and precautionary action, the state's obligation to protect the institutions, and the prohibition of withdrawal are in order. As a series of cases, it should be contested that the level of protection of the environment and nature guaranteed by law cannot be undermined by an individual authority decision. In the context of practical experience, it is necessary to point out once again how important ethical attitudes are, so that legal instruments can be enriched with content that differs from traditional approaches, such as the overweight of economic interests, excessive emphasis on the role of the market, and that rights and ethics are not permanently separated. Due to its specific topicality, the protection of settlement planning and settlement image, the protection of landscape and nature, the quantitative and qualitative protection of water, waste management, energy efficiency and the legal liability system for environmental protection are published among traditional themes. And not because much good would have happened in these areas, on the contrary: because of the withdrawal of error, there is a accumulation of error. It is not for nothing, because the legislation goes behind closed doors, leaving out the profession, stakeholders or even the ombudsman's office, because the government does not want this system to be good and sustainable for people, only to meet it, whatever it takes. This is why it is of particular importance that at least the Ombudsman follows this process, makes a vision and tries to enforce our rights. The administrative reform programme can be mentioned, which has just taken away its independence, capacity and freedom of access from our environmental institutions. Air purity, the environment free from heavy noise, the protection of our water resources is more than at risk. Our land, forest and water assets have become, to a large extent, annihilated by greedy oligarchs. There is no asbestos removal, no remediation of contaminated areas, even though the Deputy Ombudsman has drawn up specific proposals to address these problems, as well as to restore the chimney control service, which can also save lives. However, it can also be highlighted when, in the context of the opinion of the national waste management public service plan for 2017, the advocate stated that standardising the general requirements should not result in higher quality services being reduced by forcing local authorities or public service providers to transform systems already functioning in line with the waste hierarchy in a negative way in terms of the transition to the circular economy. Well, I must say, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, that our time is extremely short, and the whole list cannot be presented in this way, but there is essentially the two reports in black and white before us, and this time I would like to suggest to all my fellow members of the Government that they read these reports, look at their content, face them, and compare what they experience in everyday life. I would also like to thank the Commissioner for his work, the office for his work, the dedication to this work, and, of course, thank you for these extremely detailed and accurate reports. It is absolutely certain that the LMP's faction will be able to jointly enforce these problems in the future. I would like to appeal to you on two specific matters, both of which have been initiated by the Group of the LMP, and I would like to ask for the further involvement of the Office in solving these problems. One of these specific cases was an inquiry that you initiated on the basis of a letter of complaint, which stated that a speechless student with special needs had not been adequately developed for a year after his parents had him enrolled in a school instead of a designated institution, which, according to his basic document, did not provide education for students with speech deprivation. I would not go into detail here on all the parameters that you have identified in relation to this investigation, but according to our information, according to your opinion, the right of this child was violated in the specific case, because the school assumed that it knew about its specific educational needs, but these special activities were not among the public education tasks defined in its basic document. [[13.10]] The school also violated the requirement of legal certainty because it ignored the fact that the expert committee did not designate this school for the child. We think it would be extremely important that, if these things were established, it should also be the same fundamental right to meet the necessary professional, personal and material conditions in schools receiving students with special needs, to which Mr Ombudsperson also referred, because at the moment we must say that they are unfortunately not fulfilled, so very often parents themselves are fleeing the host schools, so they are also trying to avoid the opinion of the Committee of Experts. The large classes of 30-32 people, the non-accessibility classrooms and the lack of a medical educator are all among these criteria, and most of the teachers are not prepared either professionally or mentally to teach and manage the situation of SNI students. I mean, of course, teachers who don't deal with SNI students on a daily basis. So we would like to ask for your help, we have turned to the office on this matter, that we would like to ask for both an inquiry and a resolution in this case, because we are trying to resolve this problem as soon as possible. The other specific case concerns the operation of the Honvéd Hospital. I came to you myself for violations of fundamental rights concerning the situation of beneficiaries, asking for this to be investigated; I did so in my letter of 14 March 2019. I would also like to remind you a little bit of the importance of this in this room, that because of such problems in the Honvéd Hospital, the Budapest Regional Organisation of the Hungarian Medical Chamber also wrote an open letter in September 2018 to the Minister for Defence and Health, as well as to the Mayor. They asked that very urgent measures be taken to secure the functioning of a given healthcare provider, because the current solutions do not provide personal or material conditions for their doctors to carry out their responsible work in accordance with their professional qualifications, under appropriate personal and physical conditions, and this could endanger the care of patients. The Chamber drew attention to a number of things, without the need for completeness: the elimination of the insanity of the sick road, which requires emergency care for patients whose care would require a different path; the provision of a sufficient number of workers and other auxiliary staff, and a very large number of problems have arisen. Without appropriate measures, doctors meeting directly with the patient should bear ethical and criminal responsibility for security of supply, adequacy of care, and they are also exposed to public humiliations in the Chamber's attention. That is why I came to you with an application, and I would like to express a very serious criticism to the government here, because you mentioned in your reply that, at the moment, although you consider it necessary to conduct a comprehensive investigation on this issue, there is no way, since the institution is moving. I must say that I think it is a tragedy that the government may also threaten or hinder the operation of the office by moving to a temporary place in essence, and, after all, we have no information as to how long the office can stay there at all. I do not know how they will be able to carry out the task that, clearly, is a matter of life in Hungary today. So I would like to ask the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights that, as far as his options are concerned, obviously, given the circumstances, there should be an emergency investigation due to the situation at the Honvéd Hospital, as patients' health and life could be threatened by the situation there. I will also take this initiative in writing today, and I will ask the Government to immediately provide the necessary conditions for the long-term, secure and reassuring operation of the Office.
u2019-06-25-77	Thank you very much. Welcome, and welcome, Professor Székely. We will continue our work, and we are at the end of the speech. The first independent Member to apply may now speak, so I will give the floor to Congresswoman Bősz Anett. Here you go.
u2019-06-25-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Ombudsperson, Madam Vice-Ombudsperson, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to say, with regard to the debate that is currently taking place, that the best way to show the state of a society is how it treats the fallen and the minorities. The Hungarian Liberal Party has very much respect for the work of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, and the fact that there is one of the last rooks here that protects fundamental rights and the dignity of various social groups within the state institutional system in a situation that has been unresolved for many years, and in which the opposition is in vain. My fellow Members have discussed, of course, and I would also like to point out that we are very respectful of the way in which the Ombudsman and the entire office are fighting for children, people with disabilities and vulnerable social groups. This is incontrovertible, but it is very well illustrated by the many cases and requests for inquiry and other letters by the various members of the Ombudsman to the various members of the society, the situation in which neither the rule of law nor equal dignity nor the principle of equal treatment are in line with the state regulatory system or the state's functioning. It simply makes it clear that in many cases Hungarian citizens need to be extradited in order to enforce their equal rights and dignity. I consider this to be a social and political drama, and I would like to thank you for the fact that Professor is also working so hard with the current significantly reduced toolbox to maintain the dignity of people in this society. I would like to highlight a few cases that reflect quite well how thin this office should be balanced. Here is the case of the Academy of Sciences, in which the Ombudsman rightly spoke in favour of the MTA, but at the time when one of my opposition fellow Members turned to you, because he was concerned that the Ministry and the Academy would no longer be able to agree with each other in a fair manner, you were obliged to say in your reply that you were watching this case, but there is much you can no longer do. The same has happened, or I think it is very similar, when you have described in your resolution on the LGBTQ community, I quote that hiding and prejudices constitute a vicious circle, and also that sexual orientation should not constitute stigma. These are extremely correct and important findings, but I think that when you were invited to the opening of the Pride month, not to the street march and not to the loud events, but to a cultural event, you could simply send a letter and wish the gay community all the best for the fight that, I stress, is the fight for equality of rights. I would like to continue with the line, because it might even fit in, but the fact is that when Tünde Hando insisted on the idea that the National Council of Judges was not legitimate, and turned to the Commissioner of Fundamental Rights to help resolve the situation which he considered to be a constitutional crisis, which he himself created, I think it was not only unworthy of the position and office of the Ombudsman but also unworthy of the position of Tünde Hando. In such a situation, from the many stories seen in an indirect and direct way, I think it is very important that the work done by the Ombudsman and his office is very important, and I would also like to mention a few positive points, since I have seen it important to demonstrate how difficult it is for you to work in such detail. Thank you very much for your resolution to believe that premature children have a right to the continued presence of parents. I think that a country that has been a member of the European Union for a long time should have recognised this for a long time, similarly to the fact that, in health care, not only patients, not only women who are parents, not only children who have been born, but in many cases, workers are able to work under conditions worthy of European people. [[13.20]] Unfortunately, this is currently not ensured by the health system or by our social care system, and in many cases the rights of complete social groups are violated in our education system. I am very pleased to see that the Ombudsman, as much as he can do, speaks out in all such cases, but I find it a tragedy that he simply cannot do much more in the current cut-off powers of the office. So I would like to remind everyone once again that, unfortunately, within the system of national cooperation, the office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is perhaps the last of the state-established rooks still holding up. I respectfully ask you, thanking you both for your work and your report, which, of course, I will accept to continue. We hope that in the future there will be a public administration, a system of institutions, a government that, like you, understands it well, and not only understands it well, but also works to ensure that the principles of equality of law, equal dignity and equal treatment are above all in this country, because this has been a foundation in Europe for a long time, and I think that we have joined the European Union in order to become similar to the western partners of the European Union and to start a social life in which everyone can stand out without exception. Thank you again for your work, and please continue to do the same. Thank you for listening.
u2019-06-25-79	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We would now have two-minute speeches, but since no one has come forward to do so, we will continue our work with a standard speech. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP, please.
u2019-06-25-80	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ombudsperson, I only raised my voice to thank you for your work. When he was appointed, I had the opportunity and opportunity to consult with the President of the Republic, to talk about the processes at that time, who he wanted and with what reasons he wanted to appoint for this position. I must say, without indiscretion in relation to the private conversation at that time, at that time the President of the Republic's arguments were convincing to me as to your identity. This may sound strange from the mouth of an opposition Member, but there have been a lot of positive views about his report in the House just now, so I would like to say nothing more than that I think that time has justified the decision of the President of the Republic, it was right to choose you for this position, and therefore it is also a matter of respect for you and your colleagues. Once again, thank you very much for the past years, and, of course, also for your colleagues. I didn't want to add anything else to the debate. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-25-81	Thank you. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Would anyone still like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the joint general debate is closed. I will ask Mr László Székely, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. László Székely: No, thank you.]] It says no. I'll ask Congressman Vejkey, President of the Justice Committee, if you'd like to reflect. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: Very briefly, Mr. President.]] Here you go.
u2019-06-25-82	Ladies and Gentlemen, Mr President, Thank you for the floor. All speakers, all speakers acknowledged and praised the fact that both the 2017 and the 2018 Ombudsmen's reports show the fundamental rights protection activities of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights in accordance with the legal provisions. Based on this, B/417. and B/4398. We also recommend to the Parliament the reports and the proposals of the Judicial Committee's resolution. I therefore ask my fellow Members to vote in favour of the adoption of the reports, together with the proposals for a resolution. On behalf of myself and Fidesz-KDNP, I thank the Ombudsman very much for his work. Thank you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-25-83	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to inform you, Mr Parliament, that it is possible to submit amendments on Thursday at 4 p.m. A general debate on the proposal for a decision amending the heading of the central budget will follow until closure. Proposal submitted by the Economic Committee H/6543. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Sándor Hadházy, rapporteur of the Economic Committee, rapporteur on the agenda. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-25-84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, H/6543 amending the heading of the central budget The T/6359 amending certain laws necessary for the restructuring of the institutional system and funding of research, development and innovation systems is closely linked to the proposal for a decision. Act No T/6322 on the RFI amendment and the Central Budget of Hungary for 2020 by a legislative proposal, hereinafter referred to as the "Kvtv.'. The amendment of the KFI Act defines the research institute network of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences 15 research institutes and the Office of the Supported Research Groups as part of the new Eötvös Loránd Research Network, under the direction of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences on 1 September 2019. The National Assembly also establishes the Secretariat of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, which is the new governing body of the research institute network. The Kvtv. proposal establishes the central budget chapter of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network as a new central budget chapter, including the institutions of the research institute network and the Secretariat of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network as managing body of these institutions. According to the amendment of the KFI Act, the research institute network will be taken over from the MTA on 1 September 2019 and, in addition to the settlement of the Kvtv proposal by 2020, it will be necessary to settle the Kvtv proposal in an analogue way, but from September 2019, i.e. in a fractional year. Dear Parliament, In the national R &amp; D and innovation strategy, the government aims to increase R &amp; D expenditure in Hungary to 1.8 per cent of GDP by 2020 and to 3 per cent by 2030. Although the amount of RDI expenditure has been constantly increasing in Hungary since 2003, a significant increase in resources is also necessary to reach the 2020 target. Since 2008, businesses have also contributed to the total R &amp; D expenditure with an increasing volume of HUF 272.5 billion in 2017, amounting to 52.7 percent. The use of knowledge as a resource has assessed the role of universities and research institutes and therefore raises a legitimate need for their effective functioning. The Hungarian Academy of Sciences itself recognised the need to review its own institutional system and its financing, and accordingly, in 2011 it was decided by a decisive majority at the 182th extraordinary meeting of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences to implement the restructuring immediately. Government confidence is well reflected by the fact that the approved budget support of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in 2012 exceeded the previous year by 25.3 percent, and the grant amounted to HUF 43.5 billion. [[13.30]] However, the integrations of the research institute in 2011-12 have been without results, and in the case of several research centres in science, the transformation has resulted in only additional administrative burdens. In addition to the increase in operating grants, the government support for large investments in MTA since 2010 amounted to HUF 38.1 billion. In the reports submitted to the National Assembly, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences emphasized the underfunding of the institutional system itself, and that the funding is not properly coordinated, there is both a waste and a shortage. Ladies and gentlemen, At present, therefore, in the public funding research system, resources are largely fragmented between higher education institutions, research institutes belonging to the MTA and sectoral institutions supervised by different ministries. Furthermore, institutional R &amp; D funding is not always linked to performance, scientific excellence or the impact achieved. This justifies to a large extent the restructuring of the institutional system and funding of the Hungarian R &amp; D and innovation system, including the MTA research institute network. The proposal therefore establishes the central budget chapter of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network and sets out the title of Secretariat of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network in the new chapter. By 31 August 2019, the Institutes of the Research Network managed by the MTA will be transferred from a budgetary point of view to the newly created Eötvös Loránd Research Network. The Secretariat of the MTA, which has been responsible for managing organ functions so far, and in close connection with this, will transfer the pro rata part of the appropriations of the MTA Facility Management Centre to the Eötvös Loránd Research Network Secretariat. Dear House, In the new structure, Hungary's Government provides additional resources for the purposes of Hungarian RDI and basic and applied research, especially for the competitiveness of the country, thereby increasing the scope and extent of the grants that researchers can obtain in the form of applications. Furthermore, the development of a new organisational and financing model of the RDI will enable the focus of domestic RDI activities, the more efficient use of RDI resources, the strengthening of cooperation, and the integration of academic research into the Hungarian and international RDI system. Overall, the proposal for a decision contains forward-looking provisions in the area of domestic research and development and innovation, so I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-25-85	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll ask Mr. Secretary Cseresnyés if he'd like to speak now. [[Peter Cseresnyés: Yes.]] Here, you can speak for the government.
u2019-06-25-86	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that we are in favour of the proposal for a resolution, and with a few sentences I would like to explain why. Shaping the institutional system and funding of Hungarian R &amp; D and innovation is an essential prerequisite for Hungary's competitiveness, sustainable economic growth. The government increased the amount of funds spent in this area by HUF 32 billion in the Economic Protection Action Plan. This surplus is already reflected in the draft budget for next year. However, it is futile to increase the envelopes if expenditure is not used well and not with the expected efficiency. In the current public funding research system, resources are largely fragmented between higher education institutions, MTA research centres and sectoral institutions supervised by different ministries. Institutional R &amp; D funding is not always linked to performance, scientific excellence or the impact achieved. In the past, the MTA itself stated that the funding was not properly coordinated. Hungary's international lag strongly justifies the restructuring of the institutional system and funding, of which the research institute network of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is of course an important part. Dear Parliament, It is therefore essential to establish a new governance structure at the same distance from the MTA and the government to ensure that the research network community participates in the management. The resulting Eötvös Loránd Research Network constitutes a separate budget chapter established by law. In the governance model of the research institute network, the government and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences implement the participation of the scientific community in the management, based on the logic of the self-administration, with a free proposal. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian government finances significant improvements and provides significant additional resources in order to improve the country's competitiveness. The adoption of this Decision will contribute to the development of a single institutional system and funding for R &amp; D and innovation, and to a more effective use of results. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the proposals for a resolution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-25-87	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear a speech from the lead speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Jenő Manninger, the lead speaker of Fidesz. Here.
u2019-06-25-88	Mr President, Dear House, The proposal for a decision is in line with the T/6359 amending certain laws necessary for the restructuring of the institutional system and funding of the R &amp; D and innovation system. The Eötvös Loránd Research Network will be established with effect from 1 August 2019 and will be formed from 1 September 2019 by the offices of research institutes and supported research groups under the direction of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Managing organ licenses over research sites are exercised by the Secretariat of the Eötvös Loránd Research Network. In the national R &amp; D and innovation strategy, the government aims to increase R &amp; D expenditure in Hungary to 1.8 per cent of GDP by 2020 and to 3 per cent by 2030. The main reason for changing the institutional system and funding of the Hungarian R &amp; D and innovation system is that resources are currently largely fragmented between higher education institutions, research centres belonging to the MTA and sectoral institutions supervised by different ministries. In addition, institutional R &amp; D funding should be more dependent on scientific excellence and its efficiency. I can repeat, as stated in the presentation, that the Government of Hungary intends to provide additional resources in the new structure for the Hungarian RDI, i.e. research, development and innovation, as well as basic and applied research, as well as for the more efficient use of resources to help achieve social goals. We trust that this will create a more predictable model of operation, which will also serve the interests of researchers. Ladies and gentlemen, The government's aim is to ensure that research and development and innovation performance are at the forefront of Hungary at European level, as today countries that are able and want to respond quickly to changes can be the most successful. The proposal for a decision also serves this purpose. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-25-89	Thank you. Congresswoman Anita Potochanya Kőrösi, I'm sorry, I just didn't see it from the monitor, but you have the floor. Here you go.
u2019-06-25-90	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Several weeks and months ago, a debate started, a debate that not only took place here, within the walls of Parliament, but also affected a wide range of social groups, and this is the life of Hungarian science, the future of Hungarian science. Among my fellow Members, my fellow Member Brenner Koloman has already made his technical arguments several times and, taking into account the reactions of the scientific elite in view of the transformation situation marked by Minister Palkovic, I do not wish to repeat that, since the proposal for a decision before us is about amending the budget heading, which is in line with this. In view of the fact that we cannot support this politicalisation from the force, which overrides all scientific and professional arguments, since the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is about the abolition of the research networks below them, it is about its redeployment and integration into the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, Jobbik has already expressed its position in this professional debate, and we cannot support it, so we cannot support the amendment of the corresponding budget heading. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[13.40]]
u2019-06-25-91	Thank you very much. The leader of the Democratic Coalition is László Varju. Here you go.
u2019-06-25-92	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, If I have to put it briefly, then in fact three sentences describe the manner and circumstances of this law which, I think, clearly renders the proposal of the Secretary of State unacceptable [[Peter Cseresnyés: It's not mine!]] support, the Economic Committee shall take its decision. The first sentence of this kind applies to me that this eluded parliamentarianism that you are doing here. In their fear that it would otherwise be necessary to amend the budget law in order to take away the money of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and therefore to ensure the necessary structure in the budget, a parliamentary decision was taken, which was initiated by the Economic Committee on Tuesday. [[Dr. István Tiba is replaced by Dr. István Simicskó in the notary seat.]] Moreover, the Economic Committee takes an opinion on its own proposal for a decision and considers it excellent. I understand this, of course, that Mr Bánki Erik and his team consider this initiative to be excellent, but in addition to the need to talk about the eluded parliamentary aristocratic and mocked democracy, the next part is that this is the way to loot the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, this is the tool that they use to take away, otherwise, the resources that are worthy of being taken away from them, which have already been decided upon, and they intend to use it in a completely different way by other means. The president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is also instructed to do so as a task plan to provide for the Hungarian Treasury until 26 August 2019: the planned budget balance generated in previous years, the classification of expenditure under identification, revenue on an appropriate institutional and, within that, block-deep appropriation. So you are doing the slaughtering work that has been going on in the country for months now, and this is the next step, because the first step was, of course, the abolition of university leave, when CEU was driven away from Hungary, when everything was done to drive Hungary's university, which has been considered to be the best at the international level, away from Hungary. As a next step, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is being looted. This difference of opinion between you and us is, frankly, irreconcilable. What they're doing is unacceptable. This has nothing to do with democracy, the circumstances of the change of regime and its intention, in substance, in terms of its method. We can list other areas like this, but I'm not expanding beyond what's been presented here. I think that what you are now taking to your name, and in this sense you are supporting this initiative with your name on it, I hope that there will be a moment when you will regret it very much, and you will be very ashamed of your contribution to this. I understand that, at this moment, either the promises or the decent results that have been achieved on your part, or the political praise that you receive from the political decision maker, will reassure you in this sense, and will not disturb your conscience, will not prevent you from doing this slaughtering work. I am pleased that there are a number of Fidesz MEPs that I am pleased, of course, to place in quotes who can parade at events where they show with EU support and spending how good they are and how well they do their work. Well, dear ladies and gentlemen, it's not a job for the poor to take away from the rich what is otherwise unnecessary to them, or they think it is, but it's the other way around in your operation: you're taking what you really shouldn't do. For this reason, the Democratic Coalition stands for the freedom of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences; we object to the submission, justification and adoption of a draft law that is currently in front of us, which will implement it, as well as a draft resolution. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2019-06-25-93	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one has applied for a two-minute speech, and no one has applied in any genre. It's not a request, it's just a statement of the facts to you. [[Defiance. Dr. Csaba Gyüre: We thought so!]] However, it is my duty to ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no signal.]] I find that no, no further comments have been made. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Congressman Hadházy, if you'd like to reflect. [[Sándor Hadházy nodds.]] Here you go.
u2019-06-25-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, It would be very good if we could see clearly on this matter, and if we can see clearly, then there would be a clear speech afterwards. I must say as a fact that the item for research and development is a very significant item among EU funds. If you look at the use of this, you can see that the old EU countries can use 95 percent of this resource, the countries that joined later, such as Hungary, are also able to use 5 percent of it. If you look at only this one data, it is easy to say and see that something is not working well. R &amp; D activities are extremely important, the government is constantly increasing the resources needed for this in the budget, and we want these resources to be used as best as possible, and, of course, the possibility of cooperation with businesses, cooperation between universities and access to EU funds is also open to us. It's the guiding motif of the whole transformation, and that's what it is. And it's for the good of the country. Therefore, I would like to thank everyone who is positive in supporting and speaking with this proposal, and I would respectfully ask the opposition to think about what is good for the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2019-06-25-95	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time to speak after the agenda. However, I must rephrase this statement as a conditional sentence, since only one Member has applied, but he is not in the room. Unfortunately, we cannot listen to your speech. As a result, today's session will be closed. The speech after the agenda could not come to the end of my script, as there was no such thing. I will therefore inform you that the next meeting of the Parliament will take place on 1 July 2019. I thank you for your work, the meeting is closed. Good afternoon, everyone.
