u2019-06-12-0	Good afternoon. The 19th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Tiba and György László Lukács will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and to all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, Speaking before the agenda has been submitted by Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP, Mrs.Erzsébet: the climate is a matter of fact and not of consideration, so we also need immediate action in Hungary! It's an address. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-06-12-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, At around 7 p.m. yesterday here in Parliament, the LMP faction asked for a resolution proposal to announce the climate crisis, and it was shocking that only one pro-government politician, one representative from the government, was not present, and had to speak in front of the empty benches. I have to say, this has told the government a lot about its relationship to climate change. Climate change is here, and we feel it here in Hungary. During the first months of the year there was drought, and then a very rainy period, when perhaps too much rain fell suddenly. The problem is, of course, not that much rain has fallen, but that the precipitation distribution is a very serious problem. We will soon feel this on our skin, food prices are rising tremendously. The problem is that climate change is not changing linearly, but is undergoing chain reaction-like changes. Before last year's Katowice Climate Summit, the IPCC, the UN Intergovernmental Committee on Climate Change, presented a very dark future for us, and said that if there were no radical changes in the structure of the economy within 10 to 12 years, society would be at risk if societies were not climate conscious. We see that the governments of more and more European countries are beginning to react to this political change. Not so long ago, the British and Irish parliaments declared a climate crisis. The German government has created a climate cabinet due to the worsening of the situation and the acceleration of climate change and public protests. This climate cabinet has started its work, this year it will prepare and submit Germany's Climate Law, and it is expected that it will be adopted. However, if we come to Hungary, we see that the relationship between the government and the majority of the government to climate change is very, very controversial. We do not see the political will that the government wants to do everything it can to curb climate change and adapt to climate change. On one side, President János Áder talks almost constantly about the threat of climate change, repeatedly pointing out that this is the most pressing challenge of our time, and that if we do not act, then the entire civilization will be put at risk. Although the Prime Minister said that he stands by János Áder, this does not show much. Some examples: before the National Assembly, the climate strategy was here, but the National Assembly adopted a climate strategy which relies on inadequate data, as the strategy talks about the reduction of CO2 emissions in Hungary, while this increases from 2014. In addition, there are no specific figures, no instruments, no institutional systems and no resources in the strategy. We do not yet see the action plan, and there is no evidence of the action plan in the budget for next year. Another problem is that the government is still not aware of the percentage of human activity that is involved in climate change. He's trying to shake it off his shoulders, make a move here. Another problem is that when there may be an increase in climate awareness in society, he talks about Soros being behind it. And when the LMP presents a proposal for a decision on a climate crisis, the majority of the government will simply vote against it at the meeting of the Committee on Sustainable Development, not only abstaining, but against it. Therefore, it is time for the government to come clean, to want a climate bill to stop climate change, to start preparing for a carbon neutral path for the Hungarian economy and to be willing to draw up a budget that would help to curb climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, These are the real questions that will decide the next decades of Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the lines of LMP, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2019-06-12-2	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Péter Cseresnyés reflects. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and For many times now, I say that this topic is being raised for many times in Parliament before the agenda or on another occasion when it is possible to ask questions or to form an opinion. I am always obliged to say that you are banging open doors when you are talking about climate protection, climate policy, the government's climate policy, and you are asking questions about this, because it is obvious and clear that if you wanted to see what is real, it would be obvious to you that the government is committed to climate protection, to the policy of climate change mitigation. This is a fundamental principle, and there is plenty of evidence that I would like to quote some of them. However, you have expressed thoughts, and you have also formulated sentences in your speech that I would like to reject. Among other things, he said that the climate strategy operated with inadequate data, contained inadequate data. Unfortunately, I have to say that this sentence was something that one of your fellow Members said not so long ago, distorting reality, because one of his fellow Members, his fellow Groupers, put a sentence in my mouth, for example, that didn't even sound in Parliament, but he even wanted to put a sentence in my mouth that he could argue on your behalf on behalf of your climate strategy. So it would not be good for you to use bad data in order to criticize the government's climate policy or its fight against climate change in a speech like this. In fact, you are trying to mask your lack of topic with this proposal for a resolution, thereby inventing the Spanish wax, which shows that you are suffering from a lack of topic, suffering from a lack of political themes [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] And as a party that has no political message for society, as a mantra, it repeats its criticism from week to week with a certain criticism. But let's see how much the government has done to make sure that for climate change, everything it can do is done. [[9.10]] For example, you urge Hungary to participate in the implementation of the Paris Agreement, while you should be aware that the Hungarian Parliament has ratified this agreement among the first. In fact, the same can be said of another decisive agreement on climate protection, the Kigali Convention, which provides the basis for the fight against hydrofluorocarbons. This was ratified in 2018, first from the European Union. Implementation of the Convention alone can reduce and reduce warming by 0.5 degrees Celsius, according to experts. For the government, climate protection is a much wider process than could be achieved with some kind of efficiency within the framework of a single law. Among other things, we have announced programmes that have taken action to reduce emissions and CO2 emissions. For example, I would like to mention energy modernisation in 310 thousand households or developments in solar panels as part of the 'Home Warm' programme, and, in fact, as a result and as a result of other political and economic aid, the role of renewable energy sources has been significantly reduced in the proportion of emissions. By the end of 2018, almost 700 megawatts of capacity had been built, for example, in terms of solar power, and by 2030, as I have already said several times, we will increase the capacity for solar power generation to 3,000 megawatts. We have also achieved significant results in terms of electromobility, and in the next period we will continue to increase the number of charging stations and support the spread of electromobility by supporting car shopping. There's still a list of results, but I'd like to draw your attention. I ask you, for example, to support the investment in Paks, which is the biggest enemy of CO2 emissions, because the two new Paks blocks alone save 12 million tons of CO2 emissions. That's what you'd do to fight climate change. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-4	Dear Parliament, The representative of the Democratic Coalition Group, Imre László, asked for a pre-meeting speech:.. Újbuda is drowning in car traffic. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Újbuda is the capital XI. Its district is not only the most populous district of the capital, but also the fifth largest city in the country with its one and a half hundred thousand citizens. What the statistics do not account for is that now Newbuda has become practically the country's largest P+R parking lot. Three motorways rain on dozens of settlements of the agglomeration every morning, including more than 65,000 Érds, an endless stream of cars. All three highways lead through Kelenföld. For those coming to work in the capital, who do not wish to suffer the almost impenetrable traffic of the capital every morning, it is best to put their vehicles down here and continue by metro 4. The P+R parking lot, built next to Kelenföldi Railway Station, can be filled well before 8:00 a.m., the later arrivals leave their cars where they know, which makes Kelenföld and Újbuda very soon filled with parking cars. This shows two things clearly: that the P+R parking lot next to the railway station is very much needed and that this is no longer enough to serve increasing car traffic. Plus, Newbuda is already quite crowded today. Kelenföld, for example, is the most densely populated part of Budapest with almost 10,000 inhabitants per square kilometer after the city centre. With the planned new constructions, this congestion will only increase, making life more difficult for those living there. István Tarlós envisaged the introduction of the congestion charge. The Democratic Coalition supports this step, since the capital's traffic must be contained. However, I would point out that it is not enough to keep cars away from the central part of the city, because as a result, the parking situation in areas not covered by traffic charges in the city will only get worse. The city's transport and parking system needs to be completely redesigned and redesigned, in particular in addition to the opening stages of motorways, so that the intention to reduce traffic does not lead to more traffic chaos than is currently the case. Which is now the XI. As far as the district is concerned, the most important thing here would be the further construction of the 4th metro line, not only to the originally planned flower market, but to the shopping mall. This could also provide a huge relief for the traffic to the Richrét and Őrmező settlements and to the stores on the Budaörs border. After the current terminal at Kelenföld Railway Station, the metro should not, of course, go into the current depth, the solution in the form of a surface or bark railway could reduce the construction costs to fragments. However, it is essential to build P+R parking lots with high capacity at all stages of the new phase. Dear House, It is obvious that the capital is unable to make such improvements on its own initiative; rather, it would be able to maintain a slightly larger proportion of the tax revenue generated by the capitals for HUF 20 billion per day. But he can't stay, because the government, the majority of the government, is repulsive of local government, autonomy, application of the principle of subsidiarity, which is Article XI. Since Pope Piusz's encyclical with the beginning of Quadragesimo, he has been a pillar of modern Christian democracy. So I ask what the government intends to do to remedy the increasingly unmanageable traffic chaos that has vanquished the capital and, in particular, NewBuda. What do you intend to do to reduce the resulting air pollution, which is the highest of the OECD member countries in Hungary and is extremely high in Budapest? What do you intend to do to save the 12,000 citizens a year who, according to WHO's analysis, die from air pollution? Have you never considered that the rate of population loss can be reduced not only by increasing birth rates but also by reducing mortality rates? Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause for DK and Dialogue.]]
u2019-06-12-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr. Balázs Orbán, State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Office, reflects. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I want to clear one thing up. Budapest has always developed spectacularly when it had a civil government for Hungary and civil parties ruled the city. Between 2011-2014, the Hungarian government took over a HUF 217 billion debt accumulated by the Municipality of Budapest, the former left-wing city administration. The investments made and ongoing in Budapest since 2010 have been worth more than 2100 billion, and since 2010 the government and the capital jointly made more than 700 billion HUF of transport development investments in Budapest. In addition, all of this, which was not typical of the previous period, was achieved through cooperation between the government and the capital, by restoring the Council of Capital Public Developments as an institution. We are working to make Budapest one of the three most livable cities in Europe by 2030. Luckily, I can tell you about positive developments. If you look at the external dimension, so how attractive Budapest is to foreigners, then you can say that in most surveys, which are about the most favourable tourist destinations, Budapest will reach first or podium rankings. If we approach the issue from the point of view of living, therefore quality of life, this is the internal dimension of the matter, then I can tell you that Budapest is now ranked 34th, ahead of major cities such as Washington, Madrid, London or New York, on the list of the Economist Intelligence Unit Institute 2018. [[9.20]] We're working to get a better ranking on these rankings. The problem is that, while you are making criticisms, we should not forget that when you were in the government and you were responsible for Budapest, we saw trends that were opposite. So, just like you've been indebted to the country, you've been indebted to the settlements. You keep talking about the lack of resources for Budapest. You have been the ones who have constantly taken funds from the municipalities, while the tasks have been deployed there. In Budapest, from the Gyurcsány-Demszky era, we can only remember that the cost of the 4th metro investment has increased several times, billions have been spent on the government quarter that is not finally ready, and you are also burdened with the shortcomings in the transport development of Újbuda. So this condition is the result of failed urban development and urban planning. He mentioned metro 4 and its possible extension. Mayor Gábor Demszky, although he was on the roadshow for 20 years, was unable to build metro 4 under it, it was also built under the civilian government. And if we get to NewBuda and NewBuda's traffic situation, I can tell you that agglomeration motor transport is indeed a serious issue, 800 thousand inhabitants reach Budapest with 400 thousand individual motor vehicles, but I can tell you that the government has recognised this situation, we have taken substantial steps, and we also think what you said that the capital and the districts should not be abandoned in this respect. That is why we have decided on the following improvements, which will help you achieve all the criteria and goals you have set. On the one hand, the construction of a new Danube bridge, which would significantly reduce the car traffic of Újbuda, is expected to relieve downtown bridges and traffic nodes that you mentioned by 55 thousand cars a day. However, not only did you criticize this, but also the development and capacity expansion of the southern circular railway serves this purpose in our view. This has also been the subject of a government decision. This is one of the investments carried out in the coming years, also through EU support. We believe that the extension of tram 1 to Etele Square, the Kelenföldi railway station, is such an important step to complete in the summer of 2019, and we also consider the southern extension of the tram network as a development designed to reduce vehicle pressure from the agglomeration. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Lajos Korózs, representative of the MSZP, applied for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-9	Thank you. Good morning, fellow Members. It is now almost nine months ago that the Constitutional Court's decision, which was made in November of last year in the case of the invalids, is an issue. I, too, look forward to this difficult birth, because the deadline for the Government to make legislative amendments to the parties concerned was 31 March. The way I see it, the government should have focused on three things. On the one hand, it should have focused on infringements and, on the other, on the need for compensation and, on the other, on the problems of the supply system. If these three aspects are taken into account, it is clear why this decision of the Constitutional Court was taken at the beginning of November last year. First of all, because by 2012, by the time the pension system and its segment had been converted, there were a lot of people, especially the third group invalids, who suffered a violation of their rights by having suffered a kind of attack on the part of the government on their acquired status, because, in the context of complex reviews, the Constitutional Court also found that they had not taken into account their physical state, but that in the modified system they had simply reduced the supply of these people in a percentage statement, or that they had taken care of a lot of people. I'd like to make a suggestion for the rest of my time. By the way, I did this in part about a month ago in interpellation hours, and Minister Gulyás said that when drafting the legislation, the proposals that I submitted to the parliamentary decision would be taken into account, but we were not able to detail this at the time. Now allow me to do this and to recommend some aspects to your attention. One of these aspects is that the periods of insurance required should be differentiated on the basis of the age spent at the time of becoming unemployed, so that the higher age should, mutatis mutandis, require more periods of insurance, and then take into account not only the time completed during the period prior to the application but also the time spent in the insurance acquired at any time by the data subject. In addition, I propose that the period spent in insurance for entitlement to benefits should also be taken into account for the duration of higher education in the day-to-day course. And my next proposal is this: the concept of improvement must be defined in law, because now it is not defined what improvement means. According to this, recovery is a positive change in the health status of the person concerned under the rules of the medical profession, which simultaneously results in a change in the rating category in the complex rating system. That was my next suggestion. In addition, I propose that the reduction in care should not take place in the future only because of changes in the percentage values used to determine health status. If there was no actual improvement in the re-assessed cases, the classification shall be adjusted to take into account previous categories. If an improvement is established, the decision on this should be appealable in the same way as all others. In addition, I propose that the amount of benefit be taken into account for the amount of physical improvement or for the amount of invalidity pension fixed before 1 January 2012. I propose this primarily because, as I mentioned in my introduction, there is no consideration for this now. My further proposal: in this new law, it is necessary to define when rehabilitation, especially occupational rehabilitation, can be considered successful. For example, if those affected have managed to work in a job that suits their health, skills and ability, and their earnings reach at least 80% of the average income level established for their job. If occupational rehabilitation has not led to success and is not due to failure to cooperate with the recipient of the benefit, rehabilitation care should be re-established in the event of rehabilitation. Given that I've run out of time, I have no more suggestions, but I'll take that opportunity later. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2019-06-12-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. Secretary Bence Rétvári reflects. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Many were probably surprised by the Member's package of proposals, since he was, after all, the Secretary of State of the Social Wallet during a previous period, a member of the then pro-government majority, which he could still have taken advantage of. But somehow, when they are in opposition, we find it easy to make proposals, and when they are on the government, they act in the opposite direction, they adopt legislation in the opposite direction, they take away a month's pension, they take away a month's wages from teachers, and I could continue, and they try to make better proposals from the opposition. Honourable Congressman, Here in Parliament, I have also quoted you and Erika Szűcs, her former leader, her minister and Ferenc Gyurcsány several times, because in the years before 2010, when you were on the government, you have been told many times that this system, which worked earlier, is a system that is not working well. You said that there are hundreds of thousands of people who are getting some kind of disability care, even though they're actually capable of working, and they really need to work. However, no steps have been taken in any direction, nor in the direction that those who are in disabled care and are indeed unable to work will have a marked increase in their allowance, nor in the direction that those who are in a working or rehabilitable state will be able to choose jobs as much as possible and to make a living on wages. [[9.30]] Not even because unemployment has, of course, risen to record heights of 12 percent during this period. On the other hand, after 2010 we said that anyone who has the opportunity to work through his physical abilities, not to live on welfare, but to live on wages, should not receive a few tens of thousands of forints in the form of an allowance, which was usually the system of the socialists, but to earn hundreds of thousands or hundreds of thousands of forints as a wage, so let us go in this direction instead. And it doesn't come from itself, it's not just a matter of good intentions, it's a matter of a lot of legislative changes and additional resources, because with the introduction of the rehabilitation card, we were able to replicate the number of people who could work as disabled workers and help tens of thousands of people. For two reasons: on the one hand, because we recognise with the rehabilitation card that in some way the employer's use of a changed workforce, whether in the framework of training or in the case of a future employment contract, means that the employer can benefit from the public burden they pay, and on the other hand, with a good economic policy, we have increased the number of employees by over 700 thousand, of which tens of thousands of people employed as disabled workers. So at the same time we were able to make both the employer and the workers with changed job skills interested in working, so many tens of thousands of people have left the world of aid and are now working as workers. You wanted to prevent this whole new system, and on the one hand you did not vote here in Parliament, and then you turned to the Constitutional Court. But the decision of the Constitutional Court, which you quoted here at the beginning of your speech, did not fulfill at all the intentions that you said earlier, that the whole system will be abolished here, the whole system will be annulled retroactively by the Constitutional Court and, for reasons of ownership and other protections, there will be a full re-regulation of the area with retroactive effect, but the Constitutional Court has also imposed a legislative task for the government in detail rules for the future. So it wasn't at all the position of the Constitutional Court that you submitted as a petition. Here, however, the Constitutional Court has imposed a very difficult task for the government, which no one in Hungary has ever been able to jump anywhere else, as a medical expert has to determine how well one, two, three or four years ago someone was fit to work. This is a very, very difficult task, which is why the government is constantly discussing it with various proposals, various negotiating circles, but obviously it is not easy for a doctor to prescribe such a task, so that he can do it, that he is now telling us how many people, say, were working in 2017. That's not easy for them, the medical experts. So, honourable Member, this system that we have built after 2010 has been a huge advantage for people with disabilities, a lot more people can work, and therefore their monthly income is much higher, and the detailed rules that we need to correct, the conciliations [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We will continue. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-12-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Member Tamás Mellár, member of the Group of Dialogue, has applied for a speech before the agenda: on current affairs. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, First of all, I would like to apologize to you for my hoarse voice, which has not been corrected in the past, but perhaps this sinking sound will be appropriate to what I have to say. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: But the team won! Nacsa Lőrinc: At least we won!]] And here's what I want to say. Today, the National Assembly receives a draft law that decisively influences the fate of science and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. This bill is unconstitutional, undemocratic and flawed in its statement by the Stadium 28 group, composed of academics, academic doctors and university teachers. It is unconstitutional because it goes against the freedom of science and the MTA and because it violates the right to property by restricting the exercise of ownership. It is anti-democratic because, ignoring the unusually clear expression of the will of those concerned, it is preparing a decision contrary to that decision, without supporting it with reasonable arguments. This is about putting the research institutes under the Ministry. You missed because you want science to be subject to a willful, narrow-minded, voluntarist policy. So far, the Stadium statement. A similar brutal attack on Hungarian science and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences was last launched by political power in 1949. It is not difficult to see the similarity between the Hungarian Scientific Council set up in 1949 and the National Science Policy Committee in the current draft law. The Council of 49 has been given the role of, and I quote, planning to direct the theoretical and applied sciences at the highest level. If we replace the, as a plan, with today's fashionable, innovation, then we get that it controls theoretical and applied sciences at the highest level for innovation, we have already arrived in 2019. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, You will have the historical responsibility if you vote in favour of this law. Their children and grandchildren will have to give an account of how István Széchenyi contributed to the destruction of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, which was created by the largest Hungarians in two hundred years. I don't envy you. And they cannot rely on the need to assign research institutions to the Ministry for improving innovation competitiveness, because this is not factually true. Academic institutions still work very well today, which has been shown by several surveys and due diligence. In addition, research institutes are not responsible for innovation, but, as their name suggests, research. Why do you not like to account for innovation in business and in the large business community that makes huge profits every year? And the Ministry does not have a new concept that would show that after expropriation, the research network would be better functioning, nor can they rely on more money for research, because although it is true that more money is earmarked in the 2020 budget, but since the institutions, the research institutions, are losing their independence, this means that the entrepreneurial sector, the favourite businesses, can go to this source, and as you can see in universities, they are able to pump significant amounts of these funds, because that is precisely the aim of these enterprises continuing to apply to both public and EU funds. The members of the Lendület research group wrote about this draft law:. The planned transformation threatens the emigration of internationally competitive young researchers and the loss of a whole generation of scientists. I like to know that the participants in the Lendület research program were those young, talented researchers working in the West, who have been successfully recalled in recent years, as a result of the Pálinkás program. [[Németh Szilárd István: No, this is the government program!]] , in order to improve the quality of Hungarian research. Now, if that's how they put it, I think there's a reason for us to be on our own. Dear Fidesz Honatas! The Orbán system is nearing its end, and they will soon have to account for their actions. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Nine years is nearing its end!]] Don't forget that. Vote no for the bill, then perhaps you will forgive your posterity. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-06-12-14	State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés reflects. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It seems that the dialogue or certain members of the Dialogue faction are stuck with accusations, and I have to say, as one of your fellow factions had to say yesterday, it seems that you are always starting out on your own, when you accuse, you talk about extorting money. 'Cause as I understand it, and I remember yesterday as if it were yesterday in my rejoinder, you were, for example, prosecuted by the SAO for mismanagement. So you'd better step back from the accusations a little bit. [[Zsolt Gréczy: This cynicism...]] First, they'd sweep their own porters and look around at how they handle their own economic affairs. But, of course, I know what you were talking about, Congressman, I've been listening to you expressing your concerns about the Academy of Sciences. [[Noise from the benches of opposition parties.]] But the credibility of your words is questioned, among other things, by a statement from about a year and a half ago, when you said that you would want to be independent in the ranks of Members of Parliament, and that you would not join any factions. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] And then, for the first time, when his interest desired him, he immediately entered the faction with a very mixed composition. [[9.40]] There's supposed to be an independent congressman, there's a socialist in it, and he's still a member of the Socialist Party. [[Bence of Turdai: What do you think of MTA?]] and dialogue representatives who are almost ticked and stick to the socialists; perhaps so that they can speak and make the various accusations here from week to week, which, of course, has no basis at all. And what will happen to MTA, of course, in the debate that begins this afternoon, you can say that you should not make various accusations here before the agenda, but that you will make a concrete statement during the debate on the draft law. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] you will receive from the Minister the answers that you, in you, will have, in substance, the answers for which this draft law will come before this House. But to give a summary of what I have said on several occasions about the intention of the MTA to transform, let me do it now, repeating myself several times, that, of course, the government's aim is that the research institutes of the MTA can serve Hungarian society more effectively, represent and serve the interests of the economy and the development of the economy more effectively. This requires a more direct support system, and the direct support system means that more money will be available for innovation, research and development, for example, next year, because the government knows, sees and does so to increase this efficiency, for example by extending resources, which means that research and development and innovation will be increased by HUF 32 billion from next year. For example, we also support companies whose innovative activities you lacked in your speech, which can effectively contribute to innovation. Of course, we want to ensure that, in addition to basic research, the importance of which will remain in the next period as well as in the institutions carrying out basic research, research institutions can operate more efficiently and use resources that can directly represent the interests of the economy. Moreover, why the transformation is necessary can also be justified by the fact that international knowledge centres and I said this yesterday, the European Commission has also confirmed that the Hungarian scientific system has very serious challenges. In other words, this means that the scientific institution network that could otherwise help the Hungarian economy is not operating effectively enough at the moment, and could help and serve the development of the Hungarian economy. Therefore, I would like to list some basic principles for you, along which we want to increase this particular efficiency. The government does not want less, but precisely more research, stronger and more efficient research, and therefore, as I have already said, it is spending more money on this. The aim is to ensure that billions of Hungarian scientific research are not lost without tangible results, but for society as tangible results for the economy. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I want you to show up. If you have any concerns or questions, I ask you to speak in the debate that begins today, and, as I said at the beginning of my speech, you will have all your questions answered. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-16	Member Ádám Mirkóczki, the representative of Jobbik, applied for a speech before the agenda:. How credible is the government's policy? It's an address. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I begin my actual statement, as Chairman of the National Security Committee, I would like to begin by expressing our thanks, our appreciation and our appreciation to the professionals and authorities involved in the rescue work of the Danube ship disaster. Turning to my specific point: the challenges and opportunities of a country are shaped by a great many things, such as immigration, but also emigration, where appropriate. I would now like to share some data with you through these glasses, which is relatively recent, and I have received these data from the Immigration and Asylum Office. It did not collect the various residence, nationality and other applications, but only the number of residence permits submitted for work. In 2017, such a residence permit for work was 18 thousand in total in Hungary, for simplicity, in 2018, already 46 thousand, and now, in 2019 alone, more than 9 thousand in the first month. I have not received a complete breakdown in most of my applications, but most of them come from Ukraine, Serbia, China, Vietnam, Kosovo, India, Turkey and similar areas. In itself, the arrival of 72 thousand and even 73 thousand workers in Hungary for a long period of two years should not be a problem, and it could even be seen that if the economy is so large that domestic workers are not able to fill it, this could be a positive value. However, if we look more closely at the situation in Hungary, that is not the case. We see that because hundreds of thousands of Hungarians migrated from Hungary to Western Europe or the rest of the world because of existential problems and livelihood problems, the Hungarian economy tries to process or fill this labour shortage from eastern and Middle Eastern regions. However, this also highlights a very serious problem. It is quite obvious that if we accept the basic principle that Hungarian young people, skilled workers, graduates, Hungarian people are going abroad for existential reasons, then their seduction and keeping them on the ground should primarily result in wage increases, primarily providing them with financial security. However, this is not the case. And if we go along this logic, we can see that these are the workers from the East and who knows where they come from, who guarantee that the Hungarian wage catch-up is not so high; I would like to stress that I do not dispute that there have been wage increases in recent years, wage catch-ups, but what I criticise is the rate of wage increases. On the basis of that, it is evident that it is not sufficient. I remember when Jobbik started its EU wage initiative and so to speak, a lot of people smiled, especially the Hungarian government. They smiled that this was a completely impossible mission and could not be done, and today we are talking about the fact that the European Commission itself is dealing with this issue in substance. I would ask you, with all due respect, to take the lead as the responsible government of Hungary. Take the lead in the initiative of how the funds, proposals and amounts used for integration within the European Union from cohesion funds can be used to catch up on the Hungarian wage, either through the tax relief of small and medium-sized enterprises or by other means to catch up on Hungarian wages. Because if we don't stop this process and it's obvious that it doesn't go overnight, then it's not too much to say that there is a kind of population exchange in Hungary, whether you want to or not. On the one hand, there are masses emigrated for existential reasons, and on the other hand, there are masses of immigrants who are cheap workers. And I think that if we take this seriously, that this initiative cannot be taken away, and that you have no other task than to take the lead in this, because more and more people in the European Union are dealing with this issue, and if we are serious about the protection of Hungary and the well-being of Hungarian young people, then you must be the flag bearers. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[9.50]]
u2019-06-12-18	Secretary Balázs Orbán, please.
u2019-06-12-19	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, You mentioned a number of topics in your speech, but two issues were highlighted: immigration and emigration. These are the two issues in which Jobbik's policy and the position it represents are completely untrue. One is immigration. We've been arguing about this for a long time now. However, in 2015, 400 thousand people decided to attempt to reach Western Europe through the green border, without cooperating with all kinds of authorities. This is obviously a national security and public security risk that the Hungarian government had to take action against. The Hungarian Government has tried to act with several instruments, and these instruments have been attacked in several cases and in several ways by the European Union. You've done the same for Jobbik. These devices were attacked. They did not think the fence was an appropriate tool to stop illegal migration. When we initiated a referendum, they did not support that referendum; they voted against the amendment of the basic law which was intended to secure Hungary's positions in the fight against the European Union and constantly attack the government's policy on immigration. [[Adam Mirkóczki: We supported them all! Intruder from the benches of Jobbik: Lies! Shame on you.]] This is a question of illegal migration. I am sorry, I am just trying to answer the points made by the Member. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: How did the defence go there, my friend? More interruptions from Jobbik's benches.]] The other part of immigration is when people legally work in Hungary as foreigners. Here the emphasis is on the word "legal" [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes. György Szilágyi: The settlement bond holders!]] and that the number of these foreigners, who take up work in Hungary, can only happen in deficit trades and in accordance with the government's decision. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't lie! To announce, huh? You're not telling the truth!]] In this regard, you have also been alarming me in the European Parliament election campaign, raising alarms, and it has been revealed since then that the number of foreigners legally working in Hungary is also low in comparison with the EU. We think it's right. It is right because Hungarian people have to fill Hungarian jobs in the first place. Our policy is trying to help achieve this goal. So we're not talking about any population exchange here. The other thing you mentioned was emigration. However, statistics say that, on the one hand, we are talking about a phenomenon in Central and Eastern Europe, on the other hand, Hungary is, thank God, the least affected by this phenomenon in Central and Eastern European countries. 5.2 percent is the proportion that we are talking about in other countries over 10%. [[György Szilágyi: Everything is fine with the government.]] In addition, I can say a third thing, and this is obviously also related to the Hungarian government's policy: the trend seems to be turning around. And I'm not saying that. The Statistical Office is saying that. Not the Hungarian Statistical Office, but also the European Statistical Office, as last year more Hungarian citizens born in Hungary, but living abroad, have come home than those who left the country. So it is said that the net migration balance is now positive. We're very happy for you. On the one hand, we think that those who work abroad are hard, worthy of appreciation, and, on the other hand, we are glad to have experience abroad, and our goal is to lure everyone home. That's why we're happy about this trend. I do not expect that, given that you are a member of the opposition Parliament, so it is not your job to praise the government, but at least to record and acknowledge the fact that this trend is taking place, and this is not a one-off figure, but it is obviously closely linked to economic growth or wage catching up. I would have thanked you if we'd recorded this fact together. Then he mentioned the issue of wages. It is, after all, that this government, which is the government of tax reductions, is the government that reduces the tax burden on wages. There is still a proposal before Parliament to reduce the tax burden on employers. In 2010, the minimum wage was 73,500 forints, now rising to 149,000 forints in 2019. Since May 2010, net income has increased by 53 percent. That's not enough. We also believe that we need to catch up on wages, but this requires not words, but actions, so the government wants to pursue the policy of action in this area as well. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-12-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr János Harghitai, representative of the KDNP, applied for a speech before the agenda: "The budget for supporting families." Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-12-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Next week we will discuss and start the budget negotiations on the 2020 budget and, of course, the legislative package on which it is based, including the tax laws. In each parliamentary term, this summer period, I can say for sure, is the most important law that we have before us. This also gives every parliamentary faction the opportunity to relate in some way to the social image that a government puts before Parliament by submitting the law, and the factions have to express their views on this. Lucky for us, our ambition is that this will happen, and on 12 July we will adopt this law, hopefully with your support. In a budget, there is a long-term social image in a good case, since a budget alone is difficult to interpret. It is always appropriate to interpret the chain of budgets. I said that in good times there was a social vision, because I have been a member of the budget committee for 20 years, and from the socialist period, I would find it difficult to formulate a social vision that was reflected in the budgets at that time. However, in the case of the Orbán government, this is certainly the case. Since 2010, we have invested heavily in family support, and this is what we do every year. I am just reminding my fellow Members of the transformation of the tax system of some time, which has reduced personal income tax on a large scale over the years, and we have given important subsidies to families and measures that have been taken since then. In addition to long-term goals, society, there is always a kind of topicality of the budget. Such a regrettable topicality is dealing with immigration problems, which is a basically security policy issue from the point of view of the budget, or the slowing down of the euro area, to which our budget must respond. In the absence of time, I will not talk about this for a long time, but I will not stop to note that the last point of this 13 plus 1-point action plan, which the government has formulated, is the Hungarian superstate bond. I use this word because I read on the Index that the Hungarian population bought 529 billion of this superstate bond in a week. This indicates two things: a successful sovereign debt, and there is something to buy these resources from. This is the result of Hungarian economic policy and the economic policy of the Orbán government. But let us move on to what we think is family policy in this budget and which also serves our long-term objectives. So far, Hungary has spent the most on family support in Europe in proportion to GDP. In the 2020 budget, this total amount will be HUF 2228 billion, which we have at our disposal. This is 224 billion more than the current budget of the 19th budget. These are welcome numbers. Let us briefly see what the government intends to spend on realising the family protection action plan. This budget has the resources for baby shower support, the budget creates the resources for what the government has decided and has expanded the preferential lending options of the CSOK. We have also decided in the action plan that the budget will also cover the transfer of mortgage to families with children. I'm guessing it's a popular measure of the government, and this is where we're gonna provide funding for big family car shopping. In 2020 there is even more resources for nursery construction than this year; in my constituency, Szászvár, we also handed over such a nursery. The four-children's mothers are free from this budget; it provides children; free textbook supply has been going on for years; it is now being completed, and it will be complete from the 2020-21 school year. These may have been the most important points of our family protection support system that we will have the opportunity to exchange ideas about next week. I also think that opposition parties can express their will and support during the budget negotiations. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[10.00]]
u2019-06-12-22	Thank you very much. On behalf of the government, Secretary of State Bence Rétvári reflects. Here.
u2019-06-12-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, For the government, the child is the first and not only when planning the budget for next year, but also when planning all budgets submitted since 2010. This is why GDP, i.e. the value of family subsidies in Hungary compared to the total national product, could indeed rise in a record high proportion, in a 4.5 percent ratio. That is why, as you said, in the budget next year, we have tried to provide an additional surplus of HUF 224 billion in total to Hungarian families. This was necessary since 2010, because, as you said, we started from HUF 960 billion, and next year's budget is now HUF 2226-2228 billion. After all, the socialist period was a time of austerity for Hungarian families. Ferenc Gyurcsány and his allies did everything they could then [[Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] When, due to some misguided economic policy decision, there was a shortage in the budget to be taken from families. I was married without any greater concern. When it was necessary, they wanted to tax the family allowance, including Ferenc Gyurcsány, Gyula Horn. When they needed it, they took away the full family tax relief for one and two children. Then they took away most of the tax relief from the children. They didn't want to give support for the purchase of the apartment, they took it, in return they chased the Hungarian families into foreign exchange loans, and in the meantime they raised the rent fifteen times, and during that period zero children reached any Erzsébet camp, a discount holiday, so that we could help the families. Thus, after such a period, we really needed to come a time when Hungarian families would receive more, and I think that we can be proud of Hungarian people, we can be proud of Hungarian families, because Hungary is a family-friendly country, we are approaching the image of a family-friendly country that we consider ideal. While the countries of Western Europe spend on migration and encourage migration, the Central European countries support family policy, this is also seen in the so-called childbearing mood and fertility rate. After all, while the overall decline in childbearing in Europe has decreased by almost 2 percent since 2010, it has increased by more than 10 percent in the Visegrád countries, and in Hungary there is an increase of 20 percent in terms of childbearing. Thus, while in 2010 we were the last of the very last, we were 28 of the 28 children in the mood for children in Europe, thanks to the family-friendly decisions of recent years, we have now left several countries, and we have put Austria, Slovakia, Finland, Poland, Croatia, Luxembourg, Portugal, Greece, Cyprus, Italy, Spain and Malta behind us. They were all ahead of us in 2010, and by 2017, by 2018, they were now behind us. So it was worth the budget surplus over the last few years. The budget for next year is therefore the budget for supporting families. A wide range of measures announced in recent months can be found in next year's budget. Thus, there is the budget line of the baby shower support, the former preferential loan expansion of the CSOK beyond the already used facility, the expansion of the mortgage reduction of families with children: the state pays one million forints for the second child instead of the family, the third child already pays 4 million forints, and another one million forints for each additional child. It includes a car shopping program for large families, where families with three children pay up to half the price of the seven-seater car instead of the family. There are also sources of nursery development, as in the coming years we want to create 20,000 new cradle seats. It is covered by the fact that mothers who have four children are fully exempt for the rest of their lives, that they do not have to pay a penny after the fourth child is taken, and that there is also the coverage of the grandparents' child in the next year's budget. But it is important for families that next year the textbook supply is free of charge for all students studying in public education. This one's covered. It was incomprehensible to us that, even in Brussels, there were various bureaucratic concerns about baby shower support, but we are introducing this, and we are also ensuring that this is covered by the budget. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Fidesz-KDNP MEPs will take up all the conflicts for Hungarian families either in the migration battles or elsewhere. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-24	Thank you very much. Mr Csaba Hende, representative of Fidesz, Vice-President of the Parliament, applied for a pre-meeting address entitled "On Current Affairs." Mr. Vice President, please.
u2019-06-12-25	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Next year's budget will be a budget for tax cuts. By 2020, the government plans to reduce the tax burden of HUF 500 billion on the basis of the economic protection action plan. Since 2010, Hungarian tax policy measures have continuously reduced the rate of tax deduction. For this reason, Hungary has been reducing the largest tax reduction in the European Union and the tax burden on GDP for many years. Dear House, The government protects the results of the Hungarian economy so far. This is the aim of next year's budget and the economic protection agenda. Next year's budget and action plan will make the Hungarian economy more impact-resistant, strengthen the situation of Hungarian families, protect the actors of the Hungarian economy. With tax reductions, tax and structural measures, it significantly improves the development potential of Hungarian businesses. In the next three years, HUF 167.5 billion will be spent on technological development and market access for businesses. This will be HUF 90 billion in non-refundable funding. For R &amp; D and innovation, we will spend HUF 32 billion more next year, or HUF 162 billion, instead of HUF 130 billion this year. Dear Parliament, The government wants to support promising businesses that were able to increase their turnover by 20 percent per year between 2014 and 17 and increased their exports by 50 percent per year in subsequent years. According to the plans, Hungarian universities will be transformed in such a way that knowledge there will help Hungarian businesses, and the problems of global value chains and multinationals will also appear in research. The idea is that around eight Hungarian universities, eight science parks will be created. The economic protection action plan will contribute to further employment growth. From 13+1, this is the goal of reducing the tax burden on work, and it is already possible for businesses to build hotels with state aid. As a result of the outstanding increase in real wages, the rate of the social contribution tax will be reduced by 2 percentage points from 19.5 percent to 17.5 percent as of 1 July 2019. With this measure, the government will leave HUF 144 billion this year and HUF 156 billion for the Hungarian businesses next year. Employers can use additional resources to raise wages and finance improvements. Dear Parliament, While Fidesz's support for families with children is the first, the Gyurcsánys, who lead the opposition, would only take me away from families with children. [[Noise, constant interruptions from DK's ranks.]] When the decision had to be made, they never joined the Hungarian families. The same Gyurcsánys are now in charge of the opposition, who have already destroyed the country once and made it difficult for Hungarian families to make a living. During their government, tax increases and restrictions were imposed on children. The first thing they did was to take away the family tax relief for one and two children. They've wiped out the home-building funds. They took the three-year-old child from the mothers. They closed cradles, kindergartens, schools. They threaten not only the support of families with children, but also the results of the Hungarian economy. The Gyurcsánys want to give Brussels and foreign economic interests more and more power. That's what they did during their government. At the time of their government, Hungary lost its economic self-determination completely, weakened financially and economically, the IMF and Brussels dictated to the country, and foreign economic interests prevaild. [[10.10]] Meanwhile, the Hungarian people worked for humiliating wages and suffered austerity. [[Gergely Harvester: But not now!]] During the Gyurcsány era, a million people were unemployed. With their high taxes, their misguided economic policies, they destroyed the economy. Because of incompetence and corruption, it has not been a year to keep the budget deficit going. They've doubled the government debt, don't forget that. Dear Parliament, If I could, they would do the same thing now, because they do not represent the interests of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-26	Mr. Sándor Bodó, Secretary of State, reflects. Here.
u2019-06-12-27	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Vice President, fellow Members. Thank you very much for your contribution to the budget submitted. Indeed, the most important elements relate to the growth of the economy and the support of Hungarian families. In this situation, indicators are becoming more and more favourable. Before I get to the details of this, I think it is important to note, among the walls of this House, that the expected adoption of the budget, which will take place within a few weeks, is a good opportunity for economic operators, businesses, families and individuals to be able to formulate their plans and development ideas for the following year. As I mentioned, the most important indicator is the economic growth of the past period, which, fortunately, is not an orphan child, since it is one of the most important indicators in the context of many positive indicators. This year's aspect of the budget may be closely linked to the fact that the annual performance of the Hungarian economy increased by 5.3 percent in the first quarter, which is, we can safely say, a record value, but in this situation it is an important benchmark that is also a very positive indicator on the average of the European Union. The government is therefore committed to protecting this economic performance and to protecting these results, and will also take measures in the budget that will ensure this in the future. This, of course, has a history, since in November 2016, the wage agreement concluded at the government's initiative is such a very structural fund, as wages have increased in several stages in Hungary, minimum wages, guaranteed minimum wage and wage recommendations have been formulated on several occasions. As a result of the agreement, the lowest company tax of 9 per cent was established in the European Union for companies. It is also a very positive figure that taxes have decreased most in Hungary, and the tax burden on GDP has decreased from 39.3 per cent in 2016 to 38.4 per cent in 2017. So these are the former funds that we can build on now. It is quite clear that Hungarian businesses are the cornerstones of the Hungarian economy, so when we talk about the success of the country, the success of the economy, we need to see how Hungarian businesses perform and how we can help them in the next period. A very important element of this is the 13+1 measure of the Economic Protection Action Plan. This could be a long discussion of each point, but I would like to highlight some of it. As part of the economic protection action plan, the tax on small businesses is reduced from 13 to 12 percent, which could affect 40,000 domestic businesses. The tax on labour is also falling further, with the social contribution tax falling from 19.5 per cent to 17.5 per cent as of 1 July 2019. Thanks to the latter, HUF 144 billion will remain in 2019 and HUF 156 billion in 2020 will remain in Hungarian companies. In addition, tax mergers lead to a substantial reduction in the administrative costs of companies, providing more resources for their productive activities, and leaving the government with approximately HUF 150-170 billion in the economy, which is likely to help businesses again temporarily. It is very important how and how many people work in Hungary, and we must do everything we can to improve this indicator. The employment rate is 70 percent, which is also a significant increase. The other extreme is that the unemployment rate is now 3.5 percent nationwide. To this end, there is obviously a great deal to be done; the creation of mobility is a very important element in increasing employment, but of course we must not forget training, reform of employment classes. It can also be a significant development due to the government's spending more on training. I am pleased to report that the budget presented will have more than HUF 32 billion available. I believe that the economy can continue to perform well only with properly trained professionals. The Hungarian government is therefore still committed to the economic success achieved as a result of the efforts of the workers, to the preservation, enhancement and protection of the Hungarian families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-28	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. A joint debate on the reduction of the rate of social contribution tax and the amendment of other related laws follows in an exceptional procedure. The government referral is T/6441. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Mihály Varga, Minister for Finance.
u2019-06-12-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian economy grew by 5.3 percent in the first quarter of this year, which was the highest growth among the European Union's Member States. This growth is three times higher than the average of the European Union, but it is clear that the eurozone, our most important export markets, the growth of the German economy has become slower and slower in recent quarters. This is also anticipated by the international institutions that have published scenarios for growth in Europe and the world economy, OECD, EBRD or other institutions. In this respect, it is therefore important that the Hungarian economy can protect the results it has achieved in recent years. One of our important achievements is job creation. Hungary took a significant step towards increasing employment between 2010 and 2019, the unemployment rate fell to 3.5 percent and the employment rate rose to 70 percent. This means that nearly 800,000 people work more than in 2010. The government is committed to reducing the burden of employment, together with tax reductions and employment expansion. We have taken and will continue to take a number of measures to achieve this goal. One of these steps is the most important tax on employers, the reduction of the social contribution tax, which is included in the bill before you. I would also like to mention here that this proposal cannot be interpreted in itself, as it fits into the economic protection action plan that the government has adopted. This economic protection action plan seeks to boost growth and reduce tax burdens, in addition to providing additional support to areas with which economic growth can be sustained in the future, as far as possible. To this end, we will discuss the reduction of the small business tax, the abolition of the tax advance, the reduction of the tax on tourism accommodation tax in the framework of the bill to be negotiated later, but also the development tax reduction, which includes that this tax reduction will not only apply to developments above HUF 500 million, but also to small businesses or medium-sized entrepreneurs, at a HUF 50 million and HUF 100 million ceiling. But such a measure will be the development of lending by increasing the guarantee. We will launch an irrigation programme, with 17 billion HUF per year between 2020 and 2030 we support the development of irrigation. And the amount for research and development will be significantly increased by HUF 32 billion next year. [[10.20]] Last but not least, if I have already gone through these points, let me also mention that last week the highly preferential and impressive Hungarian sovereign debt, which, in the first week, had reached a record: Hungarian households bought this type of sovereign debt for HUF 529 billion, the Hungarian population. I think it is also important that Hungarian families also grow [[Gergely Arató: The Mafia Family!]] and they should also benefit from the income of debt management. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, tax policy has focused on reducing the tax and administrative burden on labour and businesses and on simplifying the tax system. Based on an agreement concluded by the Competition and Government Permanent Consultation Forum in November 2016, this agreement with employers and employees has already started to reduce the rate of social contribution tax in recent years. As a result, it was able to reduce the tax burden from 27 per cent to 22 per cent from 1 January 2017 and then to 19,5 per cent from 1 January 2018. According to the agreement, the rate of the tax will be reduced by further periods from 2019 onwards, in total four times each time by 2 percentage points, provided the conditions of the agreement are met. The first reduction of 2 percentage points, i.e. from 19.5 per cent to 17.5 per cent, has now become timely. The increase in real wages in the competitive sector reached 8.1 percent in the first quarter of 2018 compared to the first quarter of 2018, so it is well above the 6 percent increase in the agreement. This is a good thing, and the government welcomes and supports it, and we believe that, in parallel to economic growth, wages and earnings must also increase. By the way, I would add that this agreement concluded in 2016 has been able to generate an additional economic growth of between 1 and 1.5 per cent per year in recent years. Dear House, In addition, in recent years, benefits from employers' social contributions tax have been constantly increased and the upper limit for applying the benefits has increased from HUF 100 thousand to the minimum wage. Let me stress that further measures have been taken to introduce simplified forms of taxation in order to reduce the tax burden on businesses. Such is the specific tax on small-tax companies, the kata, which has been chosen by more than 300 thousand companies, and the small-scale tax on large enterprises, or in the shorter name of the kiva. With the adoption of the bill before you, the government will leave no less than HUF 450 billion in business this year and next year. This amount will be HUF 144 billion in 2019 and HUF 310 billion in 2020. It is also important to stress that after the implementation of the six-year wage agreement, the Hungarian tax wedge, i.e. the total tax burden on wages, will fall below the level of regional competitors. This was an old request for both employers' and workers' organisations. We have collected a significant competitive disadvantage in this respect by 2010, we have started working on this from 2010, and this six-year wage agreement also serves this purpose. As far as the benefits from the social contribution tax are concerned: the rate of the benefit varies in line with the reduction in the tax rate, so employers can benefit from 17.5 per cent in the case of full exemption from the social contribution tax, while, in the case of the 50 per cent benefit, a discount of 50 per cent of the tax rate will be applied up to the minimum wage. As a result, labour market-disadvantaged workers can be regarded as such by those who enter the labour market, by women who have three or more children and by women who enter the labour market, and by the government who continue to offer benefits for the employment of unskilled workers. Dear House, The proposal also amends the provisions of the Personal Income Tax Act in the light of the internal context of the tax system. As is known, where the payment of the social contribution tax is an obligation of the individual himself and is not entitled to account for the costs, his income shall be determined as 84 per cent of the income determined. In the context of the reduction of the tax rate, these individuals should determine their taxable income as 85 percent of the calculated income. Moreover, the rules on the specific tax on small-tax enterprises are being amended to a positive degree. In addition to an unchanged obligation to pay taxes, the cash benefits used by the full-time taxpayer increase, for example, the fund of ged or sick money. Thanks to this, the supply fund will increase from HUF 94 400 to HUF 98 100, while from HUF 158 400 to HUF 164 000 when paying the higher-value HUF 75 thousand item tax. In the context of the reduction of the rate of the social contribution tax, the simplified public contribution, or shorter term the rules of the echo will also be amended, according to which the echo charged to the paying agent will be reduced from 19.5 per cent to 17.5 per cent. Ladies and gentlemen, The reduction of the social contribution tax therefore results in a number of positive changes for employers and workers as well as a tax reduction for other tax types. I thank you, therefore, for your support yesterday, so that we can begin the debate on this bill in an exceptional procedure. This, as I said, was also due to the fact that this bill could be tabled after the data of the first quarter, and if we want it to come into force on 1 July, then only in this form can it be adopted by the end of June. I therefore call on my fellow Members to discuss and accept the bill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-30	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented within a maximum period of 15 minutes. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Herczeg, rapporteur of the Legislative Committee. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 11 June 2019, the Legislative Committee discussed yesterday the T/6441 on the reduction of social contribution tax and the amendment of other related laws. Bill No. 1. The Committee accepted the summary report and I am pleased to say that it adopted it unanimously. Dear Parliament, In 2010, the Fidesz-KDNP Party Association took over the country on the brink of a gap. Thanks to cooperation with employers and employees, especially citizens and businesses, as well as persistent systematic economic development, the country is now on a stable footing, as the Hungarian economy is growing more than three times faster than the EU average for growth, the level of public debt has been declining for eight years, employment is increasing, unemployment is falling, while the number of inactive people is decreasing, and many analysts believe that the Hungarian economy has approached the level of total employment in a technical sense, although there are, of course, regional differences, and there are social groups, especially disadvantaged, that can be more involved in the world of work. It is also an important fact that wages are also rising, for example, by more than 11 per cent last year, and the increase is likely to remain around 10 per cent this year as well. The Hungarian economy is doing outstandingly well during the past period of the year, as the Minister of Finance said in his exposé, so the Government of Hungary considers it important to protect the results of the Hungarian economy by reducing taxes and encouraging employment, and to put employers in a better position. The results listed must therefore be protected, as the growth prospects of both the euro zone and the world economy can be seen as signs of slowdown. [[10.30]] In response, the government adopted an economic protection action plan, which we expect to preserve the results achieved. As part of this comprehensive action plan, the bill before us has been presented, which reduces the rate of social contribution tax from 19.5 per cent to 17.5 per cent as of 1 July 2019. It is perhaps worth mentioning in the debate on this proposal that, as of 1 January 2019, the social contribution tax rules have also changed in a positive direction for taxpayers. The current amendment, the 2 percentage points decrease before us, is expected to leave HUF 144 billion in 2019 and HUF 156 billion in 2020 for Hungarian businesses, which would have to be paid into the state register without this change. Ladies and gentlemen, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask you to support this proposal in a similar manner to that of the Legislative Committee. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-12-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent Members have 8 minutes in total. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position within a maximum 15-minute time frame, which is an opportunity and not an obligation. I give the floor first to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Member Attila Barcza. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-33	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, T/6441 on the reduction of the rate of social contribution tax and on the amendment of other related laws. The bill contains relevant provisions for both Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses. The Hungarian economy, the work of Hungarian people and businesses, as well as the right economic policy, are making economic growth better than ever in terms of increasing employment, reducing unemployment and raising wages.Since 2010, the number of employees has increased by around 800 thousand in Hungary and the government intends to continue to create jobs. In line with this, labour taxes will be further reduced. The rate of the social contribution tax shall be reduced from 19.5 per cent to 17.5 per cent from 1 July 2019. The 2 percentage points reduction leaves HUF 144 billion in 2019 and HUF 156 billion in 2020. Dear House, An important element of the economic protection action plan announced by the Government is the reduction of the social contribution tax by 2 percentage points from 1 July. The tax rate has continued to decrease in recent years, and so far it has decreased from 27 per cent to 19,5 per cent. With the current reduction of 2 percentage points, employers can use additional resources to raise wages and finance development, thus increasing businesses further. Hungary's Government considers it important to protect the results of the Hungarian economy by reducing taxes and encouraging employment, to which the bill before us also contributes. I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the motion tabled, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-12-34	Thank you very much. Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpat, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2019-06-12-35	Mr President, Dear House, An economist is receptive to a proposal that lies before us. Allow me to make one personal remark. I'm not always strong. The production report or production meeting that we had to listen to here today, and the reading of practically 20 times the same sheet of paper, I think it is unworthy of both the proposal before us and of the common target mass that we should otherwise achieve. Without such quality data readings, analysis links, they would bring together a chance for the nebula in high school. I'm trying to get over this. I am pleased that, in the person of Minister, there is a specialist who can answer professional questions, and, if he intends, he will certainly do so now. But I have to say, what we've been listening to here today is true in certain elements, twisted in many of its elements, and in many of its elements it doesn't meet with reality. That's why it's worth talking to us about the economic protection action plan, what's ahead of us. But since your introduction is a lie, it is very difficult for the opposition representative to maintain his restraint. I can say all of this because what lies before us, let's say, in terms of socho reduction, is not a novum, it has not just been invented by the Government of Hungary as a kind of blessing, in the knowledge of the newly published economic data. It depends on a six-year wage agreement. This is an already negotiated and, by the way, the shift in implementation of the thing originally scheduled for last year's budget cycle. So, if you like, due to incorrect budget planning, we can talk about a late, although positive, measure that could not explain the economic impact of the financial year behind us, it has caused ergo damage to the Hungarian economy, and we are very confident that now it will be able to express this delayed effect, if not with braked foam, but fully. And we can also see, once again, that we have to argue about the proposal, but the reasons for it are many times said by a professional who has given himself something to disprove. It is said many times that there have been 800,000 additional jobs in the Hungarian economy since 2010. It's just not true what they say. They fake, distort, rape statistics with three factors. The first is the inclusion of public workers in the labour market on the same line as anyone else. There's nothing wrong with that, because I support public employment, support its target system, even support the tool system assigned to it. I do not support the fact that people who should be traced back to the primary labour market in a much greater proportion than you have tried to do have done, in a statistical line, with student workers, together with emigrated Hungarians who have not delivered their property cards here and have not done all the necessary administrative procedures and steps, count here. Only in respect of student workers who are reported for this plus 800,000, the statistics are tens of thousands different from reality. In terms of the number of people employed, the difference between reality and fidesz statistics is one hundred thousand. In the same way, with regard to emigrated Hungarians, when talking about migration balances, we need to conduct this debate. So when you say this crazy, sci-fi thing, that more Hungarians come home from abroad than many emigrants wish it were true, two things are forgotten. Our cross-border Hungarian brothers are included in the statistics. On the basis of the principle of prosperity in the homeland, we are all the happiest if our brothers who have been cut across the border, who have not chosen this path, but who are forced to do so, are able to thrive where the good Lord intended them, and it can only be a forced solution to, say, the present Hungary. They should be supported in that, too. But to say that they are Hungarians who have returned from abroad, at least it is insolence on the part of the government. And in the emigration balance, only the statistics you refer to include those who have handed in the property card, who have eliminated their presence here. But, fellow Members, put your hands on your hearts, be honest, not to me, to yourself: how many Hungarian foreign exchange credit victims are working in a slaughterhouse in Benelux and paying their previous foreign currency loan from their higher salary there, which may now be a HUF loan, but its conditions are equally unfavourable? These people don't stop living here. They're coming home for the holidays and their families anyway. If applicable, the social security contributions of a few thousand HUF per month will be paid here. So they're not included in your statistics as emigrants. But these people also keep in touch with their elderly family members on Skype, the child is born very often outside, it socializes outside, and the Hungarian country can lose not only countless taxpayers in the future, because these people are not barcodes, but also the masses of honest patriots. So the statistics you refer to are not the real picture. And in order to bomb your claims, in terms of labour market statistics, they report to the employees who are doing at least an hour's productive work in these areas every month. However, do not allow yourself the luxury of counting at least an hour a month or a week among small entrepreneurs or fellow micro-enterprises who carry this country on their backs with their taxes. It should also be seen that when corporate tax revenues are viewed and a very small line is found compared to what should be shown in the event of public burdens, because the multinationals do not actually pay taxes in Hungary or do not pay enough, they see that these people actually carry the country on their backs. [[10.40]] When you see a huge array of VAT payments in the budget, the huge amount of money that the world champion pays with 27 percent VAT is Hungarian, you still have to think about these people who carry the country on their backs. So all Jobbik's amendments focus on helping active workers, people who actually carry this country on their backs, to provide a more favourable climate. This also applies, of course, to a person who has been decency in the work. But the statistical distortion that has arisen here is quite amazing to me, and since it is referred to the same thing for the 20th time, at least for the sake of record and history, I wanted to put it right, so that followers of later ages could not say that there was no one who said that it was simply a trumped-up lie. And the biggest problem with that is that we could argue and argue with me about the real situation and its possibilities for repair, we would need very long, constructive debates in this area, but such an introduction precludes that. I welcome the increase in GDP, and also the fact that we managed to put impressive data on the table from a very low base, but in a European comparison. But how would these impressive figures compare the painters of the real picture? If you compare it to the data of the Hungarian national economy. Why doesn't anyone talk about GNP? Why doesn't anyone make the distinction that if we were to deduct the performance of foreign companies working in Hungary from this whole set, we would add a small percentage, which is the performance and success of Hungarian companies abroad, then what would the picture be like? What is the Hungarian economy capable of standing on its own feet? Or have you already accepted colonial status, that we're a assembly plant? That it depends on the brochures and the successes of all Western car manufacturers of GDP? Did they accept that? Because if not, we would also like to see data on the Hungarian national economy that demonstrate our own strength, where we are, especially the performance of the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises sector in recent years. After all, the GDP figures that are brought here reflect the performance of the foreign multi-networks that work here, even without the intention of bearing public burdens, since they should only remember the research of Globopolis, that the same top 11-12 multi-company that operates in the Czech Republic and Hungary, takes a tax burden of less than 1 per cent in Hungary, taking into account all the burdens, and taking the profits out of Hungary, they are typically able to take a tax rate of 19 to 20 per cent in the Czech Republic. How is that, fellow Members? What kind of climate have you developed? Because they can point back to the period of the balliberal economic carpet bombing, and we agree that there is no debate between us, but since then nine years have passed, you have concluded strategic agreements with these multi-company companies, they may not be included in the intention of catching up on Hungarian wages, at least in a way that fits productivity opportunities, because our productivity does not increase explosively, but still faster than wages from a very low base. And if you look at the Hungarian wages in euro, you will see that we are among the last three in terms of both the increase and the departure from the base over the last decade, and you have not been able to produce an explosive result at regional level. So this certificate is not exemplary at all, they have no reason to shine the situation at this level. I wanted to say a few more words about unemployment figures. I find it refreshing, the 3.5 percent is once again impressive. My problem here is that the amazing split situation within the country you simply do not deal with, that in Szabolcs this indicator is above 8 percent in certain regions. Nor are they concerned about the fact that there are 600 thousand of our countrymen in Hungary who are forced into the black economy or on the brink of the grey economy, and must earn their daily bread without being able to do it under legal conditions or very difficult to do it. And what do you do about settling the fate of these people? In the economic protection action plan, they bring here the plan to build the workers' shelters, your success project, which has so far been applied for by local governments, and they bring in countless foreign workers to facilitate the mass import of foreign workers. You defend yourself by doing this legally, and I could even agree with you that this is happening on a legal base, because you have made the necessary laws. In 2017, a government decree was issued to enable this tendering system to be powered up, the rotation of the foreign workforce, and these applications are now extended to the entrepreneurial sphere. For me alone, Mr Rétvári, Secretary of State, talks about resources for the development of health care, hundreds of billions, while I see with my own eyes that the Árpád hospital has been closed in Újpesten, and it will certainly become a worker's hostel for foreign workers, instead of contributing to the health protection of Hungarian people. So what you're saying doesn't come across the space of reality. And they are talking about improvements, but what we see is that in sectors affected by labour shortages, the market produces that not-so-high wage increase, but it must be acknowledged that there is a 10% neighbourhood. Once again, it's easier to climb from a very low base, but you have to admit that. However, I do not see the government's performance behind it, and I see that the sectors affected by labour shortages are the first to flow out abroad. You're not doing anything. There is a shortage of labour, the entrepreneurship sector is forced to increase wages, which is not, by the way, a disaster, but a favourable climate for businesses, so that they can produce the background of the increase in wages with productivity. Here in the party conference report, you will perform this minimum wage increase as your own success, which, once again, I acknowledge, so there should be no debate between us, and after that, leaving workers will not be lured back by motivations, the inactive people here, if any, but can be mobilised in villages, they will not start anything, they will not work out programs for them, but they will organize the alien workers with their mass. And here today, a secretary of state told me that he thinks all this is happening exclusively in deficit areas. Now, let's get into this for a minute. I'm not gonna keep your attention any longer. How does a list of deficit areas come into being? Who's to decide? Here you, Fidesz MEPs, are examining the Hungarian national economy, where are the few workers' hands, where is the shortage? It can be seen from the expozee that you have not done this work; and neither are you opposition representatives, because that is not your job. It is quite simply the case that large companies that are beneficiaries of labour imports, which otherwise receive infrastructure subsidies, job creation grants, can steal profits from Hungary without tax, and they make announcements, so they indicate sectors where they believe there is a shortage of labour. This is essentially not controlled by a state agency, it accepts this announcement, and the mass imports of labour into these sectors can start from now on. Originally, only with 90-day licenses, a sort of rotation system. The fact is that since the 2017 regulation and now, thanks to the economic protection action plan, the number of labour imports is well over 100,000 workers brought here from abroad. Many people from countries outside the EEA, so not just Ukrainian workers, in the Hungarian countryside the number of workers coming from India and working in agriculture has increased massively in recent years. And, well, there's something natural about it, although I don't like it, but if we Hungarians leave our own countryside to waste our own agriculture, then, yes, after a vacuum effect, aliens will arrive who fill these places. This is exactly what I'm fighting against, so that Hungarian reproduction can fill the entire Carpathian Basin again. And I expect you to give us substantive answers to our professional proposals for this, because without it, Hungary cannot be pulled out of the pothole it is in. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik. It's a rare round of applause from the dialogue benches.]]
u2019-06-12-36	Thank you very much. Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, lead speaker at KDNP, is the next speaker. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Thank you very much for the proposal and the expo. We must say that the Fidesz-KDNP government has been the government of tax reductions since 2010, the last nine years and the current proposal reflect this. Just as next year's budget will be the budget for tax cuts, the government plans to reduce the tax burden by HUF 500 billion by 2020. By the way, we are also top riders in the European Union, as we have had the most reduced tax burden in recent years. This required the turn of economic policy and attitude that took place in 2010, while the socialist-balliberal government, led by Gyurcsány, hit workers, families raising children with tax increases and restrictions, this government placed tax cuts and families first in order to help the Hungarian economy with job creation, debt reduction, tax reduction and various economic recovery programmes. [[10.50]] As a result, we can now stand here and talk about this bill. My fellow Member, Mr Jobbikos, said what kind of production report and what kind of introduction he had said either Minister or fellow Members, while his introduction lasted 15 minutes because he could not say a word about the law. At the same time, he said that all statistics are lies, all statistics are distorted, all statistics are not true. That was 15 minutes ago for my fellow Member. While we can remember that not so long ago, a year or two ago, Jobbik was campaigning with a tax lifting program, the pay union. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not your fault that you don't understand!]] He put a program on his flag that would inevitably have resulted in tax increases if the Hungarians had asked for this program. But the Hungarian people didn't ask for this program, so thank God it didn't turn out to be anything, because the Hungarian people voted for the tax reduction and not for the tax increase. My fellow Member, in 2016, three years ago, we had a 27-percent social contribution tax, and that's where we came from, a huge achievement you don't acknowledge. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You didn't listen again! The problem is you're not listening.]] because it says that statistics are subject to various counterfeitings. As we consider the 800 000 new jobs, which you also called a distortion, to be a huge achievement, as well as economic growth in the first place in the European Union. We consider the economic action we have just announced to be very important, and it is very important that we protect the results achieved by the Hungarian economy. This is what the economic protection action serves, and this is what next year's budget will do, as tax cuts will further improve the development opportunities of Hungarian businesses, as next year's budget and action plan will make the Hungarian economy more impact-resistant in the macro-financial context, and will strengthen the situation of Hungarian families, the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises, tax cuts and structural measures will bring about bureaucracy reduction and facilitation. The first year in 2020 could be when only tax reductions, tax mergers and tax management take place. I think that this is a historic moment, and we should all be happy about it, and we should all contribute to that, even with our votes. It is very important that we also strengthen the competitiveness of SMEs, and it is therefore welcome that, as usual, the reduction of the social contribution tax is accompanied by a reduction of the small enterprise tax. This is no different now, as the kiva will also decrease by 1 percentage point. However, let us remember what tax policy and economic policy looked like before 2010, because that Ferenc Gyurcsány is now the leader of the opposition and is driving the other opposition parties under its control. [[Noise in DK's ranks.]] [[Noise in DK's ranks.]] who has already destroyed the Hungarian economy, has also destroyed Hungarian families and Hungary. Gyurcsányék taxed Hungarian businesses to death, and they never represented the interests of the Hungarian economy and Hungarian businesses, but always favored foreign multinationals. Let's remember that instead of the current 9 percent, 19 percent were corporate taxes and a lot of small taxes were added to companies wherever they could. There were hundreds of billions more tax burdens on Hungarian businesses and Hungarian families at the time. (Noise in DK's ranks. ) Mr. Congressman, you can yell, but you did, look at the numbers. It was under the Gyurcsány government. The tax increases have not only destroyed businesses, but have made 1 million people unemployed, jobs have been removed, and wage increases are also impossible. They took away family tax breaks, raised VAT, increased tax rates, and stopped programs like families' home-building programs or even three years ago, which would have made the situation easier for families, but they didn't care. On the other hand, Fidesz-KDNP supports tax reductions. We are here today precisely because we very much support the reduction of the current social contribution tax, because the tax on labour will be reduced, and from January the small company tax will be reduced, and several taxes will be abolished, imposed, and we will increase the tax relief for development, which I consider to be extremely important, and also that in the next two years more than HUF 160 billion will be available for small and medium-sized enterprises in terms of technological development, efficiency and innovation, which will further increase their competitiveness. Remember how impossible the Gyurcsány government put the Hungarian economy in a position to raise taxes, for example, and how tied their hands were with regard to public debt, as they managed to raise the debt from around 50 percent in 2002 to over 80 percent in 2010. I think that the Hungarian people made the right choice when they broke up with the Gyurcsányist economic policy. I think that the Hungarian people support the government of tax reductions, they support Fidesz-KDNP. We will always be the government of tax reductions, we will support tax reductions so that Hungarian businesses and families can be in a better position. That is why we support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-38	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, head speaker of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-39	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary. I am in an easy position, because from 9 a.m., virtually every door on economic policy and tax systems has been opened. Minister, he did not merely deal with this two-page bill, but he tried to give us an interpretation of why we are in an excellent and good position. Urgentness always shows design, tax or tax changes as a matter of urgency, according to the dream book, but I think we'll leave that to accountants and audit firms. We have said it many times, but I would like to record it once again, we generally believe that the sentences you are saying here from a communication point of view, that the tax reduction, the tax simplification, the reduction of the burden on businesses have been the aim of the last few years, and that there have been empty sets. To a large extent, people, not the self-employed, nor the businesses, if they think very narrowly and strictly about their own lives, that is not their number one idea. We continue to think, and we have said this every time after 2011, that the biggest problem of the social contribution is that it is a tax revenue, it is not a type of contribution income, and the problem, Minister, honourable members of the government, is that there is a very market and very low confidence index for you. With regard to the social contribution, you may seem to say today that there is a way of using it that corresponds to your name, but at any moment there may be a situation where the Prime Minister or someone decides that the revenue from the budget must be used for other, more important purposes, that this resource will serve a completely different purpose. I would like to say one more very important thing in this round, which we will be able to say several times in the next few days in relation to the budget, which can be shown in countless places. So, the real problem, Minister, is that in a very graceful period, which for the world economy, the European economy and Hungary has been a period of grace for the past eight or nine years, you have not built a modern Hungary. At a time when there was virtually no economic crisis, when the world was peaceful around us in a narrower sense, when energy prices were low, when very large amounts of external money and external resources came to the Hungarian economy, you did not spend this money trying to put education in order, trying to develop an industry that serves Hungary's long-term development, but pouring this money, a significant part of this money into concrete. What we know from history is that when a person makes such large-scale constructions, the structures he favours are not the structures of the state, but I do not want to be wrong in this regard in a very, very narrow political field. The problem is that when you look back on your first nine years after decades or more, I must say that your grandchildren will not be proud, but neither will you, if you are still alive, be proud of what you have just said, because you have not built a country that, in a critical situation, would be able to solve your own problems. I would also like to join in the contribution of my better fellow Member. I am pleased that in the explanatory statement and in the speeches so far, you have said that it is a product of a bright economic result that we can discuss briefly and very quickly here today. In fact, as a result of the six-year wage agreement in 2016, you have agreed to do so, and, Minister, let us say that you have already indicated in the last year's budget that this should come in 2019. Compared to this, we are now in June 2019, and this will enter into force on 1 July, so with the introduction of this, it has been delayed for six months. Of course, we certainly think that this six-year wage agreement is welcome. I just heard from you about the economic growth that this six-year wage agreement has brought. I'd like to know how that's calculated, but I'm sure there are ways to do that. [[11.00]] However, I also think we should talk about, Minister, that I believe that more than 1.5 million people are in Hungary today... but I think that the figures are bigger now, the guaranteed minimum wage is rising, more people are at minimum wage. It is clear to you that those who are on minimum wage work in a significant part in Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. For Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, the increase in social contributions of 2 percent in parallel with the increase in the minimum wage does not mean any money remaining there, but rather that there will be fewer opportunities. Once again, what you have done is leave extra money in large companies rather than in small and medium-sized enterprises, and in particular it does not create any extra opportunities for workers. So what I can tell you is that this 2 percent decrease does not mean a significant loss of revenue for the government, as the minimum wage increases at the same time. You spoke of 140 billion forints, Minister, and after that, I understand 300 billion. Before you, Secretary Bodo spoke, and I will tell you frankly, I remember he said a smaller number for the coming years. I remember about 200 billion, but we're not gonna argue about that. You're talking 140 billion forints. What is the guarantee that this HUF 140 billion will return to the Hungarian economy in the coming years? What is the guarantee that, where appropriate, this will create additional opportunities for workers? What are the entrepreneurs going to do with this which means he left 140 billion forints behind? Consider, too, what I said earlier, that this is likely to increase in a significant part the budget of multinational companies. How much of this money do you think will help the Hungarian economy and Hungarian workers in any way? I would like to address it here for a very short thought, because I have heard the victory reports on the new sovereign debt for the second time today. You didn't hear it, but before the agenda, Mr Harghitai praised how excellent this was. I just want to ask you a rhetorical question. Obviously, it would be a foolish person in Hungary today, who would not, by the way, transfer his money to guaranteed sovereign debt yields over bank interest rates. My rhetorical question, Minister, is that Hungary really needs to finance public debt in a way that is higher than the market. If we are not looking at victory reports, it is actually a way of financing public debt, while today, I believe that Hungarian government debt could be financed around 3 percent of the time. Compared to that, you've chosen funding of well over five percent. Obviously, I accept that this also works as a new kind of peace loan, because we have seen that there is a strong attraction in this genre with you, as the President of the SAO has also made the suggestion of such a modern-day peace loan. My second question in this regard is what is the guarantee that in any way speculative capital will not be caught up in this kind of sovereign debt, since, from what I see, it is not forbidden in any way for foreign exchange foreign exchange residents to register this sovereign debt where appropriate. Well, I'd like to mention one thing in particular. Experts in accounting and business say that the biggest enemy of a tax system is the large number of exceptions and changes during the year. Well, here we have made the changes during the year. You are aware that this will raise amazing problems, not to mention 84-85 percent of the changes in the legal framework itself. Practically, you have to pay attention to who took out dividends, who got that income at what point in time. Summa summarum, Minister, Honourable House, we obviously believe that both because of the wage agreement and because of the tax reduction, we will support this bill in the final vote. However, I think it is very important to say that we continue to think that the single-key tax system leaves more money behind and creates fewer opportunities for people at the bottom. We thought it important to say that the otherwise extremely beautiful economic indicators, which clearly predict that they will remain this way, are a little risky on the basis of the first quarter. The government's estimate is also 3.9 percent, not more than 5 percent growth, and even the National Bank itself, as I understand it, takes this kind of 3.9 percent increase to 3.5 percent. But, overall, let me conclude that you have come up with a competitiveness and economic protection programme in the past. This is a programme that has not matured, has not been consulted in any way with the profession, has not been calculated, has not been established. It does not consider such serious effects as the rate of falling external aid. Think of the European Union's election fiasco, which, of course, you will certainly experience as a victory. It can be said that, in view of all this, this is not a market-driven economic defence and competitiveness programme, but rather a state-driven programme. What I would like to say is that it does not appear at all that you are committed to improving health care, that you do not seem to be committed to putting the issue of education in order to change the state's involvement in any way. In my view, this is nothing more than tuning people into the crisis in this country, the crisis in the world, and the impact of this crisis will be significantly higher or significantly greater than what you or the people think now. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-40	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Arató, lead speaker of the Democratic Coalition, please.
u2019-06-12-41	Thank you very much. As with the government's tax reduction plans in general, we can say that, at least for those that are at least burdened by work, too little and too late. The burden that is linked to work remains extremely high. At the same time, however, the Government will exceptionally respect an agreement with employees and employers at the end of 2016. This is so rare that, on the one hand, they speak to these actors and, on the other hand, the agreement with them is respected that we want to support this agreement only for pedagogical reasons. We would like the country to return slowly and, of course, not under your governance, this social reconciliation will be real and the institutional system of social dialogue. So we support this kind of proposal. At the same time, we must draw attention to the fact that when the Minister for Finance talks about what a wonderful change this will bring, this will be a polish. This relatively insignificant change dwarfs, on the one hand, compared to the changes that put money in big companies' pockets. This was, in the first place, the corporate tax reduction, which you are now keenly defending in Parliament. In order for large companies to make profits free of tax and for multinationals to be exempt from tax with very low taxes, you continue to be enthusiastic about this. They are the real winners of your tax reduction, the others, the smaller businesses, especially the workers, the working people, have little or no access to your tax reduction programme. After all, there is no reduction in the record high VAT that is most repressed by people's pockets, no reduction in low incomes and low income pensions and health contributions. I must add that not so long ago, with the taxation of the cafeteria, you have greatly increased the tax burden paid by the workers. So you don't give workers tax incentives, you give companies tax incentives. This proposal is so much better than the usual proposals that at least small and medium-sized enterprises are involved, not just large companies, as is usually the case. At the same time, we expect employers to enforce this tax reduction in line with the original aim of the agreement, so that they can raise wages from this, and therefore provide coverage for wage increases. The point of the agreement was to reduce this contribution by the government and Parliament in order to make it a wage increase for workers. So we fully support the trade union demand that what is being saved by these businesses, especially by large companies, should be given to the workers, because this is what they get. [[11.10]] We also expect the government, for example, to point out to the strategic partners that it so favours, that the aim of this reduction is not to keep more profits than international corporations, but to keep more wages than working people. Finally, I would like to say that this tax reduction is very nice, but there is always another side of a tax reduction where expenditure should be reduced. We expect the government to apply this tax reduction of HUF 130 billion, which, for example, will affect the budget next year, not in health care, not in education, not in social spending, but in large investments such as propaganda, for example, oversized expenditure on defence. We will also draw attention to this in the budget, because we do not want ordinary people to pay for your tax cuts. Thus and with these comments, we can support this bill. [[Applause from the benches of DK, MSZP and LMP.]]
u2019-06-12-42	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. There are now two-minute speeches. A two-minute speech was submitted by Jobbik's representative, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-43	Mr President, Dear House, I'm glad you're still in the room with all the keynote speakers we've been able to exchange thoughts with. Indeed, 27 percent of the tax of the poor is certainly worth not only a footnote, but a separate chapter in today's debate. I would like to ask the government's intentions that, not only by selecting a product group, it is not only in a way that affects 5-7 percent of the average or typical consumer basket, but also in a much wider way, how and from what it intends to reduce. I see that the current draft budget presented gives us the opportunity and scope to do so. Of course, it is important to ensure with a monitoring system that the possible VAT reduction results in a genuine price reduction. I suggest to the Minister that this huge VAT period It's against our demographic goals. The demographic goals which suggest that Hungarian reproduction must be ensured on its own merits, however, Minister, how much these goals can be maintained and how far these goals are eroded by the facts that the tax duration of child-rearing articles throughout Europe (sic!) The highest in Hungary. Do you not think that if you do not think about a general VAT reduction, at least a reduction in the VAT duration of child-rearing items should be made from 27 to 5 percent? This would be an important gesture towards Hungarian families, which could base on the demographic goals that I believe all good Members have and believe. At the same time, we see that rhetoric here is not enough, concrete steps are needed. I do not want to go into a rental program or other discussion, we have done this several times, but I do see that the VAT duration of child-rearing articles is not only a gesture, it is not just a cosmetic nature, it is a symbolic intervention, it is a space. In this regard, not only do I ask you, but I expect your reaction. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2019-06-12-44	Thank you very much. As a normal speaker, Congressman Bence Tordai, Dialogue.
u2019-06-12-45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, The Dialogue would be pleased to see the tax burden on labour reduced if the burden on workers were indeed eased, but the fact is that this current tax reduction will reduce the burden on employers. So it's not people's salaries that are increasing, it's companies' profits that are going to increase. The idea of boosting the economy by leaving as much money as possible to businesses is a very outdated, outdated neoliberal approach that has largely failed with the 2008 global economic crisis, even if you refuse to acknowledge it. If they really wanted to boost the economy, if they wanted to support economic development, they would have to do it from the demand side. That is, if people have more money, they can spend more money, and then they don't get money to companies, the players in the economy by giving it to them, but they spend more money in the competition with these companies, and they get more income and they can develop from it. By the way, people's living standards and quality of life are improving, as Hungary may be at the forefront of GDP growth among EU Member States, but if we look at the actual consumption levels of households, how much money people have, which they can spend in the market, in shops, we see that we are under Romania and that this indicator is getting worse, we are falling apart on how much money people have. So GPD growth, believe me, is not going to be very welcome on its own. Of course, they say it's a tax reduction and it's a government tax reduction and a tax reduction budget. However, if we look at the bill in front of us, then it is the 1st bill. §2 contains a tax increase, to compensate for the tax reduction, it is certain for individuals, which will certainly raise the basis for the consolidated tax. Therefore, there is no chance that the socho reduction would appear in private individuals, while the Dialogue said earlier in the previous debate on this proposal that these socho reductions should be made on the employee side. So let's just say that this tax reduction will only benefit companies. On an annual basis, as we have learned, 310 billion forints are donated there. I would like to ask you if you could respond to opposition speeches, whether there is an impact assessment of the distribution of this to economic operators in Hungary. How much of this will be taken home by international multinational companies, how much will be taken home by NER giant companies, and how much will remain in decent Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises? We have a strong suspicion that, as in previous tax cuts, big money will be put away here by large companies, and for Hungarian SMEs this will be a minimum of relief, while the budget will fall away from serious revenues. Here is the question of how this loss of budget revenue, more than 300 billion forints per year, will be replaced. Are there gonna be cuts? No, there's not going to be restrictions, there's going to be cuts. On the one hand, the subsidies that we invest in education, health care and social care are instigated year after year. The nominal amounts remain unchanged or barely increase, while inflation is skyrocketing. This means that the money you spend on education, health care and social care is getting less and less. It is clear that in next year's budget there is still no money to raise the family allowance, no money to raise pensions to a decent standard, no money to raise the minimum retirement pension and increase the social benefits linked to it, no money to raise the home care fee for three quarters of those concerned. In fact, if there is a restriction, you will take away the possibility of a reduced holiday from our elderly or disabled fellow citizens who were able to take a vacation last year under the Elizabeth Programme. Fifty-two thousand people are taking away the possibility of a discount holiday. This is pure austerity. That's what I'm talking about. So the question is how the Hungarian people will pay the price of reducing taxes on large companies here. Because my fellow Member is right that people generally like tax cuts. On the other hand, however, they do not like it to be constrained, especially when tax cuts increase the profits of large companies, while austerity makes their lives much harder. You have chosen this policy, you have chosen a policy serving the interests of large companies rather than the interests of the people, you have chosen an extreme right-wing economic policy or, if it hurts more, a neoliberal economic policy, completely ignoring the real interest of Hungarian society. Because tax cuts are not going to make it competitive. If you look at the top riders of the international competitiveness rankings, they are not the countries operating with a very low tax rate, but the Scandinavian countries, the countries following the North European model, and Hungary should join this club. Countries that invest in people, invest in social infrastructure, maintain a high-quality education system, maintain high-quality health care, maintain a very serious social safety net, and the Dialogue says that this should be Hungary's way. And you are simply politicalising against the interests of Hungarian society by serving large companies, with this tax reduction policy, which will only push the profits of multinationals into the sky. Not to mention that pro-cyclical steps are very dangerous in an economic economy, in an emerging economic stage. There's no place to heat the economy anymore, there's no need for that. What we need right now is either to create a reserve of protection or to establish the chances of long-term growth, which again involves investing in social subsystems that serve the success of Hungarian society and the Hungarian economy in the long term. So this money should be best spent in education. [[11.20]] But that's not what you're doing. You're making cuts to reduce corporate tax a little bit. That's your policy. The Dialogue, for its part, as a left-wing party, cannot support this. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-46	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is still possible to speak within the remaining timeframe. A two-minute speech was submitted by Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-47	Thank you very much. Mr President, Bence Tordai missed the spot, the time and the recipient, whose speech should have been said. After all, what you said was absolutely true in the pre-2010 period. Your friends of principle, your comrades, the socialist government, the socialist government led by Gyurcsány, who supported multinational companies, did not care about Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. At that time inflation was skyrocketing, then the promised increases in salaries and pension increases were inflated, as Hungarian society had to suffer 7-8 and 9 percent inflation. This was all done by your comrades. And it was your Prime Minister's candidate who scared me with tax increases, and it was Gergely Christmas who scared me with tax increases. It is precisely the Fidesz-KDNP government that has reduced taxes that have kept inflation low. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes. Bence of Turda: The big corporations!]] and it is not true and it is not true, and it is not true that every year there would be no increase in resources for health and education, because they grow every year. Not only by the extent of inflation, but also to a much greater extent. It was your principle friends who removed these resources from health care and education. So you should address this speech to them and the party of Gyurcsány to the socialists. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-12-48	As a speaker asking for a normal word, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik!
u2019-06-12-49	Mr President, Dear House, In addition to the fact that we have not received answers to a number of points here, but there is also a lack of intention to respond, I would like to recommend one more aspect, at least in order to make the closing sound successful and to fill it with content. I fully support the reduction of the social contribution tax, although I would prefer it to be a pension contribution again, and the governments of this country may not, in an irresponsible situation, decide to use the funds that come in for a completely different purpose. After all, we may agree that there will be no permanent Fidesz-KDNP government in Hungary, no matter how badly the electoral system is sucked. Sooner or later, in the spirit of the cyclical nature of things, other governments of color will come. If the good Lord wants it, and Jobbik can be a part of it, then the pension fund will not be in danger, because we do not want to use the social contribution tax for other purposes. But obviously, I can't speak for others, so the best guarantee would be if it was again in a form of contribution, if you would like, with straps, if you will, only to be spent on what it is about. But we need to talk about one more question. The ageing of Hungarian society has not been mentioned in this debate, nor has it been mentioned that we are trying to protect workers and employers with a number of better proposals. So I told you that we want to create a climate so much more favourable for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that they can produce the background of the increase in wages, so we have to talk about the pension fund in the context of the ageing of Hungarian society. We didn't bring this up anyway. The projections of the Hungarian National Bank around 2010, which were published at the time, put the expected crisis vortex in the middle of the 2020s, when the sustainability of our pension system becomes questionable. Since then, this has been pushed out a few years ago, but in terms of the closing point, I would consider it important to mention the situation of the Hungarian pension fund, since many successful international alternative solutions are known, and there are different historical ways to make such a portfolio sustainable. However, he did not talk about this, either Minister or representatives of the Government of Hungary. It is therefore expected, for the sake of our future, that we should talk about our reproduction, so that we can talk about the impact of such a package on the Hungarian population processes, either through the encouragement of the national economy, but also about what our countrymen can expect in a decade's perspective, who will grow gray at work, carry this country on their backs, and then expect obvious, predictable ageing conditions. In this case, therefore, we look forward to their meaningful reactions. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-12-50	Thank you very much. Congressman Bence of Turdai, Dialogue!
u2019-06-12-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Then some specifics for my fellow Member Nacsa. The level of aid granted by individual government decisions doubled over the period after 2010 compared to the period before 2010. In addition, the support per job is almost in the range of HUF 15 million. So who supports large companies in Hungary into ruins is a matter of fact. It is also a matter of fact that you were the ones who reduced taxes on large companies to the level of taxes on small companies. So now 9 percent is the corporate tax rate, which meant a 10 percent reduction for large companies, and a one percentage point reduction for Hungarian SMEs, and let's move on, the effective tax rate for top 10 companies is 1 percent, as my fellow Member has pointed out here. So why is it that in other countries, even in Eastern and Central Europe, 20 times that much tax is paid by these international corporations? It doesn't seem important for the Fidesz government to tax these companies, it's important for the Dialogue. And we can also see how this money is missing. Since 2010, you have withdrawn more than HUF 2000 billion from Hungarian health care, and there was indeed a development in 2010 too, but you are going in the wrong direction. You have reduced GDP-related expenditure in health care, we are now 2 points below GDP, so we would have to spend more HUF 850 billion a year to reach at least the EU average in Hungarian healthcare. These problems, these restrictions, were necessary because of the policy that was favourable to you large companies. So it is possible to spend the last nine years here, but the fact is that there were quite different trends between 2002 and 2010 than after 2010. You are the ones who dropped taxes on large companies and, by the way, abolished the tax credit, which meant the relief of HUF 15,000 a month for low-income people. It was you who excluded the resources from health care, it was you who excluded the resources from education, and you who continue to serve the interests of Hungarian people, not the interests of Hungarians, but the interests of large companies. [[It's a rare round of applause from the dialogue.]]
u2019-06-12-52	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'm going to ask if there's anyone else who'd like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The consolidated debate is closed. I would like to ask the Minister, as rapporteur, if he would like to reflect on what has been said. [[For signal:]] Congressman Mihály Varga, Minister of Finance, please.
u2019-06-12-53	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the comments that led me to conclude that the majority of this House will support this proposal. I thank you, too, because it was not clear to me yesterday that those who voted against the inclusion and the exceptional procedure did so because they did not support this proposal, or had some other reason to do so. Basically, we were talking about representatives of Jobbik and Dialogue. They voted against the exceptional procedure, which would have meant that by 1 July we would not be able to implement this 2-percent tax reduction, but only later, August or perhaps from the beginning of next year. Now it is clear from Jobbik's point of view that they are in favour of this proposal. Thank you. I still can't find any interpretation points in the Dialogue. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: They don't know...]] So I don't know if they're gonna support him now. No, we'll wait for the vote, and then we'll find out. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to stress that this amendment will be tabled in a situation where the economy is growing. I wouldn't put it that way, as Gyula Molnár did, that the situation is excellent or good. I think that Hungary is in a better position than it was in 2010. We are far from talking about the fact that everything is perfect and everything is very beautiful, everything is very good, but in the last nine years Hungarian companies, Hungarian businesses and Hungarian people have achieved a performance that I can safely say that from the situation that we inherited in 2010, we have been able to maneuver ourselves into a significantly safer position. The economy is growing by 5.3 percent, and I would have wondered if, say, in 2008, such a debate would have taken place, what opposition representatives would have said about the state of the economy. Once again, I note with a low voice that this was the highest economic growth in Europe today in the first quarter. In the Czech Republic, 2.5 percent, in Slovakia 3.8 percent, so among the Visegrád Four, I think we have nothing to be ashamed of. [[11.30]] The shame was when, after 2002, we slipped back from the top to the hosts, and among the Visegrád countries we were the last in almost all respects. Fortunately, this situation has changed, and I can safely say that we have achieved significant results not only in terms of economic growth, but also in employment and job creation, which is very important to us. From this point of view, I do not feel the risk of what our fellow Member Dániel Z. Carpathian talked about. Foreign workers are limited in the Hungarian economy. The work permits issued by the government can only happen if there is no sufficiently qualified Hungarian labour force in the given area. So we are not willing to give up any investment, we do not want to postpone any development because there is no labour force available. It is possible to replace this workforce temporarily. The targeted measures with which we have issued this type of authorisation in recent years have been able to facilitate this. Once again, I would stress to the Member that, if he were here, these were licences issued for a transitional period, most of which are for two years and will expire after two years. As far as economic growth is concerned, the six-year wage agreement could significantly help the Hungarian economy to remain on the growth path. Remember, this agreement took place in autumn 2016, and in 2017 there was still an economic researcher in Hungary who predicted an increase of around 2 percent or 2-3 percent. Compared to this, an economic growth of 4.1 percent was achieved in 2017. The same effect worked last year, in 2018. Here, too, I could list a number of institutions who were pessimistic in terms of growth prospects, with an economic growth of 4.9 percent compared to this, which is not bad at all. Why is the economic protection action plan needed, and why is this 2 percentage points tax reduction an important point? If we are proud of the results we have achieved and we are pleased that 800,000 more people have jobs and jobs than in 2010, then these results are worth preserving and protecting. That's what the economic defense plan is all about. We help Hungarian businesses, help certain sectors and sectors in such a way that they can keep economic growth high and preserve these jobs. It was not by accident that the government had already announced an action plan to protect jobs in the period 2011-12, because it is important not only to create new jobs, but also to preserve existing jobs. This is at least as important a goal, and I must say that this economic protection action plan will aim to keep the number of existing jobs in one of its main directions. We are not in this area either, it is much better than it was in 2010. At the time, the unemployment rate was almost 12 percent, and now it's 3.5 percent. This 3.5 percent means that we have the fourth best result in this regard in the European Union. As regards the further proposals raised by the Hungarian State Paper Plus, the speaker of the MSZP, Mr Gyula Molnár, spoke about the expensive financing of debt. Honourable Congressman, On the one hand, let us note that debt levels are much lower today than 83 percent of gross domestic product in 2010, and now we are at 70 percent, and the next budget is also presented with a reduction in the debt ratio of 67 percent by the end of the year. So the sovereign debt that we have inherited from the past decades is an increasing burden and a lower risk for the Hungarian economy. On the other hand, the Hungarian government also strives for Hungarian families with savings to receive adequate income for those Hungarian individuals who have this type of savings and want to spend it on sovereign debt. So we do not consider it to be from the devil at all if a Hungarian family is also receiving the income that the government debt management represents. Why do we think that only foreign institutional investors or foreign banks can benefit from this? We believe that it was important, in this respect, to turn to household savings. I note in silence that when there is such a wage increase, and the cash stock of the Hungarian population is more than HUF 6,000 billion, HUF 6100 billion, it is not useless for a government to think about how to turn this amount of cash back into the economy through savings. This is what we are doing now, as a result of the first week, I can tell you that Hungarian individuals and families registered for HUF 529 billion in this type of sovereign debt. Tax issues and VAT issues. Let me note here, however, that we have been pursuing a consistent tax policy since 2010. We are saying that the resources needed for our Community expenditure, namely health, education, public security, protection of countries, are collected through consumption-type taxes and, by the way, we are reducing the amount of taxes on labour and income. This is why we have the lowest corporate tax in Europe of 9 percent, and that is why we have the third lowest rate of income tax in Europe, and we have a single 15% rate. And through consumption, it is clear that we are financing these expenditures. When a person spends his income, he obviously decides for himself what type of goods he buys and consumes and to what extent; he may save or choose to consume. So I would like to say to my fellow Members that it is an illusion that prices are determined only by the amount of VAT. Prices are determined by a lot: production costs, market conditions, competition between producers or operators. VAT is a tiny slice of this. In addition, do not forget that we are a Member State of the European Union. The European Union regulates how VAT rates can be used in its directives. I would like to quote here that the 2006/12. European Community Directive No 1 of the Council clearly states that products covered by a particular annex cannot be regulated in a preferential way and, unfortunately, the European Union was regulated in 2006 without the VAT Directive allowing Member States, for example, to reduce the VAT rates on items essential for the education of children. So when you talk about how everything is good and good from Brussels, I ask you to support the Hungarian Government in its struggle to propose, say, a reduction in the VAT rate for the products needed to raise children. I note here, however, that in recent years this key could also be used to reduce the VAT on dairy products, to reduce the VAT on chicken meat, pork or eggs. We have been able to achieve a VAT reduction on the most necessary basic foods. Ladies and gentlemen, So thank you very much for your suggestions. I trust that you will support this proposal in the vote, because this amendment will contribute to keeping the Hungarian economy on track for growth, and we can protect our achievements in recent years. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-54	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place today. Now, at 11:38 p.m., I'm ordering a recess until the decisions are made. (Recess: 11.38-12.06) President: Mr Sándor Lezsák Note: Dr. István Tiba and Dr. László György Lukács)
u2019-06-12-55	I salute my fellow Members. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats and check that your card has been placed in the voting machine. Next up, Honourable Parliament, T/6441 on the reduction of the rate of social contribution tax and the amendment of other related laws. Final vote of bill No 1. I remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6441. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 160 votes against, 1 against and 5 abstentions. It follows the T/6183 on the announcement of the extradition agreement between Hungary and the Federative Republic of Brazil. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6183. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 167 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows the T/6184 Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Lao People's Democratic Republic on the reciprocal visa waiver of their nationals holding diplomatic and service passports. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6184. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 167 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. It follows a line between the Government of Hungary and the International Telecommunications Association, T/6185 on the announcement of an agreement with the host country on the conduct, organisation and financing of the ITU Telecom World 2019 event of the International Telecommunications Association. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur was Mr T/6185/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6185. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the adjusted bill by 132 votes in favour, 12 against and 22 abstentions. It follows in London, dated 16 October 1985, T/6186 on the publication of an agreement on the use of ship-mounted INMARSAT ground stations in territorial waters and ports. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6186. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 167 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. [[12.10]] Following the publication of the Convention on the Establishment of ECO by the European Communications Office is T/6187. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is Mr T/6187/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6187. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 167 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It follows that the Convention on the Establishment of the International Mobil Satellite Organisation and its amendment for 2008 will be published in T/6189. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6189. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill with 166 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Next up is the T/5235 on the publication of the European Film Co-production Convention. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is Mr T/5235/2. has submitted an adjustment, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/5235. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 167 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Next up is the T/6188 on the publication of the Council of Europe's revised Movie Co-production Convention. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/6188. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill with 167 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Dear Parliament, We now decide on the inclusion of a series of proposals. I would like to remind you that yesterday, the Parliament has already held a hearing on these matters. I would like to ask you to include in a series of articles the amendment of certain laws by Mrs Ágnes Vadai, DK, and its fellow Members, in connection with the declaration of Europe-day as a public holiday, T/6050. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 51 votes in favour, 115 votes against and 1 abstention. I ask you, you will include in a series of articles the measures necessary for the revision of the legislation on the provision of persons with disabilities by Mr Bertalan Tóth MSZP and his fellow Members, H/5551. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution in a series of subjects by 53 votes in favour, 113 against and 1 abstention. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles by the dialogueist Mrs Szabó Timea and her fellow Members on certain amendments to the law necessary to prevent the homelessness of families with children, T/5905. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not include the bill with 54 votes in favour, 112 against and 1 abstention. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles entitled The Transparency of Public Power Practitioners and the Winners of Public Procurement, H/6135. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has not included the proposal for a resolution in a series of subjects by 53 votes to 114, with one abstention. [[12.20]] I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles by Congressman Bence Torda, Dialogue and MEP Lajos Korózs, MSZP, in order to offer a percentage of personal income tax to the trade unions, the 1996 CXXVI. T/5980. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 48 votes in favour, 113 against and 5 abstentions. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles entitled "T/4995" by Congresswoman Timea Szabó, Dialogue, on the modification of certain laws necessary to support childbearing. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 50 votes in favour, 112 against and 5 abstentions. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles entitled "T/4778" by Congressman Péter Ungár, LMP, on the amendment of certain laws for the recognition of home care as work. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not include the bill with 54 votes in favour, 112 against and 1 abstention. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles entitled T/6027, by Congressman Antal Csárdi, LMP, and his fellow Members, on amendments to the law relating to public parking. a proposal for a regulation tabled by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the bill with 53 votes in favour, 114 votes against and 1 abstention. I ask you, you will be included in a series of articles entitled H/6028 by Mrs Erzsébet Schmuck, Mrs LMP, and her fellow Members, on the establishment of and the related tasks of an emergency in the event of a change in power. A proposal for a decision has been submitted. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not include the proposal for a resolution in a series of subjects by 53 votes in favour, 113 against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions. Thank you for your work. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, We'll get back to work. A general debate on the bill to amend certain laws in the context of Members' immunity will follow until closure. Presentation submitted by Máté Kocsis, Lajos Kósa Fideszes Members and MEP Lőrinc Nacsa KDNP T/6212. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[It's constant noise.]] Before giving the floor to the rapporteur on the agenda, Mr Lajos Kósa [[The president's ringing the bell.]] I would like to ask my fellow Members to continue the discussion in the corridor so that you can begin without delay, Mr Kósa. [[The president's ringing the bell. György Szilágyi: Head of Staff, please clean up.]] Continue in the corridor so that you can begin your speech, Mr President. Thank you very much. First, therefore, I give the floor to Mr Lajos Kósa, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2019-06-12-56	Mr. President. Dear House, I have initiated amendments to certain laws relating to immunity to my fellow Members because this year's elections to the European Parliament have brought about a case that has broken the custom of 29 years ago. There was a common agreement between the parliamentary factions that, in cases where candidates for Members or Members are to be asked for their immunity, if this is a criminal offence, they will be issued. This applies to Members of Parliament, and this applies to candidates who have been officially registered by the Election Committee. It was necessary to agree that the immunity of Members should be used in a logical and practical manner by Members, not for the apology of certain criminals, for the withdrawal of justice, but for the fact that, if, obviously, in the context of defamation or other proceedings, their representatives are prosecuting them for obstructing their work, Parliament can review this. [[12.30]] In the same way, the National Election Committee for the candidate Members. So far, for 29 years, this public agreement has worked, in each case Parliament has issued such representatives either previously by the OVB or by the National Election Committee. There has now been an unprecedented case in the European Parliament elections. Csaba Czeglédy, who had already been prosecuted, has been prosecuted by the prosecution and prosecuted in court, has been registered by representatives of the Democratic Coalition on the 34th place of the list. It is, in principle, impossible for anyone from 34th place to enter the European Parliament as a Member, so obviously not with the aim of getting into the European Parliament as a candidate, but with the aim of stopping and restarting the legal proceedings that have already taken place against him, giving time to Csaba Czeglédy, who, by the way, is not a secret, the lawyer of MSZP, Ferenc Gyurcsány and the business partner of Ferencné Dobrev Klára Gyurcsány. Of the members of the National Election Committee delegated by parties and nominating organisations, the complete opposition voted to uphold Csaba Czeglédy's immunity. From the Democratic Coalition Dezső Avarkeszi, András Litresits from the MSZP, Andrea Borbély from the Jobbik, László Bodolai from the LMP, Tamás Fazekas from the Dialogue, Dániel G. Szabó from the Momentum, Gergely Gönczi from the Dog Party and Marianna Csáki from the Hungarian Movement. These were the people who prevented Csaba Czeglédy from suspending his immunity in this case, normally, as has been the case so far under customary law, from giving him the opportunity to negotiate his case in the criminal proceedings which had otherwise been brought against him. Csaba Czeglédy is well known in Hungarian political life, but not only in political life, but also as a criminal. Because it is not that some lamb born today, an innocent man, is mixed up in some strange situation, but that Czeglédy has been prosecuted twice in similar cases. Once in August 2000, the Szombathely City Public Prosecutor's Office reprimanded 11 counts of unlawful processing and the misdemeanour of two counts of private documents, or, in the first instance, in 2002 was convicted in another case, and the second instance judgment already finalized the first instance sentence aggravated, and was suspended for two years for eight months and 300,000 forints for similar acts. The grounds for the court ruling show that the judge took into account the fact that Czeglédy was falling back in these cases and made me worse. Now, in the case that Parliament has already discussed here several times, namely against the Régus and Human Operator, both Czeglédy's companies and Czeglédy's company are involved in criminal organizations, particularly high value, over HUF 6 billion in tax evasion, counterfeiting of the authentic instrument, and breach of accounting discipline, so it was prosecuted in the same crimes. It was quite a matter, because Czeglédy did not pay off hundreds of workers and students working for him from the student associations. So, who Csaba Czeglédy is, everyone could have known. Yet the complete opposition decided not to suspend Csaba Czeglédy's immunity. We do not know what Czeglédy knows or what may be revealed in court proceedings, but we do know that several people have testified against him as members of the criminal organisation, and it is also a big question where the 6 billion forints are, what was used, by the lawyer of MSZP and Ferenc Gyurcsány, Klára Dobrev's business partner, for what political purposes, what funding, because the court proceedings have been halted, had to be suspended, because the opposition members delegated to the National Election Committee, breaking the law and customary law of 29 years ago, did not suspend their immunity. We're gonna take the suspect case that it's not gonna be easy. We know that the court indictment is quite long, and it is a very complicated crime, where dozens of people are being prosecuted, and we also know that this procedure may take a year. If there has been an interim election so far in every parliamentary term, we can be sure that with the full support of the opposition, as has been achieved in the National Election Committee, then Czeglédy will start as a candidate, he will be given immunity, the court will be terminated again, and then the whole thing will start again. Of course, Czeglédy has done this before, because let us not forget that when he was in pre-trial detention, he left for the parliamentary elections as a candidate, but, unfortunately, another procedure was launched against him, and in this case, his arrest was maintained in the same way. So it's not some kind of presumption. Let us say that the opposition has saved a criminal from the proceedings of the Hungarian justice system, a repeat criminal, who is the lawyer of MSZP and Ferenc Gyurcsány in several cases, who has borrowed more than HUF 100 million from Ferenc Gyurcsány to finance his transactions. By the way, it is interestingly nuanced that the opposition, which constantly steals and corrupts, excuses a criminal. What does Csaba Czegledy know? We are very curious that if criminal proceedings begin, we will find out what the political actions in which Csaba Czeglédy participated in the conflict with his money were. In any case, in order to maintain the authority of Parliament and the elections and the public confidence in them, we cannot remain inactive, so I initiated the following amendment to the law with my fellow Members, which is to say that if someone becomes a candidate for membership, so that the Election Committee officially designates him as a candidate, but before becoming a candidate, he has already been prosecuted before the court, so there is an indictment against him, or there is a compulsory measure against him by a judge who is subject to personal leave, then he should not be subject to immunity. It is clear to the contrary that this will prevent the misuse of immunity. It is a great shame of the Hungarian democracy that, after 29 years of public agreement, the opposition is forcing Parliament to take such measures. We do this because we do not agree that the opposition hides criminals, repeaters, withdraws them from the judicial process simply because who knows what political and other relations there are that they do not want to be found out in court. The elections to the European Parliament have come to an end, but even before the opposition has thought of something similar, I hope that Parliament will accept this before the summer break, and then the immunity right cannot be abused in such a serious, unprecedented manner, and we will prevent the opposition from continuing the practice of accusing criminals of immunity. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-57	Thank you, President of the Commission, Lajos Kósa. Dear Parliament, The representative of the government has indicated his wish to speak. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-12-58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The government fully supports the rapporteur's proposal because it can prevent a misguided case-law which is harmfully emerging and hopefully will indeed cease to exist, whether in an interim election or in any form, to eliminate these abusive forms of immunity. I ask Parliament to support this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[12.40]]
u2019-06-12-59	Thank you, Secretary of State, Pál Völner. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Máté Kocsis, leader and lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-06-12-60	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, There is some understanding of the government's narrow but consensual position, since normally there should not have been a debate about this in the Hungarian Parliament, or we should have made such a presentation. If such a thing had to be done, it would be perfectly normal that it was not surrounded by some kind of debate, a real, emotional political debate that had already developed around it in the campaign. If we look at the case at a sufficient distance, it is worth thinking about or starting with the decision of the Constitutional Court which made it clear that the immunity holder is entitled to immunity in the context of his parliamentary activities, in the work of his representatives, as a member of Parliament, not as an individual. This basic approach could in itself open up a debate that has not yet taken place, but it is perhaps appropriate to recall the extent to which the immunity of candidates for Members of the European Parliament may differ or should be identical or even identical to the immunity of elected Members of Parliament with a mandate, in this case MEPs. It is also worth considering in the context of the debate that, under the provisions of the Parliamentary Act, immunity is not unlimited, in some cases it does not belong to the Member of Parliament. We may also have to think about extending this list. However, the situation is what my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa, referred to in recent minutes, that there has been an unbroken practice here in Parliament over the last 29 years of the fact that the Hungarian Parliament has always voted in favour of the suspension of the immunity of a person involved in a public prosecutor's crime, those against whom there has already been an indictment, after all, in the last 29 years. [[György Szilágyi: Except for Miklós Simon!]] Of course, in the case of private criminal charges, Parliament has a different practice, but in the case of Csaba Czeglédy, we have faced a suspicion of a clear public prosecutorial offence and even a forced action. I would also like to draw your attention, fellow Members, to the fact that by putting Csaba Czeglédy in the last place on his list, the Democratic Coalition has made it quite clear to those interested in politics and public life that he is not counting on Csaba Czeglédy getting a mandate in the European Parliament. Even according to Gyurcsány's mathematics, it couldn't have come out of a 21 delegation team from 36th place, even in a 100 percent DK victory. It is quite obvious that the rejection of the suspension of immunity in the NVB was part of a series of conscious acts that all opposition delegates voted in favour of the NVB in the first place. Strangely enough, Congressman Szilágyi, even your delegate, even though you have been speaking loudly and persistently for years about the other pledging of immunity or its abusive use, but the betterman delegate, for example, defended Csaba Czeglédy in NVB; [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Which we don't have to deal with right now. [[György Balla intervenes.]] What we would be dealing with is that this should not happen in the future, so that we cannot rely on the consideration of the opposition representatives or perhaps any member of the NVB of what has been unbroken practice in Parliament, in the Hungarian Parliament for three decades. We also need to be clear... [[György Szilágyi: What about Miklós Simon? Miklós Simon is sitting there. The president's ringing the bell.]] I have the floor, Congressman, and you will have a way to say it, this is the form of it. [[György Balla: You're protecting Gyurcsány's criminals, you've come this far!]] Ladies and gentlemen, It is also worth pointing out that by putting a person on the European Parliament electoral list of the Democratic Coalition in the last place, obviously not with the intention of obtaining a mandate, it could not have been any other purpose than to gain time from the compulsory measures in force and the prosecution process. And this time grab couldn't have been about anything other than removing evidence. There is a reasonable suspicion as to why Csaba Csaba Czeglédy would be in the 36th place on a list of which he was clearly only given the opportunity to raise the press interest and gain time. It is also good to see that my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa, has said many things, but it is also good to see and perhaps it is not exaggerating to claim that Csaba Czeglédy and the crimes related to him, and that this case, mentioned now, will continue on 24 June in the Szeged General Court, after all, the procedure in which he was involved is still above HUF 6 billion, and there is no suspicion of financing in the Hungarian political history of such a close party, such a party as MSZP and Democratic Coalition, in this order of magnitude. And it is also clear that Csaba Czeglédy is not on the list of the Democratic Coalition because he is very close to Ferenc Gyurcsány, even because he is so capable, but because he knows a great deal about what you are doing. And the immunity that brought you to buy him time is an abusive use of immunity law. That is why we are proposing that this should not happen in the future. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that some of the press statements that were made by the Democratic Coalition and I note here that it is quite strange that they are not here; if you were really interested in the campaign, Csaba Czeglédy, you were even applauded, and practically placed on your flag, as if a victim were a common criminal, then perhaps it would be appropriate to argue here in Parliament for your party president as to why the non-abuse of immunity is not a matter of... [[For the intervention of Gergely Arató, György Balla: Not even the rabbit in the hole!]] Maybe it doesn't have to be long. There's a simple case. There was an unbroken practice, this Democratic Coalition with the nomination, the other opposition parties with the delegation and instruction of the NVB members. We believe this exercise has legal protection. The Constitutional Court's decision sets clear guidelines on the nature and use of immunity, as well as the law on the status of Members and the parliamentary law. The deception of this will not be possible in the future. Sadly, there is no consensus in the Hungarian Parliament in this regard, taking into account all yelling, anger and earlier statements. From which there is no other conclusion than that the Democratic Coalition, in the next election, would try to save Csaba Czeglédy or another criminal on whom he is dependent, and that this would not happen, so we presented this. And you will not obviously support him for the reasons known. In conclusion, it may not be taken as a repeat of the case if I add to what my colleague Lajos Kósa has said in so far as it is the responsibility of a responsible parliamentary political community, it would also be the task of not only to excuse it or open up a way and opportunity for a criminal to obtain time or to dispose of evidence, but also to take an explicit stand against it. Since it is quite obvious that you will not support this amendment, because you will also prevent a future plan to excuse new criminals in new cases, I would like to draw your attention to staying away from at least any interim elections referred to by my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa, to launch a person against whom criminal proceedings are pending. It's not a legal issue, it's a moral issue, dear Democratic Coalition. It is strange to turn to you with any moral question, but I will try to do so, and I would like to draw your attention to the fact that what you have been fighting for is one thing that creates a political debate here between the ruling parties and the opposition, but it also opens up very dangerous gates for criminals who are being prosecuted or being under duress, regardless of whether they will otherwise be linked to politics. So once again, the practice is not only for the Czeglédy case, it was triggered by the Czeglédy case, but it is also for the future, and it is also for the dangerous process of which you and the delegates of the NVB have just given way here. We would like to prevent this with this bill, and although not with great hopes, I am asking you to be kind, to support me. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[12.50]]
u2019-06-12-61	Thank you very much, Mr. Máté Kocsis. I now give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-06-12-62	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There's something weird about talking about immunity in the presence of Flórian Farkas, who rightly put a lot of things on the table so that people can judge immunity the way they do. [[Lajos Korózs: Five years in prison!]] I think that everything that our colleague Kocsis or Lajos Kósa talked about, for example, by saying that it was a public agreement, which the parties kicked off, let us go back to this common understanding, and let me also quote to you about one of your current fellow Members, Miklós Simon, who, if you like, and this was the practice that had been done at the time, broke a 20-year-old unbroken practice because of it. Simon, by the way, is written in the newspaper: in 2011 the court would have sentenced Mr Simon Miklós Fidesz to a suspended prison if the Fidesz fraction had not prevented the suspension of his immunity three years earlier. Thus, by obtaining an undue economic advantage, almost budgetary fraud, I would add, is a public accusation, so feel what the consensus of the common accord is about, so the case of Simon accused of obtaining undue economic advantage has been separated from that of the other defendants, and the proceedings against him have been terminated. All the other defendants of the case were sentenced to imprisonment, but Simon was sentenced to imprisonment in 2010 and 14 too, and I would add that he was re-entered the colors of Fidesz again in 2018, and today the vice-president of the National Assembly's Defence and Police Committee does not know that this is the case yet, but our fellow Member is not here at the moment, but he was sitting here with us today. So when it comes to breaking down a 20-year-old historical tradition, it seems that Fidesz looks pretty good in that, and let me explain to you what happened in the Election Committee. What happened in the Election Committee... is that the members of the Election Committee are law enforcement, they cook out of a right, they decide out of a right they make to them. This is what the current legislation looked like. It is not for them to be blamed for the fact that, in the current legislation, for example, Fidesz did not have the guts to move ahead much sooner of what is now before us. And, Congressman, yes, the Jobbik will support this proposal because it will help us not to hide behind immunity. Jobbik's practice is unbroken. That, by the way, the Election Committee has an application of the law... [[Lajos Kósa: Why didn't you release Péter Polt Czegledy...?]] Because, fellow Member, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] There is law enforcement, there is law enforcement, there is not customary law, there they do not decide according to hearsay, but according to the letters of the written law, there they do not decide to declare anything to uncertainties, but what is written in the law, they decide to do so. So that's why they decide to do so in the Election Committee. [[Lajos Kósa intervenes.]] I believe that as a gym teacher, it's hard to understand, but read about it, because that's true. [[Intercoms. Dr. Pál Völner: You voted for it! The president's ringing the bell.]] More importantly, the current legislation needs to be changed. You can't let people be abused, it doesn't matter who, in an abusive way, shouldn't have double standards here, because that's the lesson of the current case that there is a double standard. When it comes to Fidesz people, when the governing party protects someone, they protect them when it comes to opposition, and then they scream wolf. [[György Szilágyi: Floriant!]] That's right! Indeed, there is a need to change this legislation, and yes, it must be said that Csaba Czeglédy certainly abused this right in cooperation with DK, it must be said. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You helped him!]] This can't be the case next time. That is why legislation should be adopted which the law-abiding person can correctly enforce and apply when he is in a decision-making position. If we had done this legislation sooner, if we had done what Jobbik had asked for, to reduce the immunity, to narrow down the substantive or to abolish what we proposed, then this would not have happened, then there would not be a lex Czeglédy, then that is not what we should be talking about, fellow Members. But while we're talking about who, how to protect right and what the double standard is, we could bring in a lex veres. They also remember the notary of Balmazújváros, who had also had a problem with the law before, and yet there is no legal consequence, this criminal law which the court has finally imposed on her. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Flórian Farkas, György Simonka.]] Don't be like this in Hungarian law, because you know what? We're destroying our own political nymphus, our own judgment. What do people see? They see politicians from all kinds of crimes because of double standards or because of circumvention of laws, or because they know that otherwise it's easy to play the law and then run behind their immunity. [[Lajos Kósa: Béla Kovács! You know him.]] And there's an opportunity to put an end to this now. So what our fellow Member Máté Kocsis said is that it is worth moving on, it is worth considering better, the Jobbik partner. Let us make a complex bill in which we will propose a complete rethink of immunity. Let's move forward with him. If Máté Kocsis has raised it, he certainly has the strength of his faction to cheat or push through legislation that will then enjoy consensus, and which then sends clear messages to future generations that politicians will not be protected by the right of immunity against double standards or by circumvention of laws so that it can be abused. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is very legitimate to suggest that this is a narrowing down, and that this needs to be considered. Of course, it is also legitimate that the immunity committee retains the unbroken practice of private prosecution proceedings so as not to give up the immunity of fellow Members, because in this case, it often violates freedom of expression and, in other cases, the exercise of the work of its representatives. But now we're talking public prosecutors. So I think they're banging open doors at our place, Jobbik. We do not have to fear that we are going to vote off this amendment, this proposal. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You voted for it!]] The delegates, Mr. Secretary of State, you should know this better than the representative of the Ministry of Justice, perhaps even one of his proponents, may smile for this. You know what? I want the Justice Department to come up with some kind of change if you're smiling so much. Let's get this thing straightened out together, let's not let politicians have that attitude. We must not smile at what is here and what is in Parliament's mud wrestling, but what can we say to the future generation. This is what we will be working on now, and that is why immunity needs to be reformed. But think about this: when your representatives, Lajos Kósa, talk about a public agreement, and here they have broken public agreements, think about your role in kicking off a 20-year public settlement in the case of Miklós Simon. What about Miklós Simon? Will it wait another 8 to 10 years, and then there will be extenuating circumstances in his case, when he no longer becomes a representative, and will he not be convicted of the crime in which his accomplices were convicted? I think it will be worth thinking about, though, fellow Members. In essence and in summary, I can say that the current amendment, this tightening up, will, of course, be supported by Jobbik, that our legislative position on immunity will continue to be the same, that the most restrictive of immunity is necessary, and that, if possible, the immunity law can also support a rational abolition of Jobbik. I suggest that Matthew Kocsis or the Ministry of Justice come up with such a proposal, be courageous, and we will support you in this. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-12-63	Thank you, Mr. Luke. [[Dr. László György Lu-kács: I have a press conference now, so I have to go.]] I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-06-12-64	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I am absolutely shocked because, according to the opposition yellings and the better-speaker, it turned out that you really meant the need to get a criminal out of justice, and you really meant that Csaba Czeglédy should be granted immunity. [[György Szilágyi: Did Bagi write this for you?]] My fellow Member, Jobbik, is running out of the room, but let's see what happened. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: He doesn't run out, he runs up! Intercoms from opposition lines. The president's ringing the bell.]] Let's see what happened before the National Election Committee meeting. [[Dr. István Tiba is replaced by László Földi in the notary seat.]] Csaba Czeglédy, a criminal who has a record that he is a criminal, because the court has stated that he is a criminal, he has a final statement that he is a criminal, he has a record that he is accused of skiing over six billion forints. There's been a court order... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It's gonna cost you.]] I know, Ferenc Gyurcsány's money is definitely out there somewhere, so don't yell. [[The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It's gonna cost you too!]] What happened before the Election Committee meeting? The judicial injunction was in place, the indictment was in place, and the Hungarian court asked the members of the National Election Committee to suspend Csaba Czeglédy's immunity in this case. So what happened? Ferenc Gyurcsány ordered Jobbik... [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Everyone! The whole world! The black holes are formed as Ferenc Gyurcsány says!]] Ferenc Gyurcsány instructed the LMP, Ferenc Gyurcsány instructed the Dialogue [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Ferenc Gyurcsány ordered MSZP, Ferenc Gyurcsány instructed all parties not to suspend it. [[Noise in opposition benches.]] The betterman MEPs are outrageously doing the exact same thing they were doing in this case about the fundamental law amendment. They say border protection is important to them, and then they don't vote for the fundamental law amendment. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You didn't vote for him!]] Now it is said that in the Democratic Coalition, the Czechie case is a nasty matter, but your delegate, Andrea Borbély, voted not to suspend Csaba Czeglédy's immunity. [[György Szilágyi: You voted down your own amendment eight times! Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Aren't you ashamed?! What kind of Christian Democrat are you?]] [[13.00]] Congressman, this is László György Lukács saying that they only applied the law, they voted. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: You just said that Gyurcsány ordered everyone!]] It could have been voted as the pro-government delegates vote to suspend Csaba Czeglédy's immunity, but you did not; yet you defended a common criminal. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: This is going to cost you.]] That's what happened. Admit it. [[György Szilágyi: Admit what? That Florian Wolf is a common criminal and he's sitting there? The president's ringing the bell.]] In the course of the series of proceedings in the Judicial Committee, [[György Szilágyi: He cannot account for 1.6 billion!]] the following thing happened: the Judicial Committee heard the author about the bill, the MSZP of course withdrew, did not want to know, was ashamed that it was his lawyer, and it had to be discussed, and then the representative of the Democratic Coalition there started threatening me. He threatened me just as much as Agnes Vadai is now. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: What do I threaten?]] Threatening lawsuits, threatening to file charges. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: It will be! These are facts!]] Members of one of those parties are threatening to sue us. [[Gergely Harvestó: Friendly warning.]] They're protecting a criminal. They're protecting a criminal! That is what is happening, honourable Member. [[Interviews in DK's ranks.]] And then the representative of Jobbik, Peter James, spoke with great surprise, who said that this proposal was outrageous to him. By the way, he voted in favour of the series of articles, which is part of the truth, but before he said that he thought this proposal was outrageous, that we would come to regulate such things, and that he spoke in full attack on the bill, otherwise on the side of the Gyurcsány Party, no one should doubt. [[György Szilágyi: You keep lying!]] And the truth is part of it in the case of Jobbik [[György Szilágyi: You're lying! You're not telling the truth. The president's ringing the bell.]] As regards Jobbik, what the Democratic Coalition has now done with your help in relation to Csaba Czeglédy's immunity, you did with KáGéBéla five years ago [[György Szilágyi: You're not actually telling the truth!]] You did this to Kágébéla five years ago. An unknown man...
u2019-06-12-65	Congressman Szilágyi! [[The president's ringing the bell.]] Congressman Szilágyi! [[The president's ringing again.]] Congressman Szilágyi [[To György Szilágyi Nacsa Lőrinc: The President will speak to you. György Szilágyi: I hear you, I hear you.]] A little quieter. [[Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] Go on, Congressman.
u2019-06-12-66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Five years ago, you gave a man who was also said to have unknown and completely questionable Russian relations in the European Parliament to immunity. [[György Szilágyi: Calm down! Take a deep breath. You can't talk!]] You've done this five years ago, then you've been hiding a criminal [[György Szilágyi: Don't worry so much.]] Now the Democratic Coalition is hiding a criminal, that's how simple the story is. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I don't want to say anything, but it's really gonna cost you.]] I think it is shocking in the history of democracy in Hungary that you are against such a law amendment, and you continue to insist on protecting a convicted criminal, and that you continue to grant convicted criminals immunity or escape justice. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Shame!]] It's shocking to us that you're still here. The vote on the current bill, when it goes through the parliamentary stage, will look like this: either on the side of criminals or on the side of people. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Yes?]] Who votes no to this law [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We certainly don't support you...]] he will side with the criminals, and whoever votes for this law will side with the law and the people. [[Uproar and interruptions from opposition parties.]] That's how simple the formula will be. That's how simple the formula will be in the polls in a few weeks. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai applauds. The president's ringing the bell.]] I believe you're embarrassed by that. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We are not embarrassed!]] That they were hiding a criminal. I believe... Agnes Vadai is obviously the loudest because he knows what Csaba Czeglédy is hiding or what he's trying to make disappear. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: How should I know?]] You know what secrets... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What do you suggest, Congressman? The president's ringing the bell.]] Maybe they didn't let you in. Maybe your bosses haven't even let you in yet, maybe they haven't even let you in yet. [[István Szilárd Németh: Say it calmly!]] But the fact that, at the request of the court, your delegates defended and freed this criminal from the proceedings is quite unprecedented and outrageous in the history of Hungarian democracy over the past 29 years. We therefore ask you to come to a better understanding, let go of the criminals' hands, and support this bill, which we have tabled, as will be supported by the Fidesz and KDNP fractions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-67	Thank you, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I now give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-06-12-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Obviously, one has to hold back a little after what you've been listening to from the other side with a faceless face from characters like Mr. Kósa, who kicked the foundations of this law and this institution a few years ago. But let's go over it sometime, and I think it's worth seeing with a cool head what we're talking about. I quote: immunity is a legal institution with centuries of tradition to protect the work of its representatives. As such, it provides a justification for the parliamentary law that you have created when you talk about the immunity of Members. This provision is not only published in the Parliamentary Act, but there is also a clear basis for fundamental law, since Article 4 (2) of the Fundamental Law gives Members immunity. The explanatory memorandum to this paragraph, which you also wrote, contains provisions which are relevant to this proposal, as it puts it, and I quote: Parliamentary Members are entitled to immunity as a guarantee of independence. In short, therefore, the explanations you have written are summarised so that the essence of immunity is that Members can be independent so that they can perform their duties without any influence. Moreover, this opinion is indeed in line with the generally accepted immunity report, as the essence of immunity is seen in most countries in the fact that immunity protects Members so as not to render their activities impossible by the executive authority, the government at all, or any other body under their control. In this context, the Constitutional Court has confirmed this statement in 3093/2018. In AB's decision, I quote that the immunity of Members in the European Union countries reflects a uniform regulatory concept, since the aim of the legal institution in all the countries concerned is to protect the independence of the main representative body through the person of Members. The immunity is a public guarantee of the independence of Members. The Hungarian legislation extends immunity to candidates for a reason, because in the absence of this, the candidates who have been elected could be eliminated by the executive power, the government would be able to make it even more impossible than it would otherwise be, and all the candidates who do not like them, but who have a chance, could be eliminated. In addition, the issue of immunity was also examined by the Constitutional Court in its subsequent decisions and was examined by the Court of Justice in its Decision No 34/2004. AB's decision stressed that restrictive provisions could not lead to immunity being emptied. However, you are now preparing exactly what the Constitutional Court has previously found unconstitutional: you want to empty the institution of immunity, you are working to make candidates impossible, you can prosecute them at any time or train them with your Fidesz chief prosecutor, thus preventing them from campaigning, even if, in the absence of a criminal offence, the candidate is later acquitted. However, this proposal not only undermines the rule of law and legal certainty, and is not just an eloquent example of exactly why their membership was suspended in the European People's Party, but can therefore be interpreted as a strange turn of events two days after Pentecost. I also quote, Mr Kósa: the substantiated suspicion of the crime is supported by the documents, the testimony of witnesses, the expert opinion of the Water Management Board and the testimony of another suspect without immunity; the quote is completed. You will be familiar, Mr Kósa: in 2008, the Attorney General at the time asked them to issue their fellow Member, Miklós Simon, to allow him to be prosecuted in a case where all the other defendants were convicted of fiscal fraud, to obtain an unjustified economic advantage for a criminal offence. Miklós Simon's extradition, thanks to the Fidesz fraction, was denied. His refusal was then voted by such known actors as Fidesz, and then be kind enough to say this once in a while... [[Lőrinc Nacsa will consult with Dr. János Harghitai.]] Mr. Nacha too, for a moment, if you'll listen. [[A moment's pause.]] Mr. Nacha, hello. Help me, please. Do you know Viktor Orbán? Do you know János Áder? Do you know László Fat? These are the three main public-law dignitaries of Hungary today. All three voted against the waiver of the immunity of their Fidesz fellow Member when the Attorney General applied for a public-law crime. You were the ones who kicked off everything to exonerate your fellow Member, who has been a member of the Fidesz faction ever since, and if the situation hadn't been perverse enough, all the prime defendants were sentenced to prison, and the defendants behind him were, as far as I know, suspended and sentenced to a final prison sentence, two of whom would have been your world-famous Member of Parliament, now acting Vice President of which committee? Which one? [[Interjection: immunity.]] Even the immunity, yeah, would've been even better. No! Vice President of the Defence and Police Commission. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: And how well you read! Just like that...]] Policemen, soldiers, professionals, law enforcement, detectives, secret servants should in principle be salutating a man who wasn't sent to prison because, by breaking all the rules, you completely hypocritically didn't allow the parliamentary law institution to be exercised according to unbroken practice by this Parliament. [[13.10]] And after that, you have the nerve to stand up, and with a face that doesn't blink, do you, Mr. Kósa, perform the great death here? ! The difference between the two was, as you said, pretty much known, that Csaba Czeglédy's immunity would be limited to the short period of time during which the campaign took place to test himself as a candidate. On the other hand, your fellow Member, Mr Simon, who is your vice-president on the Defence Committee, Mr Kósa, is now, I don't know, eleven years ago, sitting here in Parliament because you specifically saved him from prison by voting. [[György Szilágyi: What's the answer to that?]] You could have at least found a lead speaker, excuse me, like Mr. Bagi or Mr. Nacha... sorry, I'm confused here! I'm sorry. That wasn't intentional, really. [[István Szilárd Németh: Oh, what a weak joke!]] I'm telling you, it wasn't intentional. Calm down, Mr. Németh. I'm still practicing his name, but he's working on it for me to remember. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Quality of education!]] Mr Nacsa, who, at least personally, did not press that button at the time, and probably has no idea what happened here in this Chamber in 2008, I hope, at least, and that is why he speaks with such a large elan that he says, but Mr Kósa voted in favour of or pushed no to that proposal. Once again, the three main public-law dignitaries of this country, our President of the Republic, our Prime Minister and the current President of the Parliament, have rejected that proposal, kicking everything. So I think, ladies and gentlemen, that they would be very modest when they bring such a presentation here, and if they are obviously going to push it over with their own majority, I do not know what the point is afterwards, then at least be a little nice to look at themselves and take back a little bit of the style they are performing here, because if one dog or another dog, then you are in a very bad position to debate this bill. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-06-12-69	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-06-12-70	Dear House, Let's start with the legal part, because it's simpler and it's very clear. On the one hand, what my fellow Members have said here deserves the presumption of innocence. You can criminalize each other. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] I have an opinion on your legal affairs, even the Secretary of State, but that doesn't make you a criminal. Let us say that it is a bit too much, as you did with your fellow Member, György Simonka, but in any case it is worth at least being a little more legal in the Parliament. What is the purpose of the immunity law, my fellow Member, has just spoken, I would not discuss it any longer. The purpose of the candidate's immunity, honourable Members, is to prevent you, with your party-service prosecutorship, from removing opposition candidates from the market, as you do with love. By the way, this has not come up much in democracy before, as long as there were at least traces of this, but as the country's forestry is rapidly progressing, it seems to me that you too are in the mood to make it impossible for candidates who do not like you, with such prosecutorial and judicial procedures, to leave, because from this point on, the prosecution will be able to withdraw immunity from the candidates, even from the so enthusiastic right-on-the-rights colleagues, but this will then be their problem. So I must say to you that, while in a democracy, immunity law is not particularly important, it is in the kind of semi-dictature or even in the whole dictatorship that you are building. In this situation, immunity is the last line of defense that protects opposition politicians against power, which is why they invented it, which is why they introduced it, and that is why you want to take that right away from opposition candidates. We understand that, but obviously we won't support it. There is a particular charm, however, of the way you are talking about this case and of the characters. It is wonderful, however, when Mr Lajos Kósa is speaking on this matter, the Lajos Kósa, who, according to press reports, is a lawyer and partner in many business transactions, is Mr István Fiák, who also, according to press reports, has a substantial interest, participation and influence on the student association, which is the biggest winner of the removal of competition from the way. A prosecution and court procedure that rearranged this market is accidentally linked to people who are connected to you. What a surprise. Are we surprised at this? Well, I'm sure I'm not surprised. It is quite obvious that, in your case, political and financial motivations do not differ sharply. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Wow! I didn't know that.]] I note that this Mr Sons was also the one who spoke of a thousand victims in this case, and you made a rather hasty parliamentary decision about it, and then it turned out that they had applied for fifty-one as victims. I have to say, in general, this debate is wonderful. You stand here, Mr. Kocsis, Mr. Nacsa, and you slander, speak vegetables, and lie behind the protection of your own immunity. Earlier, they said in the press that Csaba Czeglédy would go to Brussels to have immunity, and now they're saying that he didn't want to go to Brussels. Csaba Czeglédy has told us from the beginning what he wants and what he intends to do: he wants to campaign alongside the party he sees as an enemy of this system, alongside the Democratic Coalition. You were trying to stop it, and now you're running around pouting and pouting because you didn't make it. I understand this, it must be a bad feeling, and it must feel particularly bad that, while you have constantly slandered the Democratic Coalition and Csaba Czeglédy, the voters have made it the largest opposition party. I understand it's hard for you to take this, but we're gonna be bigger, and you're gonna be smaller, so get used to it. I would also like to say that your interpretation is ridiculous because Csaba Czeglédy did not have to take any action. [[István Szilárd Németh: Under!]] Before you made this decision, you could have traveled, had you intended to dispose of evidence, but obviously you didn't intend to; you didn't, by the way, take on the nomination of Congress in any other way, because you want to face your people, your prisoners in court, as you did during the press trials, and you won these press trials in a row. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's right.]] Here you are, by the way, slandering the Democratic Coalition, talking about addiction and illicit funding. I'm telling you, even your party prosecutors didn't go this far. Of course, Mr Kocsis may have already read the verdict, he has had practice and we are moving forward in this direction. We therefore stand up for democracy and defend the rule of law. Here we have heard a number of examples of your faction being filled with Members who have been referred to in such-as-the-same crimes and who are protected from them only by your prosecutor's office and, where appropriate, by immunity. So, to answer Congressman Nacsa's question, we are not on the side of criminals who abuse the law, we are not on your side, we are on the side of the rule of law and the people, and we are voting against this bill. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-71	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Péter Ungár, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2019-06-12-72	Thank you for the floor. I would start with the question of where the political client of this law is, where Csaba Hende is. Where is the man who seems to be able to gain political position either through a law or, say, in the case of the Hungarian Democratic Forum? The fact is, Mr. Group leader and Congressman Kósa have mentioned this several times that you are expecting an interim election. [[13.20]] It may be because Csaba Hende will be running for mayor in Szombathely, and then there would be an interim. I'm afraid that's... [[Dr. Pál Völner: There is no immunity!]] But at the midterm, in Parliament, he's there! [[Dr. Pál Völner: No!]] The point is, after the mayor's election, no one will be able to run by midterm, because the mayor's election is likely to be lost, so there won't be a chance. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What does this have to do with immunity? Dr. Pál Völner: The subject is immunity! The president's ringing the bell.]] The fact is that you are pretending to eliminate some huge legal hiatus that has caused Hungary terrible things. For four weeks, Csaba Czeglédy was facing the procedure because of this whole charade. [[Dr. Pál Völner: It's gone!]] I mean, it's been going on for four years. Four weeks, four years! I do not think that the Hungarian legal service, which, by the way, has been famously fast under you, and indeed, any judgment has been given over the years, it is precisely these four weeks that have so horribly hindered it from achieving its outcome. The thing is, you don't like this man very much. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You love him!]] That's why they made a law. It is a personal law, and it is known that Congressman Kósa has said Csaba Czeglédy's name seventy-four billion times in his expo. [[Dr. Pál Völner: He was a candidate for the EP!]] If this law had been about changing the system of immunity, because it is neither good nor good, then they should not have said the name of a former municipal representative seventy-four times. It's a personalized law, which is because someone's bothering you politically. And don't tell me it's not surprising that yesterday this man became a candidate for Congress in one of the saturdays, and today we have to talk about how he's gonna change a law! In addition, this is, as a matter of fact, before the municipal elections, something is important, since the municipal elections are now coming. I understand what you're going to say here, Mr. Secretary. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Thank you.]] But if you wanted to transform the system of immunity on a systematic basis, holistically, because my fellow Member, who has been here for many years, has had so much experience that you want to tell me this, why is this the time now? Why the municipal elections? Why the day after the announcement of Saturday's cooperation? Because this is on the political order of Csaba Hende, because Csaba Czeglédy has failed several people at the Town Hall of Szombathely, Vice Mayors and others. So, the thing is, this bill is personalized, it's about being able to limit an institution system so that it can be denied to anyone after legal proceedings to run for office. That's why it's not a good bill. Plus, it's a bill that comes from your weakness and your fear. The fact is that there is no place in Hungary to do that there are one or two people in this Chamber who like this in the constituency, some say that there is no way that anything can happen in this town or in this constituency without him knowing about it. These are towns inhabited by independent Hungarian people, settlements inhabited by living Hungarian people and not your fief property, where, if you don't like what someone says or doesn't like what someone does, then they change the law or then fire your wife as a kindergarten teacher. This isn't gonna work anymore. Sooner or later, I think the water is the master! The appropriate artistic reference will be over. I think the Prime Minister used to say it like that, that, as a god of grace, it's like a god of vows, I think it's a saying. So if you start to change the law personally, if you start to change laws tailored to people, then what happens when you go into opposition? Then what's going to happen? So this whole system stays the same, everything's gonna be okay? I think that if you have a political problem with this man, that has happened in the Hungarian political history, that is what the election is for, that Derkovitson will have a Fidesz candidate there, then he will have to fight with him, and whoever the electorate gives confidence to serve the electorate. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You have to choose them from prison, yeah!]] It's as simple as that. You don't have to make a law about this, you don't have to tell this man his name seventy-nine times, you don't have to do anything, let's see who wins that particular district, who's gonna decide who's legit in Szombathely, and not what kind of laws you're making here, I don't know how many. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-73	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I give the opportunity for a two-minute speech to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP.
u2019-06-12-74	Thank you very much. All this nonsense that Peter Ungár said here, I just want to clear it up a little bit. So, as my fellow Member, Mr Lajos Kósa, said, the Czeglédy case pointed out that there is an opportunity for abuse here, where immunity can be abused. And obviously, it doesn't have a retroactive effect. Csaba Czeglédy's immunity ended at midnight on May 26th. [[Peter Ungár: Yes, four weeks!]] It was good to get him out of justice at that time. On the other hand, there is no immunity in the municipal elections, so there is obviously no connection with the municipal elections, because against Csaba Czeglédy, if it is proved during the proceedings that he has committed something in the charges against him, then the court will make its judgment. So to suggest that there is some kind of conflict here at the municipal elections in some county-righted city, and that's what the bill is about, it simply has to be rejected, because there is no such thing. The Czeglédy case has shown that this can be used in an abusive manner, and that all opposition parties have helped to use it abusively, and that is what our bill is for to close this loophole in the future. And, again, before becoming a candidate, there was an indictment or a court order. So that case clearly doesn't relate to his candidacy, it has nothing to do with his candidacy. [[Gergely Harvestó: Nothing, of course!]] because it is an earlier case, not in the course of his candidacy, his campaign activity or even later in the course of his representative's activities, but in a previous case, which is already pending, and there has been either an indictment or a judicial coercion. Because this obviously has nothing to do with your candidacy. I understand that Gergely Arató is also very uncomfortable that this morning Ferenc Gyurcsány sent him in here to protect criminals. We're not giving an opinion on criminals, we're giving Csaba Cseglédy a document that he's a criminal. You're trying to suggest opinions here, and we're talking facts. [[Zsolt Gréczy: Is there a judgment? Lajos Kósa: There are, two of them!]] Csaba Cseglédy has a record that he's a criminal. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-75	Thank you very much. I will give the floor to Congressman Péter Ungár for two minutes.
u2019-06-12-76	I was merely trying to point out that there is a law in which the name of a former municipal representative, currently candidate for a municipal representative, was mentioned seventy-seven times in his debate. We're ahead of the municipal election, so I'm pretty sure this has something to do with the municipal election. [[Nacsa Lawrence: It's none of your business!]] I think that all these coincidences can show that this has something to do with the municipal election and that Csaba Hende systematically beat up his own majority in Szombathely. [[Nacsa Lawrence: No!]] Why you might be angry... I don't know why you're mad at us, because all we could do was be happy, not help. But the thing is, this whole thing has something to do with each other, that there's going to be a municipal election and that you're not doing well in Szombathely in relation to the municipal election. Otherwise, why would they say this man's name if he had just highlighted some big structural problem that suddenly came to his mind at this moment, then why did he have to say this man's name seventy-eight times? There's gonna be a municipal election in a district, they're gonna put a candidate there, and we're gonna see who's gonna win. This is how it can be civilised, so to speak, to settle this conflict, not as if Csaba Czeglédy had already initiated legal proceedings against MEP Böröcz for various press conferences or similar sentences. [[Dr. Pál Völner: How well-informed you are!]] Not by doing this in the debate of a bill. So all I'm asking you to do is, if you're really interested in Csaba Czeglédy failing in Szombathely, go to Derkovits to flyers with the Fidesz candidate, that's the way, not the law. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-77	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Arató applied for two minutes.
u2019-06-12-78	Dear Bacsa Congressman! If you believe that anyone believes that Csaba Czeglédy's political activities have nothing to do with the fact that he has been prosecuted by the Attorney General appointed by you and extremely well-connected with you, then you see this country as more stupid than I have ever assumed. No person would believe that in Hungary, which politicians are being prosecuted and which politician they are not, would not have anything to do with their political activities. [[Dr. Pál Völner: My Paranoia. It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]] [[13.30]]
u2019-06-12-79	Thank you very much. I'll give the floor to Mr György Szilágyi, right-hand congressman for two minutes.
u2019-06-12-80	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I didn't want to comment, but Congressman Nacsa seems to have a problem with understanding the text. Then I'll tell you the Jobbik's point of view. We support changing this system, which you have created together with the MSZP. [[Dr. Pál Völner: This is not how you voted.]] What we resent is that you understand that there is no bad criminal and no good criminal. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: KGB. Dr. Pál Völner: What about Béla Kovács?]] There are criminals. Whether these criminals are on the left or in the benches of Fidesz. The problem is that if you had stood up and said that this was an untenable condition, and you would have said that you were ashamed because Miklós Simon was still sitting in your benches, even though he would have been convicted, or asked the question that the common criminal, Flórian Farkas, who had been in prison, who had been granted Presidential pardon, who, at the moment, could not account for 1.6 billion for why he was still sitting here, we would have no problem. You're the only one who says there's six billion forints here, and he doesn't care about 1.6 billion. It doesn't matter which side you're sitting on, anyone who touches public money, who commits a public crime, should be punished. The problem is that you're trying to attack criminals in the benches of Fidesz with teeth and nails, and others like this, with lex law. We don't want there to be a double standard in this country. It doesn't matter whether the person involved is a friend of Lajos Kósa or a friend of Csaba Hende, or a friend of Ferenc Gyurcsány, or a friend of anyone who is a criminal, shouldn't be protected by immunity. That's what we say, and that's what we stick to all the time. If you can understand that now, then you understand Jobbik's point of view. If not, you will press a button again, stand up and say the mantras that I believe Antalek Rogán described to you in panels. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-12-81	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, President of the Commission, Mr Lajos Kósa, if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor.
u2019-06-12-82	Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Csaba Czeglédy's name has been mentioned more than we wish to submit a bill against Parliament. Csaba Czeglédy plays an important role on the left as a financer and background man, but not so much as making a law for his sake. His activity and the opposition's activities have only highlighted the problem that, indeed, in the regulation of immunity, there is a gap that can be misused, and the opposition has done so. Everyone did, so did the Betterman. With Csaba Czeglédy, we don't assume he's a criminal, we claim he's a criminal. That is because, in the grounds for the Veszprém County Court judgment of 11 June 2003, Csaba Czeglédy was found to be a reptile criminal. Therefore, his judgment was aggravated in 2003 during the MSZP administration. In 2003, there was no Fidesz prosecutor, no Fidesz justice or state power. [[Gergely Harvesto: It must be now.]] In 2003, under the Socialist Government, he was found to be a reptile criminal. It's not a presumption, it's a fact. That's the second time he was convicted of the same crimes as he is being prosecuted. The law does not, of course, have retroactive effect. The law does not affect the election of mayors, mayors, representatives, representatives of local governments or potential candidates, as these positions, these people are not entitled to immunity. We are proposing to put an end to the abusive practices of the opposition in the use of immunity, and to close this loophole. Because, yes, once again, DK, MSZP, the representative of Jobbik, calls my colleague Andrea Szilágyi, who may call him and ask him why he voted in favour of maintaining the immunity of a criminal at the meeting of the National Election Committee. [[György Szilágyi: He acted as a lawyer according to the law. That's why.]] , representative of the LMP, representative of the Dialogue, representative of the Momentum, representative of the Two-Day Dog Party and even representative of the Mi Hazank Movement have also decided not to apply the law which my fellow Member Arató wrongly stated, but has decided to reserve or terminate immunity in the submission of the President of the National Election Committee in a specific case where Csaba Czeglédy is already in a judicial capacity in criminal proceedings for more than HUF 6 billion in total budget fraud, violation of accounting discipline, forgery of private documents, in the same cases in which he has already been convicted and is otherwise in a criminal conspiracy, so it was committed in a criminal conspiracy. So my fellow Member, Mr Arató, is mistaken, and there was no forced application of the law here. Andrea Borbély, a member of Jobbik's delegation, decided to uphold the immunity of a criminal or to issue it to justice. Jobbik's representative has decided to uphold his immunity. Andrea Barbély has not been recalled from the National Election Committee since then. To note, and to the honour of the opposition here, our homeland movement has replaced Mariann Csáky because she did not agree that Mariann Csáky maintained her immunity, otherwise she has the right to do so. So Jobbik could have corrected me if he wanted to. [[György Szilágyi: As a lawyer, he decided according to the laws in force.]] Instead, they decided that the lawyer of MSZP and Ferenc Gyurcsány and Klára Dobrev's business partner, who is a repeat criminal, protect and maintain immunity. [[Gergely Harvesto: He'd rather have it than yours.]] However, there were other stupidities in the debate. In this regard, I would just like to point out that, of course, the presumption that anyone in this legislative amendment could be elected as a candidate in the election campaign is a serious mistake. It's just an escape route, because obviously Mr. Arató can't say that children, let's face it, Czeglédy is funding us, knows a lot about Gyurcsány, Klára Dobrev , about our former cases, can you tell us how and who financed the Nolimpian collection movement; Kiss Zoltán's campaign to fund and organize Csaba Czeglédy's effective support and money, which he has obtained from tax fraud; so it is better to save or at least to bring the truth to light as late as possible. I mean, let's not forget, in this crime, this is also publicly available data that has made a number of detailed confessions. In this case, a final judgment has already been handed down, because, for criminal and procedural reasons, there is already a first-rate judgment in the case of the Macedonian School Association, which sentenced the defendant to three and a half years in prison, who, by the way, has made a statement against Czeglédy, because Czeglédy was also in the background in this case. So the presumption of innocence, of course, deserves a lot of people, but with regard to Czeglédy, we know that would be a strong exaggeration. Furthermore, Czeglédy has been known for a long time in the world of school cooperatives, as the organizer of the school cooperative world, who, by the way, receives positions through tax evasion and other crimes, but István Fiák, the Student Chair elected by student associations, is the person who is destined to represent the interests of student associations and school associations. Czeglédy used to brag about such a cooperative. About 20 percent of cooperatives, exactly nine cooperatives. They are already in criminal proceedings, so they have ceased significantly. Otherwise, the market has grown very significantly since then, and I am really proud that, with the support of the Fidesz fraction, we have cleaned this market from 2010 onwards. [[Intercoms from DK's ranks.]] And today, 180,000 students earn more than 40 billion forints with their own work, complementing the money they're obviously getting from their parents to finance their academic studies. [[13.40]] It made it possible for them to recall that the reverse VAT was introduced in connection with the student association. This, by the way, pulled the floor from under the VAT cheater Czeglédy's feet. We introduced the student cooperatives under the cooperative law, and, most importantly, we introduced the minimum service fee, which allowed students to receive at least the minimum wage and, by the way, the student associations to pay the taxes that Czeglédy has constantly cheated on, it is clear from this case. In the future, whether the opposition or Csaba Czeglédy had prepared an abuse of immunity, we know from the parliamentary election, where he was arrested in advance, and he arranged from the trailer in Szombathely for him to run as a representative. If it was registered then, it would have to be released from custody as well. This was not done because he was prosecuted in another case. All in all, I think that I very much hope, once again, that we will find out what is really the reason for the great cooperation, the great-great alliance, that has not been able to achieve anything in the last nine years, only one thing, in the rescue of a criminal. The great cooperation took place in the case of Csaba Czeglédy [[Gergely Harvesto: The truth is so unpleasant!]] from LMP to Momentum to MSZP and DK. In the case of DK and MSZP, after they're talking about their own home lawyer, I can only understand it, but I don't know how they got Jobbik, Dialogue or Momentum to do that, but I hope so. [[Gergely Harvesto: They read the law!]] It's gonna come out this time. And the great lesson for the whole country is that the great unity was achieved first and fully in the rescue of a criminal within the opposition. We congratulate the opposition on this. And I would like to ask my fellow Members to support or not support this law, but if this is a two-thirds law, then tell everyone, to their fellow criminals, that children, a loophole closes, that we can no longer save you, and we apologize for that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-12-83	Thank you very much, Mr President of the Commission. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the draft law on the publication of the agreement on cooperation between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the field of military aviation and air defence activities will follow. The government referral is T/6193. is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István Németh Szilárd, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Defence, author of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame.
u2019-06-12-84	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The stability of our region is a key issue for European security and our country is therefore interested in deepening cooperation with NATO and the European Union. Due to the increasing pressure on the Balkans and the increased summer tasks of the police, the government has decided that the Hungarian Defence Forces will once again take part in border surveillance with greater numbers and full capacity. On the other hand, the Hungarian people in the European Parliament elections gave us the authority to fight for the stopping of immigration, for the Europe of nations and for the protection of Christian culture. In view of this, I would also like to stress that Hungary's defence costs will reach 2 percent of domestic GDP by 2024 in line with NATO requirements and expectations, but for example, this year we will spend 30 percent of our defence expenditure on modernisation and military development. It is important to note that next year, defence investments will continue, as well as developments aimed at the living conditions, remuneration and social appreciation of soldiers. Dear fellow Members, Hungary is currently one of the safest countries in the world. Without security, there is no economic growth, no development, and the key to security lies in a strong army, the abilities of Hungarian soldiers and the Hungarian Defence Forces. In order to make the best use of these capabilities, the Hungarian Defense budget will be increased by 20 percent by the government compared to 2019. Thus, next year's defence budget will reach HUF 616 billion, and this budget also includes the financial balance that underpins the fulfilment of our military and political allies' duties and obligations. The purpose of this bill is to recognise the mandatory scope of the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on cooperation in the field of military aviation and air defence activities. The total number of air defence equipment provided by the nations operating on standby within the NATO Allied System for air defence operations against NATO's sovereignty, continued responsiveness, hostile activity or flight violation of NATO air space. The European Union can only be strong if it is made up of strong Member States. In peacetime, all European NATO countries should ensure that the sovereignty of national airspace is maintained with their own capabilities, thereby ensuring the necessary standby service and the effective functioning of the system. The basic NATO rules for NATO's integrated air defence and missile defence system shall be adopted with the agreement of all NATO Member States. Its rules set out in detail possible steps against an air carrier. There is a need for legal relations at public level between the two Member States cooperating in the airspace police. Dear Parliament, This cooperation is reflected in NATO decisions and rules in the case of NATO's mandate. Since NATO itself cannot order a country to open its airspace to aircraft supplying air traffic control in another country, it is therefore allied that neighbouring countries should settle this in a bilateral international agreement. That is precisely the purpose of this bill. In view of the spirit, objectives and requirements of the federal directives on airspace security, our country has already negotiated or initiated negotiations with several neighbouring countries. In 2008, the bilateral surveillance agreement with Romania entered into force. The protection of Slovenia's airspace as NATO Alliance will be provided together with the Italian Air Force's contingency forces from 2014 on the basis of an intergovernmental agreement. Negotiations with Slovakia are ongoing. The substantive negotiations with Croatia started in September 2018, and the agreement was initialled on 8 April 2019 in Budapest. The purpose of the signed agreement is to define the main rules for cooperation in order to improve the effectiveness of the activities of the air defence response forces operating under the NATO integrated air defence and missile defence system and to further enhance the definition of the main rules for the implementation of airspace police tasks and the development of staff training in principle. Close international cooperation also shows that we are currently conducting a series of highly visible exercises in part in Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Slovenia, Croatia and Northern Macedonia. The agreement also includes the parties' responsibilities in relation to the airspace police, rules on the use of national airspace and aircraft, search and rescue operations, investigation of air accidents and the provision of ground and air services for aircraft carrying out the airspace police task, training and visits, as well as rules on claims settlement and information exchange between the parties. [[13.50]] Dear Parliament, The most important task for us is the security of the Hungarian people and the stopping of immigration in that context. The Hungarian people said that they want to see European leaders who do not want to organize, but want to stop immigration. I can assure you that we will do everything we can to preserve our European way of life, the independence and cooperation of nations, and to promote the survival of Christian culture with a strong protection of our borders. All of this requires pan-European cooperation, a strong alliance and anti-immigration politicians. This bill also serves the full fulfilment of these federal tasks. Hungary is one of the most reliable members of NATO, the safest guardian of our European Schengen borders. I urge you to support the bill before us in order to achieve these objectives and to strengthen our military and political allies system. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-12-85	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Congressman Barna Pál Zsigmond, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-06-12-86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, There is no doubt that the efficiency of the continent's air defense is also in the interests of Hungary's security policy. Therefore, we in the Fidesz fraction are pleased to hear that after Romania and Slovenia, a bilateral air defence agreement has already been concluded with the third neighbouring country. We can say that Hungary and Croatia have had good relations since the signing of the 1992 Convention on Friendly Relations. This current agreement is yet another step towards closer cooperation and ultimately stability and unity in the Central European region. At the same time, it is important for us to meet the expectations of the North Atlantic Alliance in addition to strengthening Hungarian-Croatian friendships. It is important to show that Hungary takes the North Atlantic Treaty seriously and plays an active role in creating a coordinated European defence. In accordance with NATO principles, it respects the sovereignty of its members and the right of control over their airspace. This, however, reduces the effectiveness of European air defence, as legal barriers are raised to the various surveillance activities. This problem is solved by the organisation's request for bilateral agreements from neighbouring Member States. These conventions, which are voluntarily concluded by the Member States in accordance with their own interests, clarify public-law issues arising from air defence and military aviation, improve the effectiveness of the action of the air defence response forces. The continued development of defence cooperation is essential for the stability of the Central European region. The Fidesz faction welcomes the agreement, as the security of our country and of Europe is at stake. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-12-87	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-06-12-88	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, There is an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on cooperation in the field of military aviation and air defence activities before this House. The aim of the cooperation is to improve the activities of the Air Defence Emergency Forces, to carry out cross-border operations related to the implementation of the airspace police task, and to train personnel and cooperate in this. The fact that this cooperation has already been established with other neighbouring countries, Romania and Slovakia shows that we are moving towards the right direction, since it is very important to protect our borders, including airspace, and air protection. The reason why this agreement is necessary is no more obvious than the fact that the decision-makers already recognised in 2004 that it was necessary to install a local space station not only for high-flying aircraft, but also for low-flying aircraft. This was designed for the Zingő, and then it failed with reference to environmental reasons, and at the Croatian border, the Croatian Republic's location station is monitoring the southwest air space of our country, and we, if my information is correct, will help Gripen to deal with those who violate their airspace, thus ensuring that the air space of the two neighbouring states is secured and the operations that are taking place there. Of course, the Jobbik Group will support this cooperation agreement and we trust that the goals will be achieved and that we can indeed have a safe Hungary. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause from Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2019-06-12-89	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2019-06-12-90	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Hungarian-Croatian military aviation and air defense agreement was established NATO expectation, which is also in line with other international conventions in force. Neighbouring countries regulate their cooperation in the field of surveillance through bilateral agreements, creating public-law conditions. In addition, aviation safety is a very important objective. These expectations are met in this agreement. Hungary considers it important to develop good and balanced relations with neighbouring countries and cooperation in different areas. In addition to the above, the deepening of energy cooperation with Croatia is therefore of paramount importance. On the island of Krk, an LNG terminal is built with a capacity of 2.6 billion cubic metres. This could also be an alternative to Hungary's gas supply, with about 1.7 billion cubic metres of gas moving towards Hungary every year. The project is supported by the European Union. It is important to note that there are seven road border crossings on the 355 kilometres of Hungarian-Croatian border. Our aim is to increase cross-border opportunities as well as Community transport links. There are also high-level discussions on this. The objectives include the development of the M6 motorway and the expansion of the Community transport potential between Pécs and Osijek. We also support cooperation between small and medium-sized enterprises on both sides of the border. Trade flows between the two countries exceeded EUR 2.2 billion last year. Eximbank has opened a credit line for Hungarian companies who want to invest in Croatia. Within the framework of the economic development programme in Drávag, Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, mainly agricultural and business development projects, received a HUF 1 billion grant. Croatia is also a tourist destination for us. In the last year, 655 thousand Hungarians visited the Croatian coast. Chinese, Croatian and Hungarian have also agreed to offer Hungarian-Croatian joint tourist programs to Chinese tourists arriving in Central Europe, which will focus on Budapest in Hungary and on the coast in Croatia. Obviously, it's just a flash-forward. Cooperation in the field of aviation and air defence agreements and air defence activities and military aviation is considered to be a priority, with the KDNP fraction supporting the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-12-91	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2019-06-12-92	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Mr. Secretary, if it weren't inappropriate to sit here in Parliament wearing a hat, I would have picked up and lifted my hat. In fact, this kind of communication feat is how, by the way, a NATO obligation and a completely obvious agreement based on mutual interest between Croatia and Hungary, you have managed to involve almost everything that has been launched as a communication in recent months...! I'm just gonna ask you very quietly that I've been thinking about this for the last few weeks. I hope you didn't make a mistake and agreed with the party centre so that you wouldn't be talking about the pro-immigration EU leaders, while you might be voting in favour of your comrades and fellow fighters at the same time. But given that Congressman Nacsa opened all the doors here, so everything about Croatian matters can be talked about, the great Hungarian-Croatian friendship, let me tell you something. I remember that on his last visit to Zagreb, Prime Minister said that there were certainly problems in Croatian-Hungarian relations, and he also mentioned at the Hungarian Permanent Conference that there was a spike under my fingernails, so let's pull the spike out from under my fingernails. We remember that it was Hungary, Minister of Foreign Affairs Szijjártó, who indicated that he could not support Croatia's membership of the OECD, precisely because Croatia continued to maintain the procedure with regard to MOL and MOL, despite an arbitration decision. [[14.00]] After that, we remember that the ominous Sargentini report, which is obviously very painful for you, was not voted by the representatives of the Croatian governing party, and Hungary's position on OECD membership changed suddenly. I don't think there's a connection, obviously there's no such thing in politics, but if we put these things together, then maybe it's a real thing. It was then that Interpol had Croatia's record that Zsolt Hernádi was banned, and there was a warrant for his arrest. After that there was the ominous Hungarian Permanent Conference, where the Prime Minister said that they have raised what is in the debate of private companies to a state level, and until this changes, Hungary believes that relations are not cloud-free. I have only said this, Mr Secretary of State and honourable Member, because if we are talking about friendship and about concluding a very important treaty, then my request is that, in this respect, we really are talking about a country that is historically and culturally important to Hungary, where part of Hungary lives and some Hungarians live across borders, and we really take these things seriously. Moreover, as far as the treaty itself is concerned: as it is apparent in recent decades, the governments in this type of case have always taken the right steps and decisions, sometimes you have, and we will, of course, support it in the final vote. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-93	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. I'll give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP, in two minutes.
u2019-06-12-94	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, I didn't really want to comment on this, but Mr Nacsa's comment moved me to ask a question. As a representative from Pécs, Baranya, I consider it extremely important to establish a good relationship between the two countries, and obviously we need to develop interoperability and infrastructure between the two countries. As an active Fidesz Member present, I would like to ask Mr KDNP, a Member of the Government, what has happened. In 2015, Viktor Orbán was in Pécs, and at the end of April 2015, he personally promised, for many times, that the M6 motorway would be extended to the Croatian border by starting construction in 2016, and this short section will be completed by the end of 2018. I'm telling you, there hasn't been a single cut in the case. Orbán also promised that the section of the M60 motorway between Pécs and Barcs will also be built on both sides until the Croatian border. This promise has not been fulfilled. A much older promise, not only by Viktor Orbán, but also by other government members, is that new border crossing points will be established at the very long, impenetrable border section of Croatian-Hungarian Baranya. None of them have been set up. I would like to use it to address such issues in the Parliament in order to receive an answer from a pro-government Member as to why the oral promise made by the Prime Minister in person has not been fulfilled. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-95	Thank you very much, Congressman. I recommend that this be formulated on an interpellation or parliamentary issue. I'll ask if anyone has any comments, two minutes or longer. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Szilárd Németh, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the sign of István Szilárd Németh:]] It says yes. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-12-96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to thank everyone for their comments. I do not know why socialist Members are unable to grasp the issue of security in this country or what they do not understand in this matter. There are two neighbouring countries, both exposed to the aristocratic migratory pressure that is peeking at us from Asia, Africa, and even from America, as the latest news suggests, because this is the wave that the South Americans and Central Americans are trying to ride. There is a very strong military alliance to which both countries, both neighbouring countries, are forced to endure this pressure, a member. Within NATO, these two countries conclude an international treaty on airspace security matters. These are all steps that serve the safety of both countries, but this is a very important issue for us Hungarians, because for us Hungarian interests, Hungary's sovereignty and the security of Hungarian people are the most important. And that's the security issue we've embedded this in. I think that we will not have to stop here in this story, but in another federal system, in a political federal system, there is also a very strong bond, which is the obligation of the countries serving to protect the Schengen borders. Let us hope that we will be able to cooperate on this as well soon as possible. Although Croatia is not a Schengen border, as a member of the European Union, we Hungarians are interested in involving it as soon as possible, of course if this system remains. Keeping us in this system has repeatedly explained this: Schengen 2.0, the points defined by the Prime Minister, has inspired us years ago to conclude all international treaties, all small cooperation, all direct cooperation and the conclusion of border protection cooperation. This bilateral agreement, in addition to the otherwise traditional good Croatian-Hungarian faith in our cooperation in the same cultural circle, can only be of benefit to us, because it serves Hungarian interests and the safety of Hungarian people. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Dr. László György Lukács is replaced by Dr. László Varga in the notary seat.]]
u2019-06-12-97	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have until 4 p.m. on Friday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the bill to postpone the entry into force of the Law on Administrative Courts until closure. The government referral is T/6295. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Orbán Balázs, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda within a 30-minute time frame.
u2019-06-12-98	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The bill on the table, which is T/6295. takes note of the delay in the entry into force of the Act on Administrative Courts. Technically, in a codification sense, it is a simple bill, which, in my view, is important in political terms, showing the government's openness and willingness to compromise at European level. Let's talk a little bit about the history. With the seventh amendment of the Fundamental Law, the road was opened in the summer of 2018. It is an organisation that, according to the results of administrative law and international examples, serves to complete the rule of law. We also believe that this is also about the repayment of our historic debt, and this is what Parliament did when it passed the law on administrative courts last December, because there was an independent administrative court before, but the communist regime ended it in 1949 because of its role as a rule of law. We see that the adopted law and the system of administrative courts are in line with European patterns and European traditions, because in many states of the European Union the system of administrative jurisdiction is still wholly or partly separate from the ordinary courts, which operates in the majority of states. Moreover, the adoption and preparation of this law was preceded by a five-year professional-scientific process. We see that the law adopted is fully in line with international expectations and standards. This has also been confirmed by the opinion of the Venice Commission. Moreover, the government's commitment to international dialogue and constructive cooperation is also illustrated by the fact that, on the basis of the preliminary opinion of the Venice Commission, it has made further amendments to the adopted law, which was accepted by the Venice Commission and the dialogue ended in a reassuring manner. However, the unfounded and unfounded accusations made in international political opinion regarding the Hungarian administrative judicial reform did not calm down, despite the basically positive opinion of the Venice Commission. Many of the European Union's bodies and international bodies and international NGO networks have made politically motivated accusations in the absence of knowledge of the law. We believe that these accusations and criticisms have been formulated because Hungary has a government that operates a Christian democratic political system, opposes immigration and considers the issue of national sovereignty important. [[14.10]] We consider the criticisms of the different rule of law to be part of political pressure, which merely serve to dissuade the government from its intention and political direction. We will not deviate from this direction and from this intention. Nevertheless, we believe that justice is not a game, that it cannot be part of political debates, that the independence and integrity of the judiciary must be protected. We therefore believe that pending a satisfactory conclusion of disputes based on unfounded claims on the rule of law, it is necessary to postpone the entry into force of the law on administrative courts without any time limit. That is what this bill is about, and I would like to ask for your support. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-12-99	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mr István Vitányi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2019-06-12-100	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As we have just heard from Mr Secretary of State's presentation, there are many places between the countries of the European Union where there is a separate administrative court organisation. This court system is not far from Hungarian history, as the increased involvement of the state has led to an established need in society in both legislative and law enforcement areas to discuss disputes between the state and citizens in an independent, specialised, independent forum, which ensures that the rule of law is enforced in the balance of public interest and individual interests with effective public administration in mind. As a result of this expectation, the Royal Administrative Court was established in Hungary, which was established by XXVI of 1896. I was created by an article of the law. It can therefore be said that it was this forum that provided for the requirement of equal treatment of cases in relation to State overpower, thus acting as one of the basic institutions of the rule of law. Unfortunately, it is well known to all of us that the Communist dictatorship has dismantled and abolished democratic institutions of law. An administrative court body acting as a legal institution for control over State overweight could not be an exception. I would like to highlight the year 1949, II. the justification of the law, which recognised that the concept of a rule of law included a system of public judicial action in which a judicial body outside the implementing power is responsible for deciding public-law disputes between a public pile and a seeker. I found it completely incomprehensible to the opposition voices which, at the hearing of the reopening of the General Administration Court, were the end of democracy, while the abolition of this institution had previously been one of the fundamental elements of the break-down of the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Trócsányi has already been an expert on independent administrative judicial bodies before his role in government and has urged the re-establishing of cases in Hungary in order to be more competent and effective. In keeping with the consensus of the recognised experts on the subject, based on international examples and general recommendations made by international organisations, and taking into account the traditions of Hungarian law, the judicial portfolio presented its bill for the establishment of the administrative judicial organisation and staff. The Government invited the Venice Commission, composed of recognised professors of law, to examine the proposal and to comment. The Board analysed the rules on the new system and published its recommendations. With the full integration of the comments, the Hungarian Parliament adopted the bill on additional guarantees for the independence of administrative courts. Despite the fact that the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament have complied with all legally substantiated proposals for changes, the unsubstantiated pressure in Brussels continues. While Brussels has been overlooked by EU countries where the rights of nationalities and other fundamental procedural and substantive principles are trampled on two feet, the legal systems that have undergone the strictest rule of law screening remain in the crossfire of attacks. Despite the double standard, the dialogue has not been interrupted, there is a need for further consultation. In view of this, the Fidesz Group supports Kbtv. postpone its entry into force until a satisfactory conclusion of the debates on unfounded criticisms of the rule of law in Hungary. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-12-101	Thank you, Congressman Vitányi. I now give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-06-12-102	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that it is not the judicial portfolio who is now representing the government's position in this debate. I see you agree with me on this. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Me? No!]] Obviously, it would be weird if the Minister of Troy said all kinds of good things on earth. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: Glad to be here.]] on this bill on administrative courts at the time here in Parliament, you would now be standing here and it should be said to him that we are, however, withdrawing or temporarily deferring the entry into force of this law, which, by the way, is welcomed by the Jobbik Hungary Movement. Not that it will be postponed, but that it will not be introduced, and we hope very much that this law will never come into force, and it will never be introduced. Why are we saying that? We say that because if you look at the system of administrative courts and the tradition of this in Hungary, then we all know, as we have learned from the ministerial expozee, that the system of public administration courts existed in Hungary at the end of the 19th century. If we look at this and take out our university textbook, which I wasn't lazy and did, then we can learn what university textbooks say about administrative courts, which was once introduced in Hungary at the end of the 19th century. I'd like to read what the Hungarian history of state and law textbook says by Csizmadia-Kovács-Asztalos [[Dr. Balázs Orbán: He didn't write it!]] XXVI of 1886 It's about the law. The administrative courts have been separated from the court system, but the government has centralised it under its own supervision and kept the administrative court in a position dependent on appointments through promotions. So this is what the textbook says about why this court was created in 1896. The transfiguration is quite strong in the 21st century, in the Fidesz era, when we see how strong centralization, centralization of power is here in Hungary, and what kind of high power the government is striving for, while, as we have seen, there is a system that the government and Fidesz have been unable to grind down since 2010, and this is the system of Hungarian courts. It is simply unable to accept by the government and is unable to accept by the present two-thirds majority in Parliament that there are still independent courts, but judges are subject only to the law, so they thought that a new organisation should be set up that will implement government decisions. So if we read the textbook at that time, then it's definitely ringing a bell. At one time in the 19th century, it was believed that the separation of powers in Montesquieu would solve this problem and that there would be no government overpower in justice. In the 19th century, the truth rebutted, and they could not solve it, and that is why we had to create courts that were completely independent of executive power, and the executive power could not influence the judges' judgments in any way, and that is why they created judicial systems that were accepted practically everywhere in Europe in the middle of the 19th century, where there was no such influence. Then, at the end of the 19th century, the law on administrative courts changed that, where it came back again, it was possible to influence the judgments in certain areas, as it says, through our university textbook, the appointment system, and the career system of judges. But then I ask the question of the need for administrative courts in Hungary, which operate entirely independently, except from the judicial system. Whether I say this or in previous debates years ago, I have said that it may be necessary or not from the devil if there are independent administrative courts. [[14.20]] But it works well if there are adequate guarantees in the legislation that the executive power cannot interfere with the judgment, the judicial system will be completely independent of the executive power. And we see that when this law was introduced and passed, thank God, it did not enter into force, but Hungary would have been back 170 years in European law development, we would have gone back 170 years in time. When the ministerial expo was about this law, Minister László Trócsányi said that we are part of an event of outstanding importance in the law history of Hungary, and the great debt of the regime change is to establish administrative courts, and that the administrative court was the stepchild of the regime change, that it could not have been established earlier. He referred to the noble traditions of the past and recalled spiritual wellheads who encouraged him to introduce administrative courts in Hungary. Here he mentions, among other things, Elek Boér, János Martonyi and József Szabó, who, as he said, were up-to-date in several languages in the international literature and practice of administrative justice. Well, on the other hand, we see that to whom he referred, József Szabó is a legal historian... and I have sought out what this József Szabó legal historian wrote about the administrative court, since Minister Trócsányi referred to him. So this is no longer a textbook, but a law-history study by József Szabó to the legal historian, who says about the 1886 Act that the historical responsibility for the lack of effective administrative protection introduced by this law lies with the contemporary political elite for the lack of effective administrative protection. They did not dare to demand any version of effective administrative law protection. Hungarian politics feared central power from a well-functioning, effective judicial system, which is why this form of administrative court was introduced, which was introduced in Hungary in 1896. And, well, the good idea came from the Fidesz-KDNP, if it was right then, and it was good that the independent court system should not prevail, then how good it will be for us, we can refer to historical traditions and traditions, and we will introduce it, how good it will be! On the other hand, we see that there was a huge resistance on everyone's part, and we even know that Tünde Hando issued a nearly 20-page pamphlet in which, at first sight, even he was extremely critical of the introduction of administrative courts. He didn't agree with that either. Then, of course, at a certain pressure, I think he changed his opinion, and then he accepted that there should be administrative courts. But why do I need to ask the question again to administrative courts? Why do we have to change this system? We listened here several times, every year, to the report of Tünde Hando, when he spoke about the system of judicial administration, about the level of operation of the courts and the administration of the courts in Hungary, and he said on these, he said already in 2016 that administrative jurisdiction is of outstanding quality in Hungary as well as in other countries of the European Union. He also said that Hungary is in second place, where the system of administrative justice works best within the system of independent Hungarian courts. I emphasized that, but that's how it worked. He then said in his report in 2017 that we have made a huge step forward, because Hungary has become the first in the European Union, and the best administrative justice is here, practically throughout the European Union. I do not think that we are the first in so many things in the European Union, and we are pleased, and we can indeed be proud that the courts work so well. If the Hungarian judges are so well prepared and indeed Hungarian administrative justice is the best in the European Union, we can be proud of it. And I do not think that if I ask this question again, that there is a need for a new administrative court system, that we should break down the system that has worked excellently in Hungary over the last two decades. I don't think that's gonna have to be broken down. And I'm gonna ask why Fidesz, the government, wants to tear this thing down if it works well. If the administrative court system is first professionally in the European Union, if it works so well professionally, if there is no professional complaint, then why do you need a whole new changing the system, I ask this question. Obviously, there can be only and exclusively political reasons for this, political reasons, based on which we have already seen when we talked about forced retirement of judges, when they put forward that bill to intimidate independent Hungarian courts, to do so, not to make laws that they think are in line with the law, but to make judgments that are appropriate to the government. And indeed, in this law, which is now, thank God, will not come into force, and we hope that it will never come into force, this would have given the government the opportunity to exercise a great influence and have the opportunity to influence judgment. This is primarily about the selection process that Minister said in his expozee that the judges will be taken over here and how good this will be, the administrative judges will be coming over. Yes, but we also saw that in many places the judges did not sign up to come over; and when Tünde Handó told us about how many judges were expected to come over, and we also learned from the Ministry how many members the administrative court would have, we saw that by far half of the judges would not be released in the system of these administrative courts. In practice, a system of selection has been included in this bill, which has then become a law, a selection system that has determined the courts to in the future practically exclusively fill vacant judicial posts outside the judicial system, from the public administration, or posts that will not be set up on 1 January 2020 will be filled from the outside. Here, about two thirds of the courts would have been on the outside. It's clearly in the text of the law, and they're named, if I remember correctly, 81. The institutions in which workers must be given priority over others. Who are they? Obviously, in the ministries, in the ministerial bodies, in the government offices, in the prosecutor's office, so those who have been constantly constrained by the government in the knowledge of the two-thirds majority, and the people working in them who have socialised that they must meet the Minister's expectations must indeed meet the government's expectations, because they can lose their jobs immediately if they do not do so. That's how you influence who you choose. They have developed a system of points in the career system of judges and admissions, which is quite clearly... and then you would have said that completely legally, that is the law, that is what must be applied, that those from outside have an advantage, and that is, in the course of the score, an advantage that is virtually irretrievable. And it would also have brought the system that virtually from within court secretaries and authors could never have been judges, because outsiders would always have an advantage based on the scores. But if not, then there is the last right of veto for the Minister of Justice to veto the appointment of a judge at any time, even if the appropriate administrative judicial council has chosen him to be the most suitable and professionally the best, the Minister may still say, in addition to a justification, that for whatever reason he did not like the attitude of this judge, he was not convinced by his professional knowledge and describes him in 3-4 sentences, because only one justification must be added and he will no longer be put forward to the President of the Republic, and he will not be appointed judge. So in this way, the government is able to fill these courts with its own people virtually continuously, and no soothing brake has been incorporated into this system, even if the Venice Commission has repeatedly told you its critical arguments, but it has not been incorporated at all levels. At some level it has been turned in, but it has not been touched fundamentally, and there is still the basic possibility today to put together a team that will meet not the law, but primarily ministerial expectations. This is the biggest problem of this law, which is why this law was not eligible. [[14.30]] So I'd like to say my main concerns once again. Political influence of cases would have been an opportunity, and we believe that another bastion of the rule of law would have fallen, and that judicial independence would have been greatly impaired. We think it is wrong to break up a single court organisation, this new system will remove justice from customers, because they will also be very far away in space. There will be no uniform application system for judges, it will be possible to hold the posts for political fitness, and candidates from public administration have already learned to identify with this political system. These are the main reasons why this law is unacceptable to us, and we are very pleased that it will not be introduced now, and we hope that this will be postponed forever. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2019-06-12-103	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2019-06-12-104	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I had a feeling of Déjà vu, and the right-wing speech was as if six months ago we could have listened to the discussion of the bill setting up administrative courts. Congressman, that's not what the law is about. It's to postpone. The KDNP faction believes that the government has rightly initiated the immediate delay of the introduction of the administrative court system, because we see that the introduction of this was in the crossfire of an international debate that would have been capable of turning judicial offices and judicial independence into a political arena, using international political influence, and that the political scene would obviously have been in danger here. Obviously, these series of international attacks are completely unfounded. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] As Mr Secretary of State has already said, the administrative court is fully in line with European standards and the rule of law, so there is no question. I got hit by two sentences from my better fellow Member. One is that if we go back to something that used to work, it's gonna throw our legal system back 170 years. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: I didn't say that!]] As conservative politicians, we believe that if something good has been used by this country before, and the country has benefited from it, and it has essentially benefited people, then it is worth returning to it many times. One of the basic conditions of conservative politics is that we do not want to wipe out the past, but to learn from it, and what is valuable, what is good, to use from it. So I do not understand why you think that this would have rejected the European or Hungarian legal order for any number of years. The other thing that struck my attention from my fellow Member is that he said that we are first in judicial judgment and independence in the European Union. We're not the first in anything, how good we are to be the first in this, to be kept. My fellow Member, be proud of our achievements, we are the first in many things in the European Union. For example, we are the first in the system of family support, first in family support in proportion to GDP, for example in support of ecclesiastical communities in the European Union, for example, otherwise in child support or in need-based support in the EU [[Interventions from opposition parties.]] For example, we are the first in the EU to reduce taxes in recent years, and we have the most reduced taxes. So there's a result we can be proud of. Our goal is to be among the five most livable countries in the European Union in 2030, but there are already results worth being proud of regardless of party standing. That is why there are obviously some things in which we are the first in the European Union. Our goal is not to be the first in the European Union, but to ensure that Hungarian people are constantly improving their living conditions and that the situation in Hungary is as good as possible. Returning to the bill, what is right is that, in the crossfire of the international debate, which unfortunately has a significant political feeling, the government decides to postpone, and the KDNP fraction supports this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-105	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2019-06-12-106	Dear Parliament, Manfred Weber, the leader of the Group of the European People's Party and his European Commission presidential candidate, said, I quote literally: "I wouldn't accept the President of the European Commission if he were elected by the votes of Fidesz."This doesn't mean a major turnaround, the group leader has criticized Fidesz before, and his statement fits perfectly with the series of events that led to the suspension of Fidesz within the European People's Party. What has changed, however, is Fidesz's fight against the European People's Party. While they were not willing to do anything earlier to reconsider the criticisms of the Hungarian government, to remedy their abuses and lawlessness, they are now taking spectacular steps to keep the European People's Party's tolerated and endured members. Such a step is the proposal before us. We already knew about the administrative court system that they would function as political courts loyal to Fidesz, in which the minister will judge whoever the minister wants, as long as the minister wants, and these judges will decide as the minister wants. That's how they put the construction together. In addition to this model, they have endured to the extreme until now, since the present proposal postpones the introduction of an administrative court system for an indefinite period. This is welcome, as Fidesz courts will not be the bodies that decide, for example, to issue data on public funds for a little longer, and also because, on the basis of the present proposal, labour courts in Hungary will not be abolished, which courts in this country, by the way, need very much for vulnerable workers, given the Code of Labour and the attitude of the government. However, the legislator has chosen the solution that the law on administrative courts will remain in force at any time. Fidesz can bring them back at any time when the political environment is even more acceptable to them. According to the reasons for the proposal, the delay is necessary in order to ensure that its introduction does not hinder the satisfactory conclusion of the debates on unfounded criticisms of the rule of law in Hungary. My question to the Secretary of State is how. So either there are unfounded criticisms of the rule of law, and then there is no point in this bill, or there are well-founded criticisms, so they're bringing in a law to calm down these criticisms, possibly correct them, and they're admitting with this bill that they've pushed this bike a little overboard in the past. The justification is nonsense, too, because the law that they are bringing in is a violation of their own Fundamental Law, so this proposal is unconstitutional, since it is written in the Fundamental Law that there must be such a judicial system, and this bill goes against the Constitution, since the establishment of this court system is now being postponed. He'll be in the Fundamental Law and there'll be an administrative supreme court, and there won't be one in life. It's not that I'm very concerned that this is being repared quickly, but it's really a very spicy situation when unsubstantiated criticism of the rule of law is being addressed with a proposal that is itself unconstitutional in the way it is. But let's see what the real reasons are, because it falls on sunny or rainy Monday, let's say, one of these parliamentary days, it doesn't matter. Your proposal for a tax reduction today shows how this government can change any law in a day or a day and a half. So even if this law is passed, let's say, next Monday or next week, they can bring it back and put it back into effect. That's about what this bill is worth in constitutional law. The question is what is the political reason for this bill, and how long is that reason going to last? There are two reasons you can see for sure. One is that your list leader was Minister Trócsányi in the elections to the European Parliament. It may be rather unpleasant to ask him, say, for an important and serious post of European Commissioner, such as judicial or some other decisive one, that the bill he presented, patted and defended two hundred times, which, by the way, opened the knife in the pockets of not only the Commission, Parliament and the majority of the Member States of the European Union. So, obviously, this situation may not be a very pleasant basis for negotiation, so there is probably a simple personal question in it, that, as long as there is a struggle between the governing parties at the European Commission posts, this bill is suspended so that it does not reach the front of the house. [[14.40]] In this case, probably after the personal questions have been completed, hopefully not in the extraordinary session of the summer, but they will probably be pushing the bicycle again in the autumn, and they will bring this other proposal to the effect of the great bill back here. The other option, on the other hand, is that of all Hungarian citizens, because I do not think that everyone here is interested in the positions which their politicians will achieve on certain personal issues, the fate of the next seven-year budget of the European Union, the European Union's support for Hungary, which we already know is about 25 percent lower than we have been before, and, of course, the current political position of Viktor Orbán, in which he brought Hungary into it with his policy, does not foresee much good for the country. If that is the real reason that, until the European Union adopts its next budget and, by the way, they will be able to save the country from further enormous damage in order to obtain even less resources, or perhaps not at all to obtain Hungary's EU funds, they will pawn us with this bill. After all, dozens of politicians from Manfred Weber, CDU, People's Party and Christian Democrats have said that they will continue to insist that the EU Member State will receive common money only if it meets the so-called rule of law criteria. This obviously makes more sense to justify your bill. Obviously, not only is the feudal return of administrative courts against Hungary the only criticism, there are countless proceedings against the country in other cases because of the government, and the reason why I would not go without saying what you are doing to the Academy of Sciences. And there are a number of other cases, if I understand correctly, also the question of the textbook market, where you will either back down or you will be coaxed with a temporary solution that everything is all right. In the latter case, if the question is to vote on the budget, the setting-up of administrative courts may be delayed by up to a year or more, as the current calculations suggest that the process in the European Parliament and in the Commission and in the Council will simply push over to 2020 and at the end of which the budget will be adopted. We'll see which one's real. Our problem is only that I will continue, and I will now spare everyone from once more listing the many, many professional arguments that Csaba Gyüre has told me, but the fact is, fellow Members, that the criticisms of the established rule of law are exactly what the textbook quoted by Csaba Gyüre has subsequently reported in relation to similar courts in the last century, that they want to establish practically systematically a vulnerable, non-independent judicial body related to a minister, to the government, a feudal judicial body in a feudal relationship, which will decide only in such small matters as the review of the government's own decisions, the treatment of elections or objections to the cleanness of elections, or the labour issues that affect the everyday life of each citizen, their own lives. Obviously, we will vote for this proposal, but I would like to draw the public's attention to the fact that we are looking at a really tough Barba trick here, and this Barba trick will only last as long as the real political interest of Fidesz and the root causes remain. We very much hope that this will be the case for a long time. Thank you so much for listening. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2019-06-12-107	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mr Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2019-06-12-108	Dear House, I wouldn't repeat in detail the legal arguments that you learned from law enforcement colleagues here have just said, I mean, congressmen-colleagues, I'm just looking at their expertise with awe, and I'd rather say my comment in the genre of dramaticism, because let's be clear, it's a theater. You don't have to take this seriously, dear fellow Members. You're playing a play with Parliament today, and you're playing it at a very low level, and you're not going to win an Oscar, except for a Golden Raspberry. They're trying to tell us that there's a wonderful, brilliant, great bill here, but the world's incomprehensible. The world doesn't understand our souls, it doesn't understand your wonderful, great bill, and I have to say that unfortunately, even this statement can only be proved by leaping far from the ground of reality. I mean, what's going on? You're telling us here, Secretary of State, that the Venice Commission had all sorts of excuses here, but we solved that. Dear Secretary of State, I'm not saying anything, because it's not true, because, as usual, with a rapid amendment without professional preparation, cosmetic changes have actually been made to the law at some point, but the substantive issues have not changed. They may continue to enter the administrative court as judges, even without judicial practice, even the head of the administrative court, without any judicial practice. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]] At the same time, there is still nothing to prevent the Minister of Justice from choosing himself from among the judges, and to choose who will become an administrative judge and who will not become one to mention only the most important ones. This is obviously not an independent court organisation, it is a party court that you set up to make decisions in cases of awkward administrative, environmental or assembly rights or electoral rights for you by this court. I understand it's embarrassing that the Curia is still deciding against you in this or that case. That's what I'd like to solve. I need a comfortable Patty court. Really, he's been preparing for this since then, and then he doesn't suddenly become the Supreme Administrative Court President, or to be called in grief. Well, I'm just sorry... So, anyway, what I'm trying to say to you is, the point is, you're going to set up a nice court with a nice president, nicely appointed government officials and carefully selected judges that suit you. That's all, just not an independent court, anything but a rule of law. What is behind this little charade now, Mr President, Mr Bellozó, has made an excellent point. In the election campaign, they were incredibly tough as the news. Mr Weber was incompetent, who did not love you enough, the People's Party became part of a left-wing, serialist, Gyurcsányist conspiracy. Now, after the election, they suddenly realized that Salvini did not become the strong man in the European Parliament, but the People's Party remained the largest group, and it is better to be inside the large group, the bigger, the better, the more protection it can offer you. They're running a thousand now, and they're humiliating in order to see if they'll still love you back in the People's Party, see if there's any political opportunists there willing to take you back for a few false concessions. Plus, they're in a really awkward position to turn the Minister of Trocsányi into the EU Commissioner who didn't pay his respects here today, although he taught us all about the greatness of the administrative courts when the law was introduced. [[Pointing to the speaker's stand.]] So, they want to turn László Trócsányi into an EU Commissioner, but it will be a little difficult to obtain approval from the European Parliament for a Minister of Justice who, by the way, has his feet [[Dr. István Vitányi intervenes.]] the rule of law. So I have to say to you that, of course, I understand this intention, it is a good but clear political intention, which is absolutely devoid of honor, but you just think everyone is stupid, as always. You think we're gonna believe that they're serious? If they were serious, then, on the one hand, they would have actually followed the proposals of the Venice Commission, not one of them, but all of them. Then there would be no great international negative reaction from the EU to the UN to the Venice Commission, to the Council of Europe, if a decent piece of legislation had been laid down. [[14.50]] But if they are unable or unwilling to do so, the minimum would be to withdraw the original bill. Don't suspend him. We will see and observe how you behave; if you behave well, then we may add to the administrative court that this is a way of exerting pressure. The suspension is a hoax, it's a hoax, it's just to hide your true intentions in a way that they're trying to hide. Now, I'm telling you, you're not gonna make it, so I'm afraid you're not gonna believe your own propaganda. In Brussels, Strasbourg, there are no fools who fall for you, who can be fooled by the peacock dance. Everyone understands what this story is about, and I have to say that it's both pathetic and it doesn't solve anything. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-109	Thank you very much. I now give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2019-06-12-110	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. I think that it was already worth taking part in this debate and listening to the speeches made to date. Indeed, it is clear that the opposition will be happy to vote in favour of this bill, and it could have been argued that we should have been pleased that the government has acknowledged that it was wrong, listened to international criticisms, exercised self-criticism, and postponed its entry into force in the distant future, but we know precisely that is not the case. But the debate was valuable, Mr Secretary of State, in such a way that we could hear the government's openness to international criticisms, even though it was noted that there were unfounded criticisms and that we had heard about the incomprehensible attack on Brussels and much more. Mr Nacsa also wondered why Mr Csaba Gyüre gave a very detailed professional criticism of the separate administrative courts; this was precisely because we all know that this is not a delay, but a retreat for political tactical purposes. Remember your own words, Mr Secretary of State and Mr Nacsa; I also think that we will be listening to you in the autumn, about the height of September, about how justified you are to bring this legislation into force, so compare your speeches with those that you have now. We would also like to see openness on international criticism at today's last item on the agenda, when I mention to you the very serious, unprecedented international protest and sympathy expressed to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences that we are entitled to experience in this case. I am also sorry that Minister Trocsányi is not here; indeed, he has presented a very long exposure to administrative courts that can be measured by an otherwise valuable level of legal science history. And I have to say that I believe, even in connection with the progress of Minister Trocsányi, that he really believed that it was necessary or a good thing to introduce separate administrative courts, and it is indeed not something that is inherently despicable, it was not something from the devil, it was a vision of this, and it could be done with appropriate guarantees, which the LMP has always said, even in 2016, when they first tried to do so. But we know that this was not the case here, because the government wanted to introduce this transformation as a power tool, with the corresponding consequences of what Mr Csaba Gyüre said in detail. But it is worth thinking back when the Secretary of State talks about the government's openness, what happened here in 2016. In 2016, they tried for the first time to introduce separate administrative courts, and at that time they were very open to these guarantees in their two-thirds possession, but they did not succeed, the opposition rejected this, failed to solve it, and again in 2018, with their full power, they swept down or ignored all criticisms, and the amendments tabled by LMP were wiped out without exception, in order to show you their true openness. They have made it perfectly clear in this way that you are not interested in anything, that they wanted to introduce this new system only as a power tool, to further strengthen their existing overpowers, to virtually eliminate remaining brakes in the system. Indeed, there was a slight slip, as my fellow Member mentioned, in the spring of 2019 the Venice Commission made a quick amendment to its comments, so the Venice Commission also noted that what the government had adopted, which you had accepted, was practically a cosmetics, and that it did not really remove those concerns. So you didn't take any meaningful steps in this respect either. As early as 2016, and in several previous stages of this debate, the LMP submitted a great deal of amendments and also formulated the expectations or guarantees that would be needed. We say that if you show sufficient openness or try not to tactically at last, you should not decide to postpone this proposal to such an uncertain future, but to withdraw it, but if you consider it so important to establish a system of separate administrative courts, then do so in the form of a new proposal, where these extremely important guarantees are incorporated. A system reinforced by guarantees must be established to ensure that this new system does not seek to exercise government power and to further strengthen its overpowerment. This obviously requires that administrative management is not given to the Minister of Justice, a member of the government. It is of the utmost importance that the Minister does not have such wide powers in relation to the proposal that you have put forward with regard to who may be a member of this new court. There should be regulations that exclude too few persons with adequate judicial experience. The Member also mentioned precisely that the Minister of Justice stated that 300 judges would be needed, but only 120 current judges would go to the new courts and the remaining 180 would be practically appointed by the Minister of Justice. So a two-thirds majority would be the number of new judges without judicial practice, which would be an amazing uncertainty. There is also a lack of regulation of conflicts of interest. So there could have been a case where, as a professional still acting in the administration, a judge later faced his own case, this would be an amazing contradiction. And likewise, we have proposed that we establish exclusion factors, conflict of interest rules, which are once again just a guarantee that non-politically motivated actors will make decisions. So we specifically formulated a proposal that former ministerial Commissioners, the leading functionaries of political parties, and the functionaries appointed by Parliament, should not be included in the panel. Nor was it regulated what matters could be dealt with clearly by this administrative court, so it should have been excluded that politically sensitive issues on any subject should not be transferred to it, and you have failed to do so. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] There was also no transparency in the system, so the necessary transparency in the evaluation of the applications, which we also proposed was swept away by you. We did not signal it as the most important problem, but we did not consider the regional hand to be appropriate; it would have been necessary in any case to have at least the case-law points in the county seats. So, overall, we would like to draw your attention to the fact that this is a political facade, obviously a tactical retreat, and we are afraid that you will bring this back to Parliament in a few months' time, and that you will put it into effect. We want you to withdraw it permanently. If you agree now, withdraw this measure and submit a really well-founded proposal. Once again, I would like to ask you, Secretary of State, to demonstrate at the last item on the agenda today that you count on sound and legitimate international signals and criticisms. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-111	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Congressman Bence Tordai. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-06-12-112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Last November 5th, we received an invitation to the Ministry of Justice to agree on a bill for the introduction of administrative courts, one day before the referral. I wasn't lazy, and I went to this meeting, but in point zero, I stated that this negotiation only makes sense if the government makes radical changes to this bill, or if it doesn't, then it withdraws this proposal. Of course, no substantive changes have been made. They accepted it, pushed it through force, and then in the spring, when the Venice Commission came out with its criticisms, they tried to move such a cosmetic package and thus reassure the international public concerned with the right. [[The congressman's mic keeps creaking.]] At the time and now they lied that all the problems, all the criticisms that the Venice Commission had indicated were solved with that little powder package was not true, and it is not true now. Let me quote...
u2019-06-12-113	I'm sorry, Congressman, but I need you to check that there's no phone in there somewhere, 'cause it keeps bugging me.
u2019-06-12-114	I'm gonna move it a little bit.
u2019-06-12-115	Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-116	Thank you. On 20 March, when this cosmetic package was presented, I wasn't remiss, and I looked through the English-language material of the Venice Commission because it came out a day earlier than your amendment package appeared here in Parliament, it was not yet available in Hungarian, for the Hungarian public or for the majority, this criticism was not really available, I went through it, and I looked at what the Venice Commission believed these fundamental concerns were. It is said that it places too much power in the hands of very few leaders and lacks brakes and counterweights that limit power. That's what they said about their 11th court reform, and it's getting worse now. [[15.00]] The Venice Commission says that the Minister of Justice has too much power over the appointment and career of judges, the promotion of leadership, the increase in their salary, without real redress. So it is entirely up to the self-consciousness of the minister appointed by Fidesz who can judge the administrative courts in Hungary. If this isn't a party state, then nothing, I told you a few months ago. The Venice Commission stated that the Minister would have more power than the President of the National Court of Justice, and that when the courts were set up, the Minister had too much power during the initial period to determine the size of the courts, to select judges and leaders, and there are no guarantees here. There are only two or three points to recognise the virtues of this draft, where there is a positive shift, but the rest is an empty reference to judicial independence. A little further: let us see what is the strongest argument for Minister Trócsányi, why this will still be independent, why this will still be a rule of law, why this will be a democratic institution. He said in his interview with the People's Republic, and I quote literally: "I think that constitutional responsibility should be ensured in the establishment of a new judicial system, and that can only be achieved through an interoperable minister. The responsibility of the Minister of Justice is, as I have said, accountable to Parliament. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So you think that interpelling the Minister of Justice here will ensure the constitutional legitimacy of the entire administrative court system. It is quite ridiculous, quite amazing, knowing that zero opposition interpellation can find majority support. That was the case then, and that is the case now. So, contrary to what you said here in the introduction, that you have dealt with all legitimate criticism, we have not made any progress on substantive issues anywhere. You refused to set up a truly judicial system of the rule of law if you wanted to touch it. It is not unreasonable to assume that when you are working to disrupt the system of justice, the remaining independent power, you are once again led by the self-interest of the party, so that no one can stick a stick between the spokes of the power's bike. Well, this effort seems to have not only knocked out the fuse at home, but also on the international stage. In fact, it does not matter whether the European Commission membership of the Minister of Trocsányi is at stake that Fidesz's membership of the European People's Party is at stake, or that EU funds continue to arrive on Hungary, from which the oligarchs of Fidesz can steal themselves into ruins, so that Fidesz's political goals can be supported by the Hungarian and European taxpayers' assets. The point is that it is not the truth that matters to you, but what matters to you is not that the standards of the rule of law, the democratic standards, are simply met by this type of administrative court system, as you would have set it up or set it up, but what matters to you now in your power-technical bargaining is what can easily be sacrificed. We see that you are now in a defensive position, despite the fact that you have communicated a huge victory in the EP election in Hungary, we see that the atmosphere has not been so rosy. You did not celebrate here on the day after the EP election in the benches. We have seen that Fidesz expected a greater victory, we have seen that Fidesz was expecting an extreme right-wing breakthrough in Europe to have allies in its policy of destroying democratic standards, but it is sad for you and for European citizens it is encouraging that the extreme right-wing breakthrough has failed. [[Nacsa Lawrence: 6 percent!]] The extreme right-wing breakthrough was cancelled, Fidesz was below expectations. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] So Fidesz couldn't jump the bar for himself. From then on, he went into a brave slumber and retreat. From now on, he's got his tail between his ears, and as long as he's been barking at Manfred Weber and the People's Party, he's been licking them where he thinks they're most pleasant. One of these activities seems to be the procrastination of the legal freak on administrative courts, the adjournment of the introduction and establishment of Fidesz courts. But it seems that the same sacrifice on your part is the attempt to nationalise the textbook market, which, unfortunately, is a human experiment, since they continue this experiment on Hungarian society, on Hungarian children, and they have ruined the Hungarian school system, the Hungarian future, in recent years. I am pleased that your failure to Hungarian society has such unexpected, positive side effects. I am very pleased that, for example, we do not have to deal with administrative courts from 1 January 2020 at least, but we can trust for a while that they are able to think autonomously in the Hungarian court system, judges loyal to professional principles and not political instructions, and as long as that is the case, you cannot rule the whole country, while Hungarian people may still have some confidence in the administration of justice. This is why the Dialogue will support this proposal, which is one of the bright proofs of your defeat. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-117	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now the first independent Member to make a statement. I give you the floor to Congresswoman Versus Anett, please.
u2019-06-12-118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me first of all to recall our last debate on administrative courts, because it was instructive at the time. I myself was the one opposition representative who spoke in the debate of the summary amendments, and I felt in this Chamber as if I had the last word to speak in a courtroom. I knew at the time that I was right. I am right that you are about to break the principle of the separation of the three branches of power, but at least since enlightenment, you are about to break the foundation of the system of pushing a section of justice under the executive power. The problem is not that the system of administrative courts is being put in place, as it is a court system dealing with state versus citizen matters, and in this way you could practically see a step forward in the development of law in this country. But this is not what is happening, but what is happening is that the Minister of Justice is now responsible for the appointment, progress and remuneration of judges. This means that you are effectively exercising authority over a section of justice through a ministry in which the citizen could defend himself against the state, in which a company manager could defend his own company against the state institution system if it was unfair there. I knew I was right when I said you were on a very bad path. I knew that following the report of the Venice Commission, the absolution that the Hungarian Government has conducted in relation to the system of administrative courts was not enough; it is not enough to maintain the rule of law. The accusations that our fellow Members of the European Union are at the moment about serious violations of the rule of law in our country are absolutely true. On your point, these allegations are very well founded, and let me draw attention to the fact that there are still people sitting in your benches who fought to make our country a democratic rule of law, a republic. A country where the principle of separation of powers is a basic principle, and in 2019 it is not necessary to argue to opposition representatives to maintain at least the principle of separation of powers in this legal system, in which a number of crimes have been committed against Hungarian society, in which the dignity and fundamental rights of our countrymen are violated. This is what our fellow EU citizens are now not putting up with any longer. This is not an instrument of power policy. I ask you to take this situation seriously and not to make the democratic institutional system, the rule of law and the ancient principle of separation of powers a political toy. You are preparing for nothing less than to throw our country back into the pre-enlightenment era by the government exercising power over the judiciary. They can't do that! And because your peacock dance in the People's Party now wishes you to temporarily withdraw from your former intentions, that does not mean that, and I am not naive in this matter, that you will not bring back the proposal in the present form in the autumn if the People's Party does not ask you and says that it will not bring you back to the European mainstream. For the record, they don't even belong there. I've talked about this on several occasions in this room. Yes, the fact that the democratic mandate was used to break the rule of law standards, honourable Secretary of State and honourable pro-government Members, does not mean that you are part of the European mainstream. [[15.10]] It is just now confirmed that their debate on the People's Party and their debate on the European Union practically consists in you going against the values of the European Union, going against the norms of the rule of law and using democratic authority poorly. I ask you in this debate to finally acknowledge the need not to postpone entry into force, but to radically reform this bill and to leave the judicial authority in its independence. You're not ready to do that at the moment. The principle of power-sharing cannot be a political toy. This responsibility must be felt by you, and please do not make the principle of separating the three branches of power a political toy, nor make it dependent on the scene of European games. Simply withdraw from this bill. The fact that this bill is now being postponed is, unfortunately, that if the People's Party does not ask for it, you will bring this law back in the fall. But it also means that they will stay on the path on which they started, on the path to the destruction of the rule of law and the rule of law, and this will have dramatic consequences for our country in the short, medium and long term. That's what you're playing with, ladies and gentlemen of the government. Think carefully. What I'm saying is that this law is not a toy, the separation of the three branches of power is not a toy. The way you play with the People's Party and our fellow Europeans, I would also say that it is your responsibility, but our rule of law is not only the opposition, but also the responsibility of all Hungarian citizens, so we will shake the alarm even if you bring this law back, because I have no illusions, this indefinite time to postpone the entry into force will only take as long as you see that you can make peace with the People's Party, or not. Thank you for listening.
u2019-06-12-119	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, It would now be possible to make two-minute speeches per faction for one person. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any sign-ups, so let's continue to speak with the button. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind is next. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I asked for the floor because, in fact, the Hungarian Parliament is discussing a contemporary document, because this, which we are talking about, cannot be separated from the period Hungary has been living since the EP elections. In order to understand the nature of this entire age document, I think that we need to talk about the era that we are living in and in which this document was born. One word, like a hundred, has turned the world upside down since the EP elections, and the world has turned big for Fidesz since the EP elections. It must be said, Mr Secretary of State, that Viktor Orbán's calculations have not worked and that the right-wing and populist turn has not happened, which the Hungarian Prime Minister has been hoping for for years now. He always said there was going to be a rebellion, a year of rebellion. Well, there was a riot in Europe, but it wasn't the people they were expecting. Liberals and greens have been strengthened throughout Europe. Before the elections, we saw that they practically gave each other the doorknob in the Carmelite monastery to the extreme right, populist leaders; there were also those who failed within minutes. Practically from morning until evening, we heard that the People's Party was moving to the left, making a deal with the left, the liberals, throwing away its Christian roots, the pro-immigration forces in the People's Party, Soros led them, and I could list them; everyone read these different epic signs and turns that all Hungary could enjoy through propaganda. I have heard the Prime Minister himself many times, and he himself said that if he thought the People's Party would shift to the left, Fidesz would not be able to remain a member, because they would never support a, quote, pro-immigration coalition. The Hungarian Prime Minister also stated that Manfred Weber is an inadequate leader, and Fidesz will not support his appointment. And then the sobering came, and then the turn came. There was no populist advance in the elections to the European Parliament, and who became stronger, who, then? The liberals and the greens. The hoofed devils for Fidesz, the liberals and the greens. The rebellion has intensified, just not where the Hungarian Prime Minister expected it. What simply happened was that he was deceiving himself, and practically very quickly, the day after the election, a change of direction began in Fidesz. Suddenly, it became a realistic option to stay in the People's Party, and there came the escape, and here it came, which we are talking about now, to postpone the establishment of administrative courts, but there was also the abolition of advertising tax, and there was also the terrible urge for courtship that the half-government, starting from Péter Szijjártó, had done in the direction of the German automotive industry. It was quite spectacular; I would venture to say that by denying climate change, the effort Fidesz-KDNP tried to meet the car industry's expectations or real who knows? Your expectations. This whole story, which I outlined here, clearly shows that while Viktor Orbán is trying to present himself as a man of principles here in Hungary, the withdrawn defender of Christian Europe is practically nothing more than a power technician. That's it. But there's one problem: one politician can't be two at a time. Someone either goes through the principles of fire and water, if necessary, across Europe, if necessary, against the whole world, or says that I was actually a young Democrat, but now I'm a small-time, old half-dictator, corrupt, and on my part I fell under the bench between two chairs. Technically, this happened to Viktor Orbán. It was interesting to see you on the video of the Index yesterday, as you said about this situation. One of our fellow Members said that this is real politics, and this is a very interesting... [[A statement from Jobbik: Lajos Kósa.]] I didn't want to say his name, let's not say it. One of the fidesz said that this is real politics, and here you can see exactly the true nature of Fidesz. Even though you have a media empire with our money, the money of Hungarian taxpayers, even though you have oligarchs, everything you have done against this country has been done for years now, practically in this one answer that this real policy, Fidesz, has shown its true face. And Viktor Orbán has also shown his true face, because you are now trying to explain in Hungarian that you can stay in the People's Party, because your leader has completely miscalculated himself. This bill that we're talking about here is basically the backhand, it's called a 180-degree turnaround. Nothing could stop the Fides before, literally nothing. Do we remember the vote? I'm sure my fellow Members will remember. We were everywhere in this room, and you tried to push the button, and there were scandalous circumstances in the Hungarian Parliament. The Venice Commission hasn't had an opinion anywhere, but you pushed the button and voted in favour of setting up administrative courts; you didn't care about the authority of the House, you didn't care about anything; the cards weren't in there. We remember this vote exactly. That's how important it was for you to pass this proposal. And now they're sitting here, and I'm sorry, relatively few people, with their noses hanging, and they're trying to act like nothing's happened. But it happened. You've been miscalculated, and I'm very happy for you. I am pleased because they have received a hard-core feedback from the European Union that what you are trying to build here, this whole illiberal state, this European Union is not working, it is not compatible, it is not compatible. And the Hungarian people want the European Union, the European identity of Hungarians is unquestionable. You have to change. And then let's look at what exactly needs to be changed, because right now we're a centralised autocracy with some democratic scenery. Here, too, the Hungarian Parliament has been tried to be brought to its knees several times, really, we are now at the point of fighting battles in order to have some kind of word here in the Hungarian legislature. You practically raped Hungarian democracy, and the Prime Minister himself said a few years ago that he was not building a liberal state, but an illiberal state. In effect, the Hungarian Prime Minister said that the fundamental values of liberalism, such as freedom, do not make it the central element of state organisation. Although the Prime Minister very much likes to stress that the illiberal means the national state for him, the essence is the systematic elimination of the limits of power. That's what you do. And a limit of power for you is every institution, independent of central power; but a limit of power is also the one on Facebook who has been threatened by your people to kick him out of his job if he puts a like on one of Wind Bernadett's posts because you have built a state like this. This is a nightmare. I didn't live yet, but there were more Members here when such a state worked in Hungary, although there was no Facebook. It was a system of informers, life was hell in Hungary. You brought this institution back. [[15.20]] You don't need brakes and counterweights. Although the Constitutional Court is bringing him to his knees, the institution of the President of the Republic, the institutions of direct democracy, referendums, independent justice, although Viktor Orbán does not need this, prosecutorial office Péter Polt, we know exactly what kind of character, civil society, free press. The point of Fidesz is to eliminate and centralize everything in the world. This is what you are trying to achieve in the heart, in the middle of the European Union, for a Hungarian people with a very strong European identity. What were you hoping for? ! Of course they got slapped. How long did you think you could push this bike? Then let us see that if you seriously believe that you want to change anything and say that you want to stay in the People's Party, or that you want to stay in a place that is even presentable, and that you can cover up the fact that you have actually made an extreme right-wing turn and that democracy has been demolished in Hungary, then there are one or two other things. I would like the Secretary of State Orbán to take note of what else needs to be submitted, and then we will welcome him here in plenary. I'll start by saying that the name of the country has been erased from the word "summer." I continue by changing the electoral system, basically giving you a constitutional majority that does not deserve this situation numerically. They've written a new one-party constitution. There is no consensus at all in this constitution, even its name is different, that it is the Fundamental Law. The referendum never confirmed it. The Constitutional Court's licenses have been broken. We're out of parole. And what the Constitutional Court still didn't like, they took it and put it in the Constitution. A party soldier has been put in the chair of the President of the Republic, who is annoying to me because he's performing himself as some kind of green-messian, but he's actually watching the country's environmental institutions, nature protection, and ruining the country, and now the only thing that comes to your mind about climate change is the pacal stew. [[Defiance.]] The institution of referendum and social consultation has practically been abolished and made their own instrument of power. We remember when there was a referendum here in Hungary and on what subject. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: 2016!]] There are supposed to be independent institutions, but there is the State Audit Office. A party soldier has been put in charge and is playing sport by punishing opposition parties for no reason. There are the National Election Committee, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, and the Media Council is also led by party soldiers, all party soldiers, engulfed in positions. And we also need to talk about the immeasurable propaganda that is a spiritual well gauge in this regard...
u2019-06-12-121	Congresswoman, you've been talking for over ten minutes now. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Yes, and I have a constitutional license!]] but deferment of the entry into force of the Law on Administrative Courts [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Censorship!]] He hasn't said a word yet. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I'm sorry, Mr. President, what do you want?]] So I'm gonna have to tell you that if he doesn't come to the debate itself, [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Do you really want to take the floor from me?]] Then I can't do anything other than the rules of the house...
u2019-06-12-122	You look at me and you want to take the floor from me. I don't know, seriously, they're all wrong. So, we're saying that they're running a massive party propaganda on public money. I hope that Mr. Balázs Orbán will take note of what I asked him to do in order to improve the renome of Fidesz in Hungary a little bit.
u2019-06-12-123	And less personalism, Congresswoman, should be used in your speech.
u2019-06-12-124	With all due respect, Mr President, we are not in high school, this is the Hungarian Parliament, and I am talking about what I want.
u2019-06-12-125	That is precisely because we are in the Hungarian Parliament, Congresswoman.
u2019-06-12-126	I don't understand, this... [[Szabolcs Szabó: You talk to an elected representative, you say what you want in the general debate, that's all!]]
u2019-06-12-127	I'm not having this debate, Congressman. I didn't ask you, you didn't sign up for a speech. Please. I'm warning you. [[To Dr. Wind Bernadett:]] Go on.
u2019-06-12-128	Mr. President, please restore my time because you've taken a moment of my constitutionally legitimate time.
u2019-06-12-129	Go on. [[Dr. Balázs Orbán intervenes.]]
u2019-06-12-130	I'm sorry, Mr. State Secretary, then answer, press the button, this is not a dialogue, this is the Hungarian Parliament. So, we were saying party propaganda. The D.A.'s office is assisting him. Public service TV is practically the mouthpiece of your party. Balanced and fact-based information has ceased to exist. Opponents get five minutes, only campaign, but there's other people who get kicked out of there and get assaulted. Then let us continue on how you humiliated and raped democracy in this country. They basically put the free press in parentheses. There are their oligarchs, who have been squandered from state aid, and these oligarchs have practically bought a significant part of the media market. A media conglomerate of more than 450 companies has been created, which even the Competition Authority cannot control. It includes practically the entire rural newspaper market, most of the radio market, two TV channels, a lot of tabloids. Practically unlimited access to people is provided by these various party papers. Then let's talk about civilians. Civilians were practically declared enemies. I quote, foreign agents, undercover civilians. And the civilians who criticized the power were accused of serving foreign interests, serialists, and other adjectives. You've basically tried to discredit any of your criticisms. You have committed these civilians to be called a foreign-funded organisation in their external communication and, by redesigning the civil financing system, you have also emptied the freedom of association, since, to a large extent, good civilians, so to speak, have received the subsidies. There's the new money-sharing organization, the government's propaganda civilian, the CF, and the COF leader, and it's this NGO that they tolerate, and all the rest should be roughly serial, and it's called out to all kinds of enemies of all nations. Here we are now on 12 June, which in many respects will be a black day for the remnant of Hungarian democracy, because you have also identified autonomous, independent systems such as education and the Academy as a power barrier. CEU was driven out of this country. We will never forgive you for this. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's later!]] Don't yell. I'm sorry. Today, the acquisition of the MTA will begin with law, with virtually the entire organization of the Academy resisting the government's efforts to put its hands on MTA's money, the independence and autonomy of the MTA. 'Cause what's the truth about that? This is about education and scientific freedom as such in the eyes of Fidesz being a threat to power. You want subject and obedient citizens who don't ask, don't criticize, don't know, don't think. There is no CEU, no MTA, and there is no room for a lot of people to go to higher education and university, because then these people will ask you questions, such as where the money goes, why they rob us every day, why they make party propaganda on TV, and why you can't just say a 15-minute speech in Parliament. So, ladies and gentlemen, what I can tell you is that an illiberal state cannot be built in the European Union. Starting from administrative courts, any kind of overreaction that does not fit into this system must be reversed here and now, if you want to appear as a European party and want anyone to speak to you outside the far right, because if you continue to do so, there will be no space for you on the European horizon. Thank you. [[A rare applause from the ranks of independents, MSZP and Dialogue.]]
u2019-06-12-131	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Orbán Balázs, as rapporteur, whether he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On Dr. Balázs Orbán's signal:]] Yes, he does. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-06-12-132	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would reply if I had taken so many notes, although I think that we have also heard prominent speeches from the opposition and the pro-government side, and we have also heard unparalleled speeches. In view of the unparalleled speeches, I would not respond. The first was mentioned by Congressman Csaba Gyüre, and then several took the idea of what the introduction of administrative judicial action was about, on the one hand, the 19th century. In the century, then the elimination of the Rakosi system. Luckily, I had time, so I did, and I don't think it's worth starting from the textbooks in the first place, but if we're already here in the House of the country, Parliament, then it's worth starting with the parliamentary protocols. In the meantime, I sought out what was in the explanations and what was said in the debates in 1948, on 10 December, when the Communists submitted a bill on the abolition of autonomous administrative justice. I'd like to give you two examples, and I've written it out. [[15.30]] One of the ministers of justice, István Riesz, who was the author of this abolition, says:. On the other hand, popular democracy sees the guarantee of citizens' rights in the fact that the power of state is exercised by the people themselves, that the executive authority itself is also in the hands of authorities that have the interests of the people in every respect. There is no need for a separate administrative tribunal with such a view. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Allow me one more example. On behalf of Ede Hébelt, the Party of Hungarian Workers, this was said in the debate:. Today we live in folk democracy and we move towards socialism. Today, this is our state dean. As a result, it is natural today that what the government of popular democracy considers to be right cannot be changed by any judicial decision, formal or legal decision. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. László György Lukács: This MSZMP had members of the Fideszes. Mihály Varga was a member of this KIS.]] On these grounds, independent administrative justice has ceased in Hungary. Such arguments were made in favour of the fact that independent administrative jurisdiction was a basic rule of law and meant the separation of powers. That is precisely why in countries with a better history and less XX. In countries living in centuries-old authoritarian systems, there is an independent administrative tribunal because it is a minimum of the rule of law. The textbook you quoted was written in 1972 and one of your co-authors was Deputy Minister of Justice of the Rákosi era. So, again, we are here in Parliament, and Jobbik is bringing back the arguments that the Communists have brought to an end the independent administrative court. And everyone here, in such an identity of value and interest, calls on the mantras, on this train, and raises the same arguments. While if we step back a little bit, think a little bit, open up our historical consciousness a little bit, then we see that independent administrative justice is a system that does meet the requirements of the rule of law. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Manfred Weber has to explain this, not us.]] I know this is bad for you, but I would like to ask you to reconsider your position on this. The other: Mr Bellozó mentioned, who is no longer here, but I would like to mention to him that there have been such brutal violations of the rule of law - is what he said here in the Hungarian Parliament today, that we were able to reduce taxes in one day, the government and the pro-government representatives were able to reduce taxes. Oh, my God. We were able to reduce taxes in one day. Perhaps if there had been more time, you would have tried to make it impossible. That could be it. This was already the case at the end of last year in Parliament when they tried to make it impossible, for example, to increase the care fee. This has, therefore, already been done. So, in any case, the parties of government, within the limits of the laws, have to make use of the possibility of an exceptional procedure, in order to be able to transfer their tax reduction policy. But I do not think that this is a violation of the rule of law. Congresswoman Bősz Anett and others have also mentioned how it could have been that the autonomous administrative courts had been managed by ministers from an administrative point of view. Madam Congressman, if this were a problem and the situation would be as dramatic as you said, then your party or you should suggest that Hungary leave the European Union. Because I inform you that we are members of a political community where we have Member States with us, so together with Hungary, where such systems have been in place for decades. What you criticized is the same at the moment in Austria, the Czech Republic, Estonia and Germany. There is no trick in this, because, again, in a normal parliamentary democracy, it is that the courts are independent in judgment and that they work in an independent administrative model from an administrative point of view or in the subjection of the Ministry of Justice, on the one hand, from the traditions of the countries and, on the other hand, from the decisions of the parliaments there. All models are acceptable. And what Congressman Bence Tordai did not understand is that this is important because if the system works in an independent model, then you, as Members of Parliament, cannot interpel the Minister in terms of administrative responsibility. If the minister is under your command, the minister can be interpelled by you. The traditions of parliamentarianism may not be important for hundreds of years, let us say, to Congressman Bence Tordai, but I think it is an important guarantee that we must respect as a general principle. I certainly do not think, Congresswoman, that we should be upset and demand the rule of law proceedings against Germany, Austria, the Czech Republic and Estonia. We just expect that when we want to introduce a similar thing, they should not demand such proceedings against us. My fourth point is not of a legal nature, but of a political nature. I always welcome it with great and great interest, and we are all very, very interested in the comments made by opposition representatives on European party affairs, in particular on the People's Party, but I would like to ask that everyone in party matters should be in their own home. This was said on the left very, very many times, on the left, who also campaigned with Vice-President Frans Timmermans in the election campaign. I think that you, who are sitting on the left, could accept Mr Frans Timmermans as the next President of the European Commission, because you were campaigning with him, obviously. Well, this Mr Frans Timmermans said things that Europe and the European Member States must move in a multicultural pro-immigration direction, and if this does not please the countries of Eastern Central Europe, then they will get used to it. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] Then they'll get used to it. So Frans Timmermans says that if we want to live the way we think is right, and as Hungarian voters support it, Hungarian citizens cannot. Then we'll get used to it. And you supported this man as a candidate for committee president in the campaign, and you continue to support him. I think this is outrageous and the disregard of Hungarian voters. Parliamentary election results were not created by accident, and government parties were given greater authority and less authority on the opposition side. We say, and it continues to be so, that if Manfred Weber does not want to be President of the Commission with the support of the Hungarian Government, we will not be able to support this request. But we don't support Frans Timmermans either. And we expect you, if you can put it this way, not to support Commission candidates who want to take Europe's future and Hungary's future against the will and decision of the Hungarian people. We believe that this is unacceptable, and instead of dealing with the People's Party, we should be sweeping it on their own doorstep. Thank you very, very much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-133	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman Anett Bősz, I would like to say that there is no possibility, that was a closing, and after the closing, there is no way to speak. I asked several times whether anyone had any more questions, comments, plans to speak, but no one came forward. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have until 4 p.m. on Friday to present the amendments. There will be a general debate on the bill on the amendment of individual laws to the protection of the built and natural environment and to the protection of cultural heritage until closure. The government referral is T/6350. On the House's IT network, it is available to everyone. I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Tuzson, Secretary of State of the Prime Minister's Office, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2019-06-12-134	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We have a bill on our table that consists of 60 sections and amends 13 laws. It contains comprehensive clarifications that have been induced by recent experiences. [[15.40]] The primary aim of this law is to help municipalities to make use of their development opportunities and to make it easier to do so, so simplification rules are included in this bill. These simplifications concern the development of the regulatory environment, so they should be able to do so as easily as possible and make it clear that regulations which are implementing regulations relating to the law can be applied and make the environment for the creation of regulations simpler. Allow me to give you some examples of the law on this matter. These include, for example, the amendment of the Real Estate Register Act. We have a fundamental objective in relation to the real estate register, which means that the real estate register should be governed in all respects as a public register in Hungary. I put it this way because there are traditionally several public-credit registers in the Hungarian legal order, but the consistency of these public-credit registers must also be established in all respects. This is also included in the previous legislative amendment, which made it compulsory for these amendments to be made ex officio. Now it will be possible for the property owner to ask for this amendment, i.e. to help the unit, the unit between public-credit registers, to be established as soon as possible. The registration of buildings under local protection in the real estate register is an old demand from the municipalities, which is now being fulfilled by this bill, which, moreover, can be done free of charge by the local authorities by amending the construction law. The Regional Planning Act was adopted by the Parliament in 2018, and since then there has been a lot of experience with this law, these experiences that we would like to incorporate in the legislative process the experiences of the application of the law, and we would like to bring the local government's needs that have come up since then to a legislative level. The needs have been raised on the basis of family support, economic and tourism considerations, and accordingly, bearing in mind, of course, that our natural environment must also be protected and protected, we want to simplify the rules for the designation of areas intended for installation, as well as the pre-emptive right for local authorities to facilitate the work of the Balaton coastal properties. The law also amends the law on the Normafa park, there is a reconstruction and development of a historical sports area, but we also consider it important to specify the parameters by which the individual properties can be built, such as the construction of the land or the height of the building. In addition, the law contains clarifications in the list of the properties concerned, certain properties are included and certain properties are excluded from this package. The Mining Act also needs to be amended. In the case of surface-grown mining sites, these plots shall be indicated in the settlement plan until the technical operational plan has been adopted, while requiring mining owners to make the mining sites suitable for recycling for the purposes set out in the urban planning plan when the cultivation, mining activities have been completed. The law on national assets is also being amended. This includes a simplification of how public areas, public parks, public roads owned by the Hungarian State and owned by the municipality are transferred from the municipality's property to the property of the State or the property of the State, if any, to the property of the municipalities; this is allowed free of charge by the law, with no change of function, of course, no change of functions, and the functions which these properties have already fulfilled must continue to be filled. The Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage already provides an opportunity to determine the legal fate of the highlighted national memorial sites, i.e. who will own them. By the way, a prominent national memorial is Kossuth Square, and this property in the management of the Parliament's Office is state-owned by virtue of the law. The memorial place of national solidarity, which is located near Kossuth Square, will also become a prominent national memorial place, and thus will be placed in the administration of the Office of Parliament as state property. The World Heritage Act will also be amended. Clarifications are being made here and some simplifications are being made so that the implementing regulations can be properly interpreted. The management plan, which is part of all world heritage sites, should therefore be drawn up to determine the exact content of these management plans in this law, if the Honourable Parliament accepts this, and this law will give the determining authorities the opportunity to formulate professional requirements as guidelines and thus facilitate the process of applying the law in the future. The development of Budapest and the agglomeration is also a priority state task, and in an ecological sense we need to make certain changes, since it is obvious that the boundaries of the settlement do not coincide with the ecological boundaries. Therefore, in the case of woodling, it is not necessary to insist on wooding within a district, but to adapt it to the property. Thus, where timber is harvested, the possibility of wooding within a kilometer of the area of the property should be provided for this is a more reasonable and ecologically correct rule than the previous regulation, while the law also provides for the obligation to replace wood to a greater extent than before in cases where wood is cut up for a construction. Previously this figure was set in the diameter of the tree, now it is defined as 150 percent of the diameter of the tree, so the regulation will be much stricter than before. Dear Parliament, The above therefore also represent a kind of administrative burden reduction, a simplification for citizens, helping to improve quality of life in Hungary, and the social goal that, I think, must be our common social goal in order for Hungary to become one of the most livable countries in Europe in the coming years and decades. Well, this bill also facilitates this process. Accordingly, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-135	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Witzmann. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-06-12-136	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The legislative proposal submitted by the Government proposes a total of 13 amendments to the law and intends to make a number of legislative amendments based on its overall nature. Mr Secretary of State has already discussed a number of laws in detail here, and I will try to report to you on some of the most important amendments that I consider to be more important. The amendment concerns, among other things, the regulation of the built environment, for example, by the Law on Construction or the amendment of the Law on Normafa; it affects the protection of the natural environment, for example, by amending the Law on Land Planning and Property Registration; and it also affects the regulation of the cultural heritage protection system, for example, by proposing amendments to the Law on the Protection of World Heritage and Cultural Heritage. LXXVIII of 1997 on the shaping and protection of the built environment. The amendment of the Act contains the concept of brownfield area and the obligation to display it in spatial planning plans. Building on these rules, it is possible to start transforming areas that have become degraded, typically contaminated with pollution, into areas that can be developed. The long-awaited amendment by local authorities will provide for the possibility for buildings declared locally protected by local bodies to appear as legal features on property sheets and thus to become widely public about the value of the building. [[15.50]] The amendment of the Law on the Historical Sports Area of Normafa Park facilitates the amendment of Budapest XII. the development of the value carrier of the historical sports area in its district. In the case of the relevant real estate area, it shall be determined which works are intended there under which territorial installation and with what maximum installation height and with which regulators may be placed. The bill also clarifies the rules for the transfer of assets by stating that all the property owned by the State and affected by the historic sports area is free of charge Budapest Főváros XII. The district belongs to the property management of the Mountain Municipality. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, The Act on the spatial planning plan for Hungary and certain priority regions was adopted by the National Assembly at the end of 2018, which was a milestone compared to previous spatial planning regulations. Since then, the law has, of course, been applied regularly by the county and municipal authorities in their work, and according to this, feedback has been received or received on the regulations which, according to the indications, have been too binding or binding the hands of the municipalities until then, and in many cases have been unduly strict regulations for them; otherwise, I have also faced them several times in my own constituency. I think it is absolutely necessary to amend these rules in order to ensure that local authorities can really decide more freely, according to their respective competences and their own perspective, on land-use issues which do not necessarily represent national interests, so that local interests and local needs can better prevail. As a member of the Parliament of Balaton, I appreciate the amendment tabled as a very positive change, as I consider it a great step forward in the case of the spatial planning plan of the Lake Balaton Region, that the public use of the shore of Lake Balaton is to be further strengthened by the law. To this end, the amendment aims to give local authorities the right of pre-emption in relation to coastal real estate, and also to promote tourism development and the possibility of local recreation by requiring the local government to designate additional green areas in the event of the designation of new development areas. The amendment to the Real Estate Register Act ensures that the real estate register and other public-credit registers mentioned this too, Mr Secretary of State, such as the contradictions between the National Forest Register Data Repository, will finally be lifted, which would also make the work much easier. To this end, not only the relevant authority, but also the real estate owner and other stakeholders at the Land Office can initiate the alignment of the farming sector and legal nature. The amendment of the World Heritage Act creates a clear regulatory environment, making implementing regulations clearer, more applicable and simpler. The bill also sets out the content of the management plan and the scope of activities that can only be carried out in the world heritage area subject to limitation. The regulation also provides for the possibility for the public authority on the world heritage issue, otherwise in consultation with the World Heritage Minister, to publish guidelines containing professional requirements on its website, thereby facilitating the practical application of the management plans. The amendment of the law on the protection of cultural heritage ensures that the memorial place of the National Assembly building at the end of Kossuth Lajos Square, like Kossuth Square, is placed in state property, namely the management of the Parliament's Office's assets, and that it can become part of our prominent national memorial sites. The purpose of the amendment is to state that the demolition and conversion works carried out for the purpose of recovery do not constitute a breach of the maintenance obligation. The amendment thus ensures that the implementation of certain legal conditions relating to the allocation of assets and the purpose of the benefit is not brought into a contradiction that renders the purpose of the benefit impossible. On July 30, 2018, the National Assembly adopted the Act on State tasks related to the development of Budapest and agglomeration, which covers the development of high-priority Budapest and major international sporting events. These tasks are quite diverse and the different groups of tasks are also very complex. In order to perform the tasks in a professional and efficient manner, this amendment of the Budapest Act allows each group of tasks to be performed by a 100% state-owned non-profit company or a 100% non-profit company owned by it. Ladies and gentlemen, To sum up, it is therefore clear that the legislative proposal in the proposal before us sets out as a priority the establishment of basic rules for brownfield areas, the establishment of a clear regulatory environment for world heritage areas, the clarification of the rules of the Normafa Park Act, the establishment of laws on the returnability of cultural goods reclaimed from the basic inventory of public collections and museums, as well as the clarification of the land use and zone rules of the law on the spatial planning of Hungary and certain priority areas, and, in addition, the inclusion of the commemorative place of National Inclusion in the key national memorial sites. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is safe to say, when reviewing the proposal before us, that, regardless of party affiliation and ideological sympathy, each of the decision-makers in Parliament must be an extremely important issue for the protection of our country's culture and natural characteristics. I therefore urge you with all due respect to support the adoption of this proposal by your votes. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-137	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Anita Kőrösi is the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2019-06-12-138	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, It is not the first time that we have met a salad law, in which we cleverly hide points that are worth at least one question mark here in the Hungarian Parliament, within the walls of Parliament. Thirteen laws are amended by this draft legislation. I would just like to recall a few sentences that Mr Secretary of State has said in his expo: the proposals made in line with the principle of simplification, in order to facilitate the lives of municipalities, the experience. It was not so long ago that there was a very long debate on spatial planning legislation on the Balaton law, and since then there has been so much experience that it is now necessary to amend this legislation again. And then let's talk about what hit my ears: integrating these experiences into the legislation along with family support and tourism needs. What kind of families do you support? I very much miss from this legislation that it has not been abolished, it has not been repealed that the government decides that it is a priority development area; it is safe to overwrite the legislation. So I understand that the support of the family is the family of Viktor Orbán, the family of Lőrinc Mészáros, or that around Lake Balaton there is once again a crowd of apartment houses. [[An intervention from the Fidesz ranks.]] I believe you, but with family support, what do you think? That there's going to be a slight change in the beach stage and a change in the green area classification of parks? We need radical changes here if we are to save Balaton, so these changes are not enough. So I am very confident that there will finally be a built environment and a nature conservation consequence that really serves the purpose of saving Lake Balaton. And then one more question, and I'm not gonna waste any more time because I think these are important questions. Once again, they have smuggled into the legislation that some issues will be decided by government decisions and government regulations, so they will again avoid the possibility of making decisions here, within the walls of Parliament. With all due respect, this is not the first time that they have not done so, because as opposition representatives we will not be able to express our opinion, but we will see in the Hungarian Gazette that new government decisions have been taken. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-139	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-12-140	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. I am generally and fundamentally always positive in the face of a salad law or a legislative amendment package that reduces charges, which simplifies procedures, which reduces bureaucracy, which puts local governments in a more favourable position, which simplifies everyday life and purifies this type of situation through mismanagement through databases that are constantly crossing the border, and also clarifies the register and the legal situation. So, basically, I would like to say that this kind of amendment is basically always closer to my heart, because I think that, in addition to the red tape reduction measures that have been taken so far, such steps are still needed to address these issues and to make the lives of people, the lives of the institutions, the lives of the municipalities simpler. This is why, for example, it is important to amend the law on levies, according to which, in the case of cultural heritage levies or areas registered in the forest stock, there will be no tax exemption in the official procedure in the future; this is also a simplification. [[16.00]] It is a pleasure to clarify the concept of the brownfield area and to clarify and simplify investments in brownfields, because I think that a local government has a great potential in such areas. We see that there have been significant investments, plant constructions in many non-county cities in recent years, and that there is obviously a need for the local authorities to be given the necessary assistance that can be made available to them in order to obtain or invite these investments. In the draft bill, Minister of State and my fellow Member Witzmann spoke in detail about several points of the National Assembly's memorial place, and, just like Kossuth Square, the National Assembly's Office will also have a memorial place for National Inclusion. We can also see the work started here, in the immediate vicinity of Parliament. I think it is important to talk more about national memorial sites, highlighted national memorial sites, not only here, in the National Assembly, but also in the media, schools and more places, so that students can get to these places, our national memorial places as much as possible, to learn about them, to have opportunities, including, obviously, the National Assembly memorial place that will be built here. I am pleased that this will cost state property, and the Office of Parliament will manage it, because we can also see that in recent years Kossuth Lajos Square has been renewed in a worthy manner, worthy of the spirit it is intended to express. Once again, it is important to ensure consistency between databases and registers. It is important that the protection of monuments is included in the property records. In many cases, we can also provide concrete examples and statistics show that this has often not happened in the past 30 years. It is important that these be on the deed of ownership and that the buildings, the real estate that this is entitled to, are properly protected. It is also important that if, thank God, we can live in a country where there are many recognized parts of the world heritage, then we will establish a link or interoperability between national protection and UNESCO protection when we are going to amend the World Heritage Act. After all, it is very important to ensure coherence here, because national protection is obviously an important and essentially a matter to be regulated within a country, but when we are talking about world heritage, it is very important that there are rules that are in line with world standards, on the one hand, and on the other hand are appropriate to protect the areas that UNESCO has given priority protection. The expansion of the Normafa park and the changes designed to enable the service spaces to be built, but also the green area to continue to grow. Also, wooding, the definition of a 150 percent strict limit in the tribal district, I think that this is an extremely welcome goal. And obviously, it is important, in connection with large investments in Budapest in the coming period, investment in sports competitions or other investments, to lay down in advance the rules for these tree replacements, and to fulfil the obligations laid down by law, both by the investor and the buyer, so that our capital will be able to become even more viable. Therefore, it will regulate that the replacement of wood must be carried out within two years of the authorisation to use the specified quantity. So I think that this will also contribute to the purification of the air in Budapest and the cityscape in Budapest, and I also consider this amendment to be of particular importance. As my fellow Members have said, these 13 legislative proposals include partly technical amendments, partly important progress, simplifications, tax cancellations, reduction of bureaucracy, and, as such, our group can support them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-141	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-12-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. And Congressman Nacsa's sentences were so encouraging that it was now enough, and now she thinks that it really cannot be done so elegantly, that we are throwing 13 laws on Parliament's table, and out of these 13 we are starting to raisins, what is really defendable, is really about what seems rational in some way, and we are saying that this whole thing is, as it is, perfect. I don't know how much time I have, but there used to be a cowboy joke like that, an anecdote like that, how the cowboys are at the counter, and one of them says, look, I really hate that cowboy over there. Which one? The one with the hat. But all five hats! The one with the fancy gun. They all have fancy guns! He's gonna start shooting them all, and he's gonna be a cowboy. What about that one? I really hate that. So, you can't do that there's a hundred things here, and I'm about to talk about some of them, which I think is unsuitable, and you're pretending it's all actually quite fair. I just don't understand how this happens when you're sitting there, so how it happens in the Ministry. Or I don't know, Mr. Secretary, how you are. Someone's coming, and they're saying there's something like that, and there's a couple of things for me, so put it in there somewhere in the middle, in case they don't notice. Okay, we're not strong, and we'll be able to say that we want to vote for Timmermans, and I understand that... [[Intercom from Jobbik: Weber!]] Definitely not Weber. But let's just stop. And how embarrassing is it, my fellow Member of Balaton, that you are really going to have the expose of this law in the general debate? ! You have now given your name here to actually increase the capacity of Balaton waterfront areas to 15 and 50 percent. The waterfront is reduced to 500 metres. In addition, they allow 50 percent installation on the waterfront. He really thinks he's gonna go home and tell the neighbors, the voters that he's okay, no problem. Someone bought this a couple of years ago, and it's gonna be a beach, and it's gonna be great for everyone, and then someone comes along and slips into a 13-part law saying that it's actually possible to build an apartment here, and it's gonna be great, because we're gonna have our own 500-metre runway to the water. So let's not think that 500 meters is because it's a restriction, big cheese, nobody's gonna be able to get in there. The 500 meters will mean that this suite will actually have its own little stretch, well, don't go right into the water. By the way, I think it's completely justified, so it's perfectly normal. So, let's really stop because there was a joke in old party times that anyone who agrees with Comrade Brezhnev could lay down one hand. So you can put one of your hands down and stop making this kind of comment in this House, because it's really incredibly embarrassing. The other is that there is this, when local governments voluntarily and singing their hand over territories, they almost beg to take something from Normafa and Elizabeth Square away from them, don't they forget to talk to the mayor. The President of the Republic sends back evidence of courage, and, of course, you immediately vote, not once again asking the capital, and once again no one says anything about this matter. Now Congressman Nacsa has told us that they will infiltrate some things on Normafa, and the green surface will grow. Why don't you explain that to me? Now the norm is green, I think. I don't know how to do it, but where it's not built, it's mostly green. If you're building something on it now, unless you're thinking it's gonna have a green top and actually the green surface index doesn't change, then I just can't understand what you're thinking. And then there's this little thing, and I don't want to bring in an actual policy right now, but here they quietly brought in a government commissioner like this in Budapest. And, as the betterman said, there's a regulation to regulate his authority. You're not thinking of losing Budapest? And then comes the small regulation that Budapest government commissioner will actually be able to do everything instead of the municipality. So, there's a lot of ways to limit the municipalities that you've been doing here and done over the past few years, that's what it's all about. And don't be like that, I beg you, you're proud to put these things in 13 laws. [[Attila Mesterházy: That's right!]] Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-143	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Zsolt Gréczy. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-12-144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, It is not so easy to speak now, because Gyula Molnár explained in such an eclectic and colorful way that the problem here is that it is difficult to sum up DK's position after that, because he said what we think he probably said more colorful than I would have planned, but consider this, Congressman, as recognition. [[16.10]] So the point is, it's not enough to say that we're protecting cultural heritage, it has to be. The problem here is that this whole story fits in with what you think about environmental protection, green policy, global warming and everything. There is a long list of areas in Hungary and Budapest where trees were cut down from Bocskai Road to other areas, for example, without blinking. Suddenly, the residents woke up on a Sunday morning to bzzz, and the machines did this on Sunday morning, and the trees were gone, and no one knew what it was about. So this is a very serious problem. Another serious problem is indeed the case of Lake Balaton. You read news that protected reeds are being exterminated in order to build and create residential areas there. There were people near Fidesz, Lőrinc Mészáros may be called such, who bought significant land and more in these regions, in the Balaton virtually all around the territory. I'm not even going to Club League right now. But the point is, from now on, they're even more in danger than they were before. This means that the new rich world of Fidesz will build new palaces for itself there, and then they will spend some time there, while even those free beaches are in danger, where small Hungarian tourists will try to spend a few days on vacation with roughly one handle and a cooler and an umbrella. So, it's a fundamental problem. This time, again, you, embedded in 13 laws, in a salad law, create an opportunity for the construction industry, by the way, obviously for the construction industry that will serve you, and for the Fidesz business circles, which will further reduce the green surface, and will practically deprive the Hungarians of new green areas in the costume of heritage protection, which, in view of the environmental impacts on the country, we consider Hungary to be particularly dangerous. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-145	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Csárdi Antal. Here you go. You have the floor.
u2019-06-12-146	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Well, I'm sorry, my face is breaking down... [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] That Mr. Secretary of State in his exposé of this bill dared to say on his lips that ecological aspects, then, seriously, I took my breath back. (Development in the ranks of the opposition. ) Because Parliament's work over the past years has taught us many things, including that the title of the laws submitted by the Fidesz government is mostly misleading, its title cannot be deduced from either the content of the law or the real intention. The Orbán government has completely ceased to speak straight, to name things, and to submit laws or amendments to laws in which the title, the intention of the legislator and the content are consistent and, not least, they represent a public interest. Fidesz legislation and legislation have fallen so low that it has become a legitimizing tool for private interests and power manipulation instead of serving our future, the future of Hungarian people, the country and the expansion of democracy. The government's legal regime has long been mocking our rights under the Fundamental Law. An excellent example of this introduction is the bill before us. The essence of the salad, consisting of the amendment of 13 major laws, is to further strengthen the power and influence of NER and its prominents, their exemption from the rules, their individual interpretation and the possibility of enrichment. The law covers a large part of the sphere of activity of the Fidesz empire, except for the fields of production, because it is now in the hands of the right person. Here I ask you to quote the, the appropriate, from the chief of the minutes. The stakes are now as follows: Buda Palace quarter, Normafa project customization, all Budapest development in one hand until 2030. We have the municipal election on our hands, and if not from anyone else, it is perfectly clear from this bill that you are not confident about the municipal elections in Budapest. They can't be confident because of such laws, please respectfully. The supervision of Budapest and the agglomeration in Budapest of what and which companies can be implemented; the commercial privateisation of Lake Balaton, which my fellow Members have already talked about; the degreasing of discharge, the lifting of the ban on the disposal of only state and municipal owned and unfit assets; the further centralisation of development and implementation; the relaxation of public and public procurement obligations; additional authorizations to cut down trees, to carry out international sporting events and facilities beyond force and beyond what is necessary; the removal of existing regulations on the spatial placement of the country's infrastructure elements, roads, high-voltage lines. But let's go in line, let's take a look at this in detail. In the case of an amendment to the Mining Act, it would appear useful to establish or extend the mine mine site in a horizontal manner if the relevant requirements are met and, after the mining activity has been completed, the recycling target for the areas used corresponds to that set out in the settlement arrangements. What a pity is that, according to the proposal, only this does not automatically include the previous requirement to implement landscape planning, to restore damaged land, to restore damage. We know the appearance and effect of the surface mines, but for some reason, this is the most expensive element they've forgotten. When amending the World Heritage Act, how should we understand that the competent authority may then publish on its website guidelines containing requirements to be validated in the course of the administrative procedure and that guidelines or amendments thereto require the prior approval of the Minister for the Protection of Cultural Heritage? What is this if it is not a question of expertise and an attempt to control authority decision-making manually? However, national wealth cannot remain intact, and it could be a good thing that the state and the municipalities could transfer ownership of national roads and artworks, spaces and parks owned by them free of charge to the benefit of the other, if we did not know what kind of power and funding the government held the municipalities in. Let's just think about the case of City Park, and probably if I had a little more time, I would have a long list of examples for Budapest alone, and I hadn't gone any further. It is only a foam on the cake that property acquired free of charge from national assets cannot be disposed of for only 15 years after the acquisition of ownership, yes, and that the breakdown or conversion made in order to achieve the purpose of the benefit does not constitute a breach of the maintenance obligation. Well, please... [[To interrupt Bence Tuzson:]] You'll explain, Mr. Secretary, I'm sure. The amendment of the Law on the Historical Sports Area of Normafa Park effectively overrides the development ideas discussed over a long period of social consultations, stating that settlement arrangements for the historical sports area should be applied with the derogations provided for in this Act. The new regulation expands and softens the scope of constructions, buildings and construction restrictions in the area of Normafa, and brings a whole new number of local land into the list of areas concerned. All this goes against the local people's will, but we know that nothing matters to Fidesz. And if you look at me so surprised, Mr. Secretary of State, I suggest you contact the local government and the political communities in the district, and then you'll understand what I'm talking about. As a direct follow-up to the salad law, which was adopted last year in connection with the development of Budapest and the agglomeration, the government took another step. The basis was that the coordination of the government's developments in Budapest, so to speak, became the responsibility of the Prime Minister's head of the Prime Minister's Office. Why would the capital or its inhabitants have a say in this? Here again, I must recall that you are trying to break the independence of Budapest, the local government in Budapest, because, among other things, you are afraid of losing the municipal elections. [[16.20]] But if you don't lose it, I would like to say that this current leadership shouldn't like it either, and I understand that there is a central leadership within Fidesen, and that it will be arranged behind closed doors, but in this city, with respect, there are two million people living, and these two million people have rights, and, yes, we don't take kindly to it when such a salad law breaks it down. The current amendment complements the political influence of the government and improves the efficiency of the built-in cash pump, inter alia, by establishing a hierarchy of so-called non-profit companies, which may transfer official permits, contracts and taxpayers which have been obtained as a result of the impact, without any additional public procurement obligation on the recipient in the event of the transfer of the contract. I think that those who have seen public procurement and high-priority public investment understand exactly what the risk is. All of this reduces the powers of the future mayor and local government, on the one hand, and on the other hand, they gain a huge degree of freedom in terms of public licensing, public procurement, execution and investment. This is also true, I repeat, if István Tarlós remains the mayor of Budapest, and it is also true if the Mayor is called differently from 2019. This is not a political issue in principle. It's a mockery of the local government. But the law also strikes the trees in Budapest, as if it were not enough that hundreds, perhaps thousands, of valuable trees, fell victim to the embedded dream world of Fidesz in a few years in Budapest and across the country. It is worth just going through these areas, where Fidesz-KDNP has invested in priority investments, we have seen the gross mutilation of green areas everywhere, from Városliget to Baross Square, at XI. Through the district, such an example can now be given from virtually every point of the city. In the case of plant development projects, the rules of the existing Government Decree on the protection of wooded plants and the municipal government's decree on the protection of trees and wooded plants should be applied with derogations for the replacement of wooded plants. Speaking of which, it's the World Athletics Championship of 2023. The people of Budapest said they didn't want to have an Olympics, but you don't really care about that. It's okay, we'll bring an athletic contest, we'll bring everything, we'll have sports, sports, stadiums and all kinds of sports events. With great respect, I would ask the government to focus more on education and health, because in the same Budapest, where you would like to organise an athletic world championship out of billions of serious forints, where you would like to organise an Olympics out of thousands of forints, three out of four hospitals could not give you a weekend on call. So I would like to signal to my fellow Members that the direction is wrong. But it is not enough that according to the Act passed through 2018, the government of Budapest's capital city and the Budapest I. district municipality of Budavár transferred a number of properties to the property of the Hungarian State and the management of companies free of charge, so that the Prime Minister's dreams in Buda can be fulfilled. There we are now, with all due respect, that the municipality must suffer further loss of wealth. On the basis of personal concerns, allow me to make a comment that this may not be the way to punish, or perhaps it would not be necessary to punish those living there just because they have not chosen a Fidesz potentate. I think that there is no need for these types of changes living in the constituency. If you'll take the trouble to contact me, I'll be very happy to take you through the constituency, from District I to District VIII, IX. Through the district, downtown, and I'll tell you what you need, which is really important, which wouldn't destroy you, but build you. Dear Secretary of State, Unfortunately, this phenomenon is not limited to the Palace District of Buda. The amendment complements the government's key power to establish an investment regulation in Budapest. The government is empowered to manage the key developments in Budapest by a government commissioner, to establish the content of the investment management law in a regulation, and to complete them by preparing and implementing the 10-year Budapest urban development plan for the period up to 2030, including, of course, international sporting events, because that is what we need and their investments. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I understand that you would like to present through sporting events what successful governance you are in this country. I believe that's already worked out for XX. In the first half of the century, a well-organized sporting event could increase the popularity of the current government, but with respect and humility I would like to point out that there are more important and important problems both in my constituency and in Budapest and in the country. Instead of opening wide doors to these investments, without ensuring transparency, it would be more important to address issues and problems that are indeed a problem for the people who live here. Don't plan sports events and special investments related to them and force them on Budapest, but solve educational difficulties, solve health problems, or simply get rid of the parking mafia. I think that if funds and money were spent on this, everyone would be more satisfied, and you would be more popular in Budapest, yeah, and then you wouldn't have to worry about not winning the municipal election in 2019. I think it's a bill that you can't support, let alone support. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] "Maybe Other is Politics, this bill should be revoked. Thank you very much for the floor.
u2019-06-12-147	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group, Mr Kocsis-Cake Olivio. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-12-148	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, allow me to make a technical comment. I would be happy if the rapporteur would answer not only at the end, when we no longer have the opportunity to react, but also here in the debate, because it would not be a series of monologues, but we would actually get a meaningful reaction. I am trying not to repeat my fellow Members. I agree with pretty much everything they've said, and they've analysed the bill in detail. Let us start by saying that there are indeed good proposals in the amendment, but probably just to cover up the very problematic amendments. I'm a new guy here in Parliament, but I'm used to that. The proposal favours brownfield areas for installation. This is obviously a good direction, although it would have been better if the government had used it in the City Park, for example, because there was a brownfield project near the former government district, the Western Railway Station, which could have been built in the museum district, which would have been more suitable than the first public park in Budapest. The amendment also slightly tightens the obligation to supply wood in Budapest. Obviously, that's okay, though, for the record, wooding isn't the answer to the problem either. It's not so easy to cut down an indigenous tree and replace it. Due to the changed climate, indigenous species also grow much harder and slower, one of them does not grow, so many times these trees, which we cut down, are irreplaceable. [[16.30]] I'm pretty much done with the good stuff here. However, what is unacceptable and worrying is the first in the Normafa sports area to build a 500-metre, 15-metre high-life building, and not a life of faith. This is about relaxing the construction regulations, as previously 300 square feet [300 sq m] and 7.5 meters [7.5 m] tall buildings can be built. This is obviously not a good direction. What is interesting is that earlier in 2006, local civilians said that this new structure would unduly increase the burden of this already overcrowded area. Instead of building the building, the local mayor, who was a Fidesz mayor, agreed on a plan for an open-air religious life. Now it seems that this amendment does not take into account the proposal of local civilians, which was agreed with the mayor. I ask the Secretary of State where the civilian opinion is and take it into account. We've arrived at the most critical parts of the law amendment. What we're seeing is that they're giving us another loophole to destroy Lake Balaton, and I'm not talking about pre-emptive rights. According to the new amendment, an area designated for conservation protection but not yet protected should not be included in the World Heritage List. It's a step backwards from before, I don't know why that's necessary. So be nice, Mr. Secretary, and explain this, because we really don't understand. It is proposed to increase the capacity of the Balaton coast by regulation. This must have been ordered by the concrete lobby. We hope that local referendums or local referendum initiatives, such as those in Keszthely recently, can be prevented. The area of camping on the shore of Lake Balaton can be increased to 15 percent from the previous 4 percent. We are still confused about the need for this. Also, for non-waterfront land, installation increases to 50 percent. This will obviously mean the installation of green surfaces. We don't understand what it's for. To sum up, it would be good not to represent the interests of the concrete lobby in a natural, environmental protection law, but in environmental protection. The Dialogue faction will certainly not be able to support this proposal, but we hope that the Secretary of State, who has now left, can give reassuring answers to these questions. I'm sorry, he didn't leave, he's here, and then maybe we can support him. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-149	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible to speak to the first independent Member. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind is next. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-150	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This law is absolutely shocking, that in the middle of the summer they are trying to push a salad law through parliament that is clearly an extra reward for their own oligarchs. You have talked about improving people's quality of life here. No, I didn't. Here they worry about the quality of life of the NER knights, they worry about the favors of the government, their power, their money will grow if this bill goes through. I can only quote Antal Csárdi. I also think it's a pretty amazing brazen thing to do. They're talking about simplifications and the recent experience of telling you that a package like this needs to be dropped off. So let me get two things straight. One is that the salad law itself is not a demanding form of legislation. They're basically putting everything together in a bill, and it's good that if there's good things and a lot of bad things in it, and the opposition representative says no because, let's just say, there's so much death in it, you can go on public television, right? I can't go in there, and you can tell me that Bernadett Wind voted off that excellent proposal. But he doesn't add that there were ten or fifteen more deadly sins and sins in the same bill. That's what sports are made of. This one's the same. There are some good things in there that Olivio just said, but basically all the other abuses with everything we love, with respect. They talked a lot about Lake Balaton, and it's summer. A lot of people want to get to Lake Balaton for a week, let's say enjoy a free beach, because paying people are pretty expensive. So what I see in this bill and I am very surprised at is that our fellow Member Witzmann stands by this proposal that residential properties and various residential parks will be able to reproduce in a fungus way on the shore of Lake Balaton, which will give some of the wealthier people in his comfort zone a sort of increase in comfort, and all the others will be able to see water from beyond the fence from somewhere else. As your people, all kinds of oligarchs lurking near the Prime Minister, have put their hands on the entire Balaton, I think that many of us are not only boiling our brains because of the panic, but because it is infinitely outrageous. And now they want to give them another gift. That's what's in this bill. But there's a lot of pretty amazing things in there: the Buda Palace district, we know that half of Fidesz lives there now. There's the Norma tree. My fellow Member Nacsa, come back to the room and explain to me, because this is not what I learned in my physics class, that if there is a particular surface and there at the same time increase the capacity and the green surface, it does not fit together. [[Bence: Yes, you can.]] It'll be two Norma trees, not one. [[Tuzson Bence: That's silly!]] Or what? How are they gonna handle this? Why don't you teach me how this works? My fellow Members, Mr Molnar, have been asked. Explain to the opposition how this project will be implemented. Let's get to it. Here, nearby, they're taking a street into state property because it's a national union. In better places, though... They're building a monument they didn't apply for. Technically, we have to acknowledge that it's going to be built there. This is also an interesting way of raising the nation's belongings. But centralization, relaxation of official obligations, goes through a lot of places on this salad law. The tree cuttings. I can also say that if possible, you do not want to use the word "organic" yourself. It doesn't suit you. The point in this bill is that when trees are cut down somewhere, they shouldn't be there, they'll plant trees. [[Tuzson Bence: That's not what's in it!]] That's what I'm talking about. That's what the bill says. One kilometer. It's in there, read it, fellow Member. They're giving us a freer place to do this. And that's where the mines are. I'd like to ask you who this mining section was made for. Who's in NER right now, so...? Help me, I want to understand. Who are the ones who have put in the need to make entrepreneurs' lives easier on mines? We'll find out soon enough. Well, lighten your conscience and tell me now what this is all about. The agglomeration in Budapest. You know, I live there, so I'm starting to worry. What can I do? We'd like to understand exactly what this is about. What we've decoded here in several places is that if, say, we need a power overhead line, they're gonna put it there, we're not gonna have a lot of say-so, because if we understand this salad law right, that's what it says. We've done this before, by the way. But I'd like to understand what else they're planning with the agglomeration, because Fidesz doesn't want to solve ecological problems, I'm relatively sure after all these years. I also agree with those Members who see in this bill that you want to reduce the competence of the capital, so that if the opposition wins in the capital, then they can keep the city under control from government positions, preferably regulations. Don't let that happen. That's outrageous. That's not how it works. It's transparent, it's in this bill, we can see it clearly. The fact that there are assets that are supposed to be prohibited from being disposed of will be exonerated by you and made practically freely available... here, too, I am very curious to see which oligarch will benefit from this. For my part, I can say that after this debate, there are more questions than you have answered. Clearly, the entire opposition was united in the fact that we can see through the situation: there are nuclear bombs in this bill package, and this is practically another ner ride-off. Today we talked about administrative courts, about backing out of it. We're gonna talk about it because they wouldn't take it off the agenda that they wanted to take down MTA. They tried to slip a bill like that between the two of them, saying that you'd suddenly become a green couple. Be kind, Mr. Secretary of State, stand up and tell us who the names of the people who have submitted the bill to you. Fidesz is, I think, the most corrupt party in Europe, but in Hungary it has never been like you. We'd like to know who submitted the bill to you. One more thing, fellow Member Tuzson. I've been wanting to make an appointment with you as a congressman in your individual district for months. You serve this country as a poster boy, not just as a secretary of state. If you're already stacking a position [[Nacsa Lőrinc: This is not the debate!]] Then be kind, take your time and make an appointment for the voters. I am, in particular, and I would like to consult you on the issue of the Fotian children's home, but you refuse to respond to my phones, letters, nothing, so I would like to ask you to welcome me in front of the public of the country on the issue of children in Fót. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-151	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Then we will continue with the push-button login speeches. Mr Mihály Witzmann has spoken again. Here you go, Congressman. [[16.40]]
u2019-06-12-152	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Many have found me here in this debate, so I think it is appropriate to answer these questions. My fellow Member from Jobbik, Anita Potocskanyé Kőrösi, and several speakers also referred to the salad law with some tone or negative indication. This is a good legislative practice. It is called the Salad Law, when certain amendments concern more than one law, then they must be combed together, and this is to be followed by the adoption of a salad law, the debate and the negotiation of a salad law. So I don't think there's anything pejorative about this. What I do not understand is that, in response to the opposition speeches, when we are talking about the facilitation of the payment of taxes, the reduction of taxes in some legislative package, or the reduction of bureaucracy, the reduction of administrative burdens, the improvement of administration, or the simplification of the work of the municipalities, the simplification of people's lives and the making of simplified decisions, why is this a criticism for the opposition? I didn't quite understand this, but it's likely that there are some of us here in the pro-government benches. Experience: yes, experience comes in to the government, the government at all times. There are two kinds of governments. One who responds to these experiences, these needs and these requests, and tries to adapt and adapt the legislation to life, this is the government at the head of Hungary today, fortunately. And there is a government who doesn't give a damn about these comments, and it continues on its own, and we saw its time in Hungary before 2010. And that is why we really need to make the amendments that life overrides in many cases and that are designed to make life simpler. The small hidden tricks that pose serious dangers in this package of laws are the problem of not hearing very much concrete ones. At least I've been trying to watch, I've recorded a lot of things. I'll get to the specifics right away, and I'll answer that, which, of course, I know, but these father-in-law tricks or hundreds of tricks to quote a great classic, I didn't think I'd discover them. I would also like to respond specifically to the Balaton. Since 2010, you must have noticed, too, who are trying to do their job as opposition representatives, that Hungary has taken a completely different course since 2010. It has made progress, economic growth and economic development have been achieved. Nevertheless, of course, the desire for investment has also increased in the country. Investment has increased throughout the country, but also in tourist destinations such as Lake Balaton. I think that precisely, if there is an important mission of spatial planning and spatial planning regulation, it is precisely to find a healthy balance and create a growing investment spirit and, by the way, to protect the natural landscape and our built environmental values. Well, that's exactly what this legislation is trying to balance. There may be some flaws, I don't doubt that. [[Attila Mesterházy: No way!]] I only lacked constructivism in opposition speeches; that they would tell me exactly what, how, and if there is any financial implications, how they could ensure it. Of course, I wasn't surprised because there was more talk here in the speeches about municipal elections than about the proposal itself. Just in parentheses: I don't know, I think Fidesz-KDNP has won every national election in Hungary since 2010. I don't know what that confidence is for. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Wow, you're so confident!]] Members of the opposition. If you're just looking at the recent... [[Dr. László György Lukács: You can't trust... Lőrinc Nacsa: The truth hurts.]] The Orbán government won the third two-thirds in 2018 [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Who did you write this law for?]] In 2018, the current governing parties received another two thirds in the spring of 2019, although here in the midst of a great European Parliament euphoria we can see that the ruling parties received a majority in a purely list vote. So the vote didn't distort, they got the majority of the votes, in my constituency it was 56 percent. In Siófok, where our situation has been unlucky since October 2014, because pro-government politicians enjoy the criticisms of the current city leadership very often, their thanks are very rarely, there too 52.5 percent. By the way, in parentheses, if we had projected this on the Siófok relations, we would have won seven out of eight individual districts if this had been a municipal election. [[Krisztina Hohn: But it wasn't!]] And we look forward to the autumn 2019 elections with great confidence and restraint. However, of course, it can be anything. I wish it to be a celebration of democracy, as all the choices have been. Then, in response to the specifics, I will continue to work with Gyula Molnár in MSZP under Rule XI. He told me the truth about Lake Balaton from the precinct. In this regard, I would just like to ask my fellow Member to believe that I was born there 42 years ago, that I have lived there ever since, that I am from a family of Balaton coasters, and believe me, if anyone is there, then there is no need to fear Balaton. In fact, if I go further, I think that there is absolutely no need to fear the current government of Hungary. I find, in agreement with those living there, that either the municipalities, the civil sphere or the businesses see a much better opportunity today in the Lake Balaton than even a few years ago, let's say 9-10 years ago. If I had to describe in one word what we lived on the shore of Lake Balaton between 2002-2010, I would say that these were the years of stagnation. For if you were to go to a restaurant with your family, it was difficult to find a restaurant from Keszthely to Siófok, which was open during the winter season or the autumn spring season, if you wanted to go to Lake Balaton on a weekend at noon on Sunday. The fact now, ladies and gentlemen, is that you cannot find a restaurant on the shore of Lake Balaton, even during the winter season, which would not be overflowing at lunchtime. So that's something, I think it's a sign after all. If we look at the number of tourism at Lake Balaton, we can see, in contrast to the struggle between 2002-2010, that, compared to the low point in 2009, what the socialists have achieved during the governance of Lake Balaton, whether in terms of the number of guest nights, whether in terms of the volume of foreign and domestic tourists, or in terms of municipal and entrepreneurial revenues from tourism, we can say that the shift is positive from year to year. Every year, Hungarian tourism has produced record years, and it is in your interest as much as the elected Member of Parliament, as I think it is for the pro-government. Between 2002-2010, the withdrawal of funds at the shore of Lake Balaton was continuous, Congressman, under your government. There's been constant withdrawal of funds. I remember when Congressman Mesterházy handed over the adventure bath in Balatonlelle, the problem was that it was carried out by the Széchenyi plan of the government before it. You've been proud to pass this on. The only question is, how many other improvements have they been able to list under your administration? In fact, the municipalities on the shore of Lake Balaton and in my constituency were in a state of bankruptcy during this period. They were happy that they could pay the wages at Lake Balaton as well as at national level, and if they could pay the rent, they could not think about improvements, unlike the current investments. And that you do not see this, so if you do not see that you have started, we have recently launched the renovation of the Bike Circle in Balaton, if you do not see that either in the development of accommodations, in the development of paid beaches and free beaches, in the development of shipping, or in the rehabilitation of the Sió channel, in the reconstruction of the Sió lock, or in attraction improvements, in the investments in sewage, or in railway renovations, or in the development of traffic nodes and new developments such as road 76 or the construction of main road 67 or the construction of the eastern bypass between road M7 and 710, if you do not see these, then I really think it is justified that there is a criticism that there is no improvement of Lake Balaton. I think the people there will experience this in a completely different way. I am sorry that my fellow Member Zsolt Gréczy is no longer here on behalf of the Gyurcsány Party, he mentioned the Club Aliga. Well, Zsolt Gréczy came to the house for the topic, I might say, because the Club Aliga was formed in the time of the party state in the days of the present DK and MSZP predecessor party, and he actually cut the area out of Balatonvilágos so that it can be reached at the moment from the 4800 m long shore of Balatonvilágos in a total of 300 metres, in three separate small slices for public use on Lake Balaton. So it was taken in Party State times without even asking the people who lived there. Well, if we go further on the story of Club Aliga, which my colleague Zsolt Gréczy brought up, then we can see that in 2007, if I remember correctly, his current party president Ferenc Gyurcsány was perhaps the Prime Minister, during their administration, sold to a foreign company, the whole complex was hairy and skinny. [[16.50]] Aliga II, Aliga III, Aliga IV. It was sold to a foreign company. There was no municipal pre-emption right, which is now covered by this law. And Aliga I has a 49-year-old asset management contract; 49-year-old asset recovery contract. The promise of great improvements has since vanished, and we have clearly seen that these improvements have not been made. Of course, the question arises in man, of course, whether it was the right direction, that buildings that were not in any way in good condition today, tents and wooden houses that cited the quality of the 70's and 80's, which still receive the people there, or that are the right direction to try to develop these properties, whether they are local governments or business circles. The good news is that it has finally been achieved in Balatonvilágos that, thanks to the division of areas in the area governed by the original TNM regulation, the division of areas has actually taken place, and in the future we will be working to ensure that the Balatonvilágos and the guests arriving will be able to reach Lake Balaton more freely. I think I've told you everything that's come up here about Lake Balaton. Of course, I ask everyone to work together for Lake Balaton, because our national treasure is Balaton, and I think that this is not an ideological and not a strategic issue for the whole nation. If you have any questions and I can, I am, of course, still at your disposal on these issues. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-12-153	Thank you very much, Congressman. Member Antal Csárdi has also applied for a repeated speech. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-154	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Member, Mr Witzmann, Then allow me to try to correct, as I recall, the mistakes I believe you have made in connection with the judgment of the law. So this bill doesn't make people's lives easier. This bill makes life easier for investors. It's not the same thing. When, at the end of his speech, he spoke about the need for improvements, as the circumstances of the 70s and 80s welcomed the visitors, that is partly true. But the problem is... [[Michael Witzmann intervenes.]] Believe me, my fellow Member, this is where the second half of the sentence comes in, which is to say that it is not really necessary to have the circumstances of the '70s, but all these investments are interestingly associated with the mass of cutting trees, with reeds being destroyed. I'd like to ask you this question: you can ask yourself a question, and you will answer how much you have acted in relation to the destruction of reeds in several press, so that this cannot happen, so that the ecological situation of Lake Balaton does not deteriorate further. We know exactly what the ecological consequences of losing these reeds are, don't we? I believe that a sailboat port, a winter storage cattle, will look good on the shore of Lake Balaton, but neither will your constituents experience it, nor will domestic tourism feel better. So believe me, Uncle Feri, who lives on the small street next to Kossuth Square on the ground floor 2, won't be able to tell his granddaughter, whoa, guess what, Béluska, how good it was, I was down at Lake Balaton, and I saw a nice winter storage. Trust me. Whose interest do you represent? I think we should go through it. So when you're talking about making people's interests and people's lives easier by this bill, I just denied that it's not true. In addition, he said that you do not see that... let me put it in this sentence structure. My fellow Member, can't you see that Lőrinc Mészáros and the investors near Fidesz have taken over practically the entire Balaton? How can investments now be made in excess of 90 per cent only by linking the investor to Lőrinc Mészáros or to a well-known Fidesz-near investor? 'Cause then you'd have to notice that. I understand that tourism as a whole has been busy. I just have some bad news, my fellow Member: we have the budget on our hands, and the tourism that is so well-performing, the housing taxers, that I do not go further, will now become less involved in their contribution to tax revenues. You understand what I'm saying, don't you? I am talking about the fact that in a very well-functioning sector, which brings a lot of money to both our country and investors, tourism, and now we have to pay 5% VAT instead of 27%. And now, I'm guessing the government expects the price of accommodation for one night was just a long weekend and it's gonna go down by 15 percent. That's not what I'm so afraid of. What is happening is that the falling VAT, the VAT differential, will all be in the pockets of these Fidesz-near investors forints, instead of the Hungarian government reducing the VAT on basic foods during a period when the year did not rain in the first four months, and then a half-year of precipitation fell in two weeks, and now it was so hot today and until the weekend that a heat alarm had to be ordered. But it's another story. I am talking about it, and I would like you to see from this comment or this speech that you still represent sectors and investors instead of people. And I think that this example I've given you perfectly proves it. I think that if you didn't find a good-quality restaurant open in the winter and summer as a living person, then allow me to place this advertisement here to recommend the Big Nut Restaurant in Balatonszárszó to your attention. [[Mihály Witzmann: Old man!]] You're right. I'm sorry. It's an old-fashioned restaurant. So from the time I was this age, we practically always stood there to eat sardines, because it was my brothers and sisters' meal when they were six. Technically, I think it was, but it doesn't prove that there was no need for improvements there. It was extremely important that improvements were made, I just think that this should not be done on our account, on the taxpayer's account, but on the investor's pocket and invest, and if he invests in his own money, his own resources, not state aid, not state aid, not on the hand-and-out tax forints, then I think it's okay; until he destroys our future, as long as the investment doesn't reduce, for example, the part of the Lake Balaton that everyone can use. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2019-06-12-155	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Attila Mesterházy is next. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-06-12-156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I wasn't going to say anything, but I was inspired by my fellow Member Witzmann. I don't know if I'm allowed to say that I wasn't born a kilometer from Lake Balaton, but I lived in Veszprém, which is 15 kilometers, so we may have the right to comment on this debate as a northern party. If I were evil, I'd say you know what's beautiful on the south coast: the north coast. But I actually spent a lot of time around Lake Balaton, and it's important to me, too. But before I talk about it, I was thinking, when I listened to your comment on how you could be so perfect. [[Defiance.]] Thank you for being here. So in fact, in this country, when you didn't govern, it was actually hell for all Hungarians. When you came, it was heaven. Then hell, hell, heaven, heaven, heaven. [[17.00]] I do not understand how in 2002 the voters could be so wrong, and in 2006 how could they have made such a bad decision that they did not choose you. 'Cause really, whatever you guys are doing, it's perfect, there's no mistake, there's no misunderstanding, everything's fantastic. And really, as opposition representatives, so our existence... I don't know why there are still opposition parties. I think it would be best for you if you were a party of state, and then you could fight battles among yourselves within the party as before, and then you would not have to argue with opposition parties in Parliament. It would probably make your life a lot easier, but it may not be the case yet. When you spoke about the salad law, Congresswoman Bernadett Szél explained very well what the problem with salad laws is usually. I would add that your argument might have been even better and more precise at the time, that the salad law, because it actually deals with the protection of the natural environment, and the salad is green, so it's actually a good solution in this. But the problem with this law is that you listed what might be positive for an opposition representative, and Bernadette Szél and the other speakers listed what might be a problem in the salad law. Allow it not to be the opposition representatives who are saying that you are so good, really, so that part was very good, Mr Witzmann, and that is all we would like to talk about. You have experienced opposition, and I still remember that at that time you were somehow trying to point out criticism and negatives, and I am saying this without irony, in a draft law, because it is the job of the opposition to point out in a law that is not good, or in an initiative. Don't blame us for talking about what we think needs to be changed. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I was a little embarrassed because my father, a doctor, has friends with a good doctor. It's like you didn't hear every sentence the opposition representatives said. If you need an ear-nose-burner, I can recommend excellent ones in Budapest, but there are also good doctors in Siófok. As a matter of fact, a lot of things have been said, and it has also been said that what needs to be changed, only if you have selective hearing, then, of course, you miss a lot of important interesting, small, nuances, but still important issues, such as comments on the future of Lake Balaton. Two of his sentences were very true, I think, to say something positive, even three. One was that you adapt the laws to your needs. You're absolutely right about that. But on whose needs it is, I think it's possible to argue. That they didn't want to change that until Lőrinc Mészáros entered this business, everything was fine the way it was, and now all of a sudden, to gain a slightly higher profit rate, we have to rewrite these laws. But, after all, you're right, they've adapted this law to certain demands, profit interests, and the needs of friends. The other is that you see more opportunities in Lake Balaton. Well, that's also true, but the moonyard sees more opportunities in this, which is why we need to change these rules quickly. And in order to fully favour the Member at the end, I fully agree that my fellow Member, Mr Witzmann, should not be afraid of Lake Balaton. I agree with that. It's just that you're probably being used for things that you might not do willingly, but party loyalty and loyalty require you to say certain sentences. Let me share one more thought with you. It is always a recurring explanation that when there was hell here in Hungary, during the period we withdrew money from here and here, and in 2009 and 2010 people did not go to Lake Balaton, they did not buy or spend guest nights there. That minor circumstance was probably overlooked, but it is not a problem because it does not deal with foreign policy and economic policy, although my fellow Member in the Committee on Budgets is that there has been a global economic crisis. It's not a big deal, but then people around the world lived badly, and families had to tighten their belts everywhere. Imagine that not only did they not go to Lake Balaton, but they didn't buy a car or any other goods, because it didn't go well for people, because unfortunately this global economic crisis also affected Hungary. Therefore, to compare what was in 2008 and 2009 and 2010 is certainly unfair, my fellow Member, since external circumstances have a serious impact on an open market economy such as Hungary. So when we talk about cutting budget expenditure in the budget, this cannot be decoupled from the fact that it was a global economic crisis. By the way, your Prime Minister said somewhere abroad in 2010 that if there were a European Championship to reduce the budget deficit, Hungary would be a world champion in this, and he proudly said so. Then, of course, they realized that it was not a good saying, and then they had to mention the Greek way from which you saved the country, because before 10 it was hell and then heaven. For this reason, I think that it might be fairer to put it this way. Just as you said, my fellow Member, that when you told us to work together for Balaton, it would have been fair to mention the name of Tamás Suchman, because I think that as Head of the Balaton Development Council, you have done a great deal to rise that region. And I think that if someone from the MSZP, then Tamás Suchman must have been in a very high place in his heart, and there is still the Balaton and its future, and the development of this region. He certainly cannot be accused as an agent of hell of wanting to harm the region of Lake Balaton or its development there. I think it may be worth not always double standards. Or at least if we are talking about the need to think together, we should remember not only the negatives of the past, but also the fact that there have been some positives in the past. Mr President, thank you very much for this opportunity.
u2019-06-12-157	Thank you very much. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Mihály Witzmann, Fidesz Group.
u2019-06-12-158	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I promise I won't ask for another word, but I did throw the ball, saying that if there's a question for me on Balaton, I'll try to answer it. I will do so, but I will try to be brief and not to abuse the patience of this House. My fellow Member, Antal Csárdi, said that... if he does not see or understand simplification here, then I think that we are not reading one, because also Mr State Secretary, my fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa, and I have listed a number of concrete examples of these. But I would not repeat these, because these have already been mentioned in the keynote speeches, and I do not want to waste time with him. In my opinion, we must continue to take the view that this salad package, even if some say so in a pejorative sense, is indeed a means of simplifying life and increasing efficiency. Unfortunately, Antal Csárdi is not here, but he said that I should state my position on reed destructions and sailing port constructions. Well, I can give you something like that on the question of my constituency. Specifically, they wanted to build a sailing port in Siófok. I hope that Antal Csárdi will hear this somewhere during the broadcast. So they wanted to build a sailing port, and I gave my opinion on the establishment of this sailing port, otherwise I have sailed 32 years. For me, as a private person, it would have been great to have another sailing port on Lake Balaton. Nevertheless, when the NGO asked me about the construction of the sailing port, I replied fortunately that it is available in written form, it is also in the civil society organisation, and those who represented the interest group in port building, there is the letter, and I have it, that in my opinion, it is not possible to support the construction of the sailing port as it was planned there. We are very pleased, by the way, that the Government Office, if I remember correctly, did not grant permission to build this port. The whole point was that the opposition had been making headlines through all available media platforms for weeks and months. Antal Csárdi asked me for a specific example, and I tried to answer that. As far as the Véndiófa Étterem is concerned, I can only tell him that I have so many positional advantages in relation to the Véndiófa Étterem, not making advertising for him, but why shouldn't we, because it serves the services of Balaton, and I was even on good terms with the former owner and I knew him. I was trying to point out that it was very difficult to find an open restaurant before 2010, but between 2010 and 2019, we can now find restaurants open not in the main season, but also during off-season periods, but also from boarding houses and accommodations. Attila Mesterházy just came back. [[Attila Mesterházy: I didn't even go!]] I am very glad that my fellow Member has arrived, who has asked us a rhetorical question about how we can be so perfect. Well, no one said that. [[17.10]] This is precisely why I said in my previous comment that if there are any critical comments or suggestions to amend our common cause, such as the case of Lake Balaton as our national treasure, let us put aside the affiliations of the party and put together individual ideologies for the sake of these matters. But here he described it as heaven now, and before that it was hell. I was not the one who, as your former Minister of Economy, tried to make Hungarian people and Hungarian businesses and Hungarian governments believe that the Pannonian puma was jumping. I was not the Prime Minister who, as your Prime Minister, said that there was a strong economy and prosperity. Then he also said that anyone who doesn't like it can get out of here, go ahead and go. And the crisis in the world economy has been brought up by my fellow Member, and he has brought this up many times in our joint debates. Once again, I can only say that I was not the Prime Minister who said that there was no crisis, that there was no crisis, that there was no crisis, that even the wind could not reach us, and then by 2009, if you had not rushed to pick up the expensive loan very quickly in the Bajnai-Gyurcsány era to the EU and the IMF, which has since been completely erased by this government, and thus saved the Hungarian budget from huge, billion-dollar interest costs, this country would have failed, my honourable fellow Member. But I still have some bad news about this, although you said that I am not familiar with the foreign economy and foreign policy, that it was a similar state of bankruptcy to the Greeks. Let's see where the Greeks are now and where we are. However, there is something to be put on the account of this civilian governance in a positive sense that, compared to the low points in 2009 and 2010, we have managed to create a continuously developing economy. Unlike Tamás Suchman, you mentioned the name of Tamás Suchman, former president of the VFT, the difference between your former party mates and me is that if you confront me on the street, Dr. Tamás Suchman, we greet each other with proper courtesy, unlike your peers. And then I would not like to discuss the internal relations of the MSZP and the conflict sea surrounding Tamás Suchman, or the conflicts between you and Tamás Suchman in detail, because it would be worthy of him to be here with us. I guess it wasn't on the agenda, by the way. I was just trying to answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-159	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There will be two-minute speeches and a speech, because there are two two-minute speeches on the part of the MSZP Group, so I can only allow one of the speeches within a normal timeframe. I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, MSZP. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-160	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Congressman, I didn't know you were going to answer, it's quite unusual for you to be allowed to do so. If I had known, I would have joined the previous circle and repeated what we all said, that it would certainly be worth talking a little about the fact that the waterfront is 500 metres, that in addition to the 50 percent installation, within the 15 percent installation, it is in your opinion that it is in the interest of the Balatonians. I'm sure they'll come to that. That's what we've been trying to tell you over the past few years. And the other is that I was mayor, and I've had a lot of attacks, so if I were you, I'd be a little more modest with those brave sentences. You know, when a person buys an area that is a field or an unbuilt area, and then, with a decision, the power reclassifies it, and the value of it increases by ten times, by a hundred times, there must be something there, and it must be that, in general, let's say, it could be in this law, that then a settlement settlement contract must be concluded, and that the person who has this type of wealth must also serve the interests of the community in some form. The other is my final thought. What I learned when I was young is that one of the signs of intelligence is the question mark. You speak with a lot of exclamation marks, Congressman, and I think you'll be ashamed of that later. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-161	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy in a normal time frame. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, How dare I claim that Mihály Witzmann is not informed on foreign policy issues? All I'm saying is that maybe he doesn't deal with it every day, versus Balaton. So in Hungarian, I just wanted to say that we shouldn't compare things that can't be compared, even if you're tired of us saying that there was a global economic crisis, so there's a lot that can't be compared to those years. Accept it, and we're tired of you always referring to eight years, while you've been ruling for 12 years. So it seems that this is going to be a reference point, that no matter what happened, what went wrong in the last 12 years, it doesn't matter, because the only question is, where appropriate, what was in the period 2008-2009-2010. I don't know, it's just, if we've talked about foreign policy here and you've mentioned former prime ministers, let me throw the ball back in case you'd like to talk about it sometime, who was the prime minister who said Putin's finches were growing in Europe, or which prime minister said Hungary wouldn't be the happiest barracks of the Gazprom. Because I remember it wasn't Ferenc Gyurcsány, it wasn't Péter Medgyessy, it was quite a nice barracks for the Gazprom in the past few days, and I think Putin comes here as if he were coming home, or I could say, using the Orbán image that he was coming to walk his pussy in Hungary. So let's talk carefully about who said what. In fact, it could also be said that, interestingly, during the first Orbán government, Viktor Orbán did not once visit Moscow and stood in a completely different way to this relation than he did now, which is a positive change in a certain way, because Russia is certainly a reality as far as our economic relations are concerned, but that does not mean that Putin has to take over both his methods and his values. Yes, we also have family debates in the party, thank you for your life advice. As I recall, you had some arguments with the mayor of Siófok about how to get into your campaign. So there are debates in every family, they are worth solving in-house, and then there is no problem with who the Public Machine finances its campaign, for whom not, from what state orders, if any. If this has not happened, then, of course, it does not need to be dealt with; I am sure that you know the truth better, and I am only informed by press. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-163	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Bence Tuzson, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2019-06-12-164	Ladies and gentlemen, One eye cries, the other name in connection with such a debate, because things have now been said in Parliament that had nothing to do with this law and even referred to provisions that are not in this law, so in many cases I do not even know what they are talking about. But let's go through, at least the most important findings. I would like to respond to the better Member because she raised an important issue, and that is the system of family support. You know, Congresswoman, in the event that a political force, a government, considers it extremely important to provide a strong support in the family policy system, because every country, a strong country, can only have stable foundations if the families on which they are built are stable families, those families have a home, and otherwise they can grow stronger, well, then in every legislation we have to look at how we can promote the strengthening of Hungarian families and the growth of Hungarian families in that law. That is why I am referring to this law, too, that we must also establish rules on construction rules, as well as on the designation of areas, which can help Hungarian families to have a home. This was my point here, and every Hungarian family must be able to have a home in which they can raise their children in calm conditions. I think that this is extremely important. What I think is also important to note is that this law is indeed a major step forward in many respects, such as the protection of Lake Balaton. Here I am looking at my fellow Member, Gyula Molnár, who, by the way, I am shocked at his contribution, because I think you may have thought of a debate in Parliament in 2008, because you know that the rule you are referring to and what you are saying is when it came into Hungarian legislation and Hungarian legislation: in 2008, you voted for it into the legislation. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: Like this! Like this! That's right.]] [[17.20]] And this legislation is precisely about the fact that we are not able to affect the rights acquired, but beyond what was already the case, such legislation can no longer be exactly the same. So I ask that if you speak twice on the same subject in Parliament, you will give your opinion, at least do so by looking carefully at the legislation and the legal environment, because it is in this legislation that it is not possible to do this anymore. This is what this legislation is about, and it is a pity that our fellow Member of DK is not here, because he also referred to this rule, the rule that was entered in 2008 and that it can be removed from the Hungarian legal system with very hard work so that the State is not otherwise burdened with an indemnification obligation in this respect. It is very hard to eliminate them from legislation. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these issues, which you supported at the time with your own vote and included in the legislation, should not be referred to in such a debate, by the way, when you were on the other side, and the regulation that is actually coming out of the Hungarian legal system. But I would like to draw your attention to this. I would also like to say to my fellow Member, Mr Gréczy, that he was talking about unlicensed wood cuttings and that he had experienced such things. If this is what you're experiencing, you're gonna have to file a criminal report. Make a criminal report because, indeed, the protection of the green environment is extremely important. And here I would also like to refer to my fellow Member, Mr Csárdi, who, by the way, I have known from the conversation in the corridor to a reasonable person. [[Demercation from the benches of opposition parties.]] and I think that this speech that you have just said is probably not written by him, because those claims, in addition to the fact that they do not correspond to reality, contain strong exaggerations, and their style is by no means typical of you, so I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you read the legislation carefully, especially what concerns the Normafa rules. I myself, by the way, if I've already called you on this issue, is XII. I was a municipal representative in the district for eight years, so I know exactly the district, and I know exactly the will and opinion of the people in the district. And that the area that we call Normafa today can become a park in which you can really relax, and all developments go in this direction, and XII. Developments are taking place there according to the will of the people of the district XII. Developments take place there according to the will of district people [[Continued interventions from opposition representatives.]] The plan that's on the table doesn't contain certain elements that were already contained, because otherwise the district people didn't want it, but what it now contains is a forward-looking green area development that I think everyone who likes nature in some way should be supported; a rehabilitation that isn't just XII. it is important for the district, but it is important for Budapest as a whole, because it is one of the most important green areas of Budapest, and it is not only the XII. district, not only the I. Districts, the V. Districts, and the VIII. Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is amended in accordance with Annex II to this Regulation. district people go up to rest, but Budapest as a whole goes up there. I would ask that if you do not know these development plans, please know them, and this is precisely the current regulation, and I would like to say here... one of my fellow Members mentioned that this is a question of increasing the capacity to build. It's not about the increase. The rule that you, my fellow Member, have just referred to is still in the law and remains in the law. However, there are elements in the law that did not contain a certain number of restrictions, but they are now incorporated into the law, and there it is now defined for every property that can be built in that area. This has not been the case before, and it is now exactly surrounded by the area where the development of green areas could otherwise take place in the next period. I would also like to refer you back to what you just said, what my fellow Member said, which meant that the scope of the campsites could be extended from 5 percent to 15 percent. There is no such thing in this legislation at all! So this legislation doesn't say anything about it, there's no such section, there's no such paragraph. I want you to go over the law yourself. What you might refer to and what you might be thinking is a completely different rule. The rule that previously stated that if an area was included in the area around Lake Balaton, it had to be covered by a 5 percent green area replacement in the whole settlement. The current rule requires that, if a person involves such an area, 15 per cent of the area as a whole, 15 per cent of the area covered should otherwise be provided as a public park or as a green area. So I do not know, my fellow Members, what legislation you are reading or what kind of eyes you are reading or even reading these laws. Because it doesn't say in this law that anyone can infiltrate anything without restriction. This regulation is about making clear, transparent rules everywhere from the mining area to the green area, and everyone knows what they can do in this area, and there should be priority everywhere to the protection of green areas, nature and monitoring that such progress can take place in Hungary. Fellow Members! This legislation is a framework law. When we talk about amending several laws in one legislation, it does not necessarily have to be seen as a salad law or even a confusion of concept, a legal confusion when someone says so. We can talk about the Salad Law if it is not a subject that is covered by certain legislation. When a law covers a subject and regulates it in a comprehensive way, complements it, improves it, it is not a salad law, but a law on the subject is a law on a subject! This law is typically such a law. Fellow Members! As far as Budapest is concerned, it is not possible to confuse the large investments made by the capital city or the large investments that the state otherwise makes in the capital area. We're talking about two different things. The fact that the investments carried out by the state in the capital, in addition to proper coordination, and in agreement with the capital as a whole, also have a forum in the capital, in agreement with them, is in the fundamental interest of the city, and that it is in the same hands as the management of state investments in this respect, it is in the interest of all the people of the capital, but I will go on, not only in the interests of the capital people, because Budapest is not only for the capitalists, Budapest is for all Hungarian people, because Budapest is the capital of Hungary, so it is in the interest of all Hungarian people. And yes, Congresswoman has also made a reference to how our legal system is being built. We have proper legislation on legislation, a constitutional background on the level of legislation, the level of government decrees, the level of ministerial decrees, the level of municipal decrees. The hierarchy of this regulation, very precisely from 1990 onwards, is in almost unchanged form in the Hungarian legal system. Accordingly, there is a legislative regulatory power with regard to fundamental rights, and if we are talking about implementing rules, we need to be empowered by law, so the law must include in the law what regulation is possible at the level of government decrees and what regulation is possible at the level of ministerial decrees. Therefore, it is always reasonable and in order to preserve the unity of the legal system, not to confuse legislative levels in order to safeguard transparency and transparency; not to break the legislative hierarchy, but to regulate the level of law in accordance with the law, the level of government regulation in a government decree, the level of ministerial regulation in the ministerial decree, and, moreover, the municipality may establish a right in a municipal decree in its territory. And here I would also like to refer to the importance of the guidelines. In order to ensure unity in the application of law after legislation, the guidelines are very important, and it is not a problem if we strengthen them in our legal system, because the guidelines of this type are precisely that they can improve administrative case law and strengthen administrative practice. I would like, and I would like you to support, that, by the way, the appropriate hierarchy levels in legislation would be placed in place in accordance with the legislative rules, in accordance with the rules on legislation. And I would like to send a message to Mrs Bernadett Wind that I am at your disposal at any time. I'm also here in the Parliament building, so whenever, even today, I've been present several times, and I'm even here now, even after the debate, we can go out to the hallway and talk about anything. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett nodding:]] . Of course, I'm available if I can help you with a topic in which I'm helping you with the work of your representatives. I will help you, and I have always been very happy to help you, so I am available now, after the debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]] [[17 .30]]
u2019-06-12-165	Secretary of State, thank you very much for your answers. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general discussion of the bill on the promotion of long-term shareholder engagement and the amendment of certain laws for harmonisation purposes will follow until closure. The government referral is T/6343. Number 2 is available on the Parliament's IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Cseresnyés, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2019-06-12-166	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This bill covers a number of sectors, the laws of many disciplines, and sets out in a number of laws the framework, legal institutions and rules which, as a result of the legislation of the European Union, must also appear in Hungarian legislation. Allow me to briefly summarise the most important elements of the bill. On the subject of shareholder engagement, the bill also sets out new legislation on the functioning of public limited liability companies in addition to the legislative amendments contained therein. The recent financial crisis, the changes in the world economy, has shown that, in addition to the financial regulation and control tool system, the ownership control system for large companies and stock exchanges should be made more effective. International surveys and analyses in the area of ownership control examine the possibilities and rights of small shareholders, small investors, to look at the company's affairs and the corporate mechanisms that the legislation protects the interests of small investors. Dear House, The legislation of the European Union, through a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council encouraging long-term shareholder engagement, takes a number of important steps to significantly improve the functioning of stock exchange firms, the flow of information and information to shareholders. The bill allows the stock exchange company, the public limited company, to identify its shareholders. In view of the fact that only electronically registered shares of a public limited liability company can be held, this identification can be done by electronic communication by the securities account managers, i.e. quickly and efficiently. To the identified shareholder, the public limited liability company can also electronically provide the most important information on the upcoming corporate events, in particular the general meetings and the payment of dividends. The shareholder's access to information will therefore be ensured in the future. The bill is an important element of the provisions on the establishment of the remuneration policy of directors, supervisory board members and CEO, the distribution of the company to the general meeting, the preparation and publication of a remuneration report on the implementation of the remuneration policy. Stock market companies are currently preparing remuneration policies through domestic application of EU recommendations. The EU Recommendation is not mandatory, so the current practice can also be considered voluntary. However, in the future, the preparation of remuneration policy will become mandatory. The bill considers the development of remuneration policy and the preparation of the required content as a priority. It therefore gives the general assembly of companies the right to express their views at the general meeting of the company, i.e. the right to make their views known to shareholders at the general meeting of the company. Although there is no need for a decisive decision, the bill ensures that if the general meeting rejects the remuneration policy, the management is obliged to put it back on the agenda, duly revised. It is mentioned in the remuneration report that the bill is also subject to regulation at the level of the regulation already in force in the European Union, so that, in the case of a credit institution or a stock exchange company, it leaves the details of the remuneration report primarily to the decision of the supervisory authority. Dear House, An important element of the bill is the regulation required for the approval of material transactions with related parties and for the disclosure of information on such transactions. It can be pointed out that companies will have to have an internal mechanism that precludes persons interested in the business from taking part in the approval decision and ensures that there is indeed such an approval procedure for all material transactions. The bill also ensures that if the shareholder is not a small investor, but an institutional investor, asset manager, his investment strategy is known. Public disclosure of such information can have a positive impact on investor awareness, allowing final beneficiaries such as prospective pensioners to optimize investment decisions, facilitating dialogue between companies and their shareholders. Dear Parliament, The company law, capital markets and investment service providers' guarantee rules related to the harmonisation of the Directive have been included in a small amendment of the Civil Code, the Capital Markets Act and the Law on investment firms and commodity suppliers and the rules for their activities. In the light of bank refinancing practices, the proposed legislation addresses some practical problems in the context of the pledge regulation. In the light of the provision of the Civil Code on the pledge of claims and the right to mortgage, it has become necessary to provide for a clear regulation in the context of the fact that, by including a pledge in the registration of a security, the right to pledge is also considered to be established. The amendment of Act C of 2003 on electronic communications contained in the bill serves two purposes. On the one hand, with the proposed amendment of the law, Hungary fulfils its obligation to harmonise legislation arising from its membership of the European Union. The new EU legislation maximises charges for electronic communications services from home to another Member State, such as telephone calls or text messages. However, on the basis of the EU provision, the provider may request the National Communications Authority, under very strict conditions, to derogate from the required tariffs for a fixed period of time. The bill sets out the rules of procedure for the application to the Communications Authority. Business and household expenditure is reduced by the transposition of EU legislation, due to extremely sharp competition in the domestic market it is not expected to request a derogation from the Hungarian service provider. On the other hand, the legislative amendment provides for the possibility of providing as wide as possible alert and information to persons in emergency areas in the event of a disaster or declared emergency. The amendment is necessary in order to enable providers of mobile radio telephone services to operate a technical system connected with a professional disaster management body, using which, if necessary, to alert and inform the relevant population in a given area by text. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill further strengthens domestic consumer protection. Due to difficulties in online trade and cross-border sales within the Union, it is necessary to increase the efficiency of consumer protection and to strengthen closer cooperation between consumer protection authorities. A new EU regulation sets the framework for cooperation between consumer protection authorities from 2020 to enhance consumer confidence and protect fair businesses. A new alert system will be established that is stronger than the cooperation system so far, in which the relevant authority will notify EU and other Member States' co-organisations if there is an infringement that could affect consumers in more than one Member State. Due to the strengthened powers of the Consumer Protection Authority, if other means fail to deliver, it may order, among other things, the removal of content from that website in matters falling within the scope of the EU Regulation, request the hosting service provider to remove, disable or restrict access to the online interface. [[17.40]] Hungary is at the forefront of detecting unsafe products, last year the third most of them sent 172 serious alarms in the rapid alert system. The bill also includes amendments to conciliation bodies performing alternative dispute resolution tasks in Hungary. The work of the Consumer Protection Authority has already been strengthened, with clear results, and the next step is to increase the effectiveness of conciliation bodies. The amendment significantly simplifies the procedure for the selection of conciliatory panel members. The current, opaque and bureaucratic designation procedure is replaced by the tender procedure conducted by the competent county and capital chamber. The main purpose of the amendment is to establish a professional basis for the management of conciliation bodies. Reconciliation panel members and presidents shall be selected from among the candidates by the Minister for Consumer Protection. On the basis of the bill, there will be a uniform, mandatory rules of procedure at national level, so that uniform procedural and traineeships can be established for all 20 bodies, which serve the interests of consumers and entrepreneurs at the same time. Following the past twenty years of operation, there is currently a significant imbalance between the funding of peace settlement bodies in the capital and rural areas. With the amendment of the law, these disproportions will be eliminated, so that rural bodies will be strengthened and strengthened. Dear Parliament, The bill also includes amendments to a number of transport-related laws. The main aim of the provisions is to fulfil our country's legal harmonisation obligations. In addition to achieving more objectives of harmonisation, the amendment of the Aviation Act will also be a means of establishing a set of requirements adapted to deregulation efforts and capable of responding innovatively to rapid changes in the EU legal environment. The amendment will allow the technical specifications to stop increasing the legislation governing the sector, while making their performance mandatory on the air transport authority's website possible to be met. The primary objective of the amendment to the Road Transport Register Act is to comply with EU legal harmonisation obligations. From 1 January 2020, automated access by electronic means to the specified data of the Hungarian vehicle register should be granted to authorities investigating foreign value added tax fraud, as well as to Hungarian tax authorities the possibility of querying in the vehicle registers of other Member States. XLII 2000 on water transport. Law hereinafter referred to as "Vkt'. The purpose of this amendment is, inter alia, to comply with the law on harmonisation. By amending the law and following the associated appointment of a government decree, the examination necessary for obtaining shipping qualifications will be carried out exclusively by a non-profit organisation which is state-owned or established by it. The main purpose of the amendment to the Rail Transport Act is to end the ongoing infringement procedure. Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 2012/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council aims at strengthening the independence of infrastructure managers, ensuring non-discriminatory access to and better use of infrastructure. The Directive strengthens the financial and organisational guarantees of transparency, reducing the risks of possible cross-subsidisation of infrastructure managers and railway undertakings. The Law on Railway Transport currently in force is XCVIII of 2018. Following its amendment to the Directive, the directive largely complies with the requirement, but for some provisions it is essential to further clarify and supplement the current domestic legislation. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Domestic roll-out of electric vehicles can play a major role, even be key to sustainable development, as they cause and represent much lower environmental pressures and contribute to reducing noise and greenhouse gas emissions, thereby improving air quality. The proposal on the Parliament's table aims to achieve the objectives of building electromobility as set out in the EU Directive on the construction of infrastructure for alternative fuels by laying down the basic provisions necessary to create a regulated market environment. The bill aims to settle an already existing, rapidly expanding but unorganised use of electric cars by introducing regulation on electromobility services. The bill aims to settle licensing, notification and reporting rules for the electromobility service. In the case of public charging equipment, the issue of operating licences will be assigned to the existence of a minimum guaranteed availability value in order to ensure that the provision of electromobility services is available without delay and continuously by users. The bill installs the operating authorisation of electric charging equipment and the announcement of service provision to the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. In view of the fact that the new service defined in the framework of this bill, electromobility, is not a supply of electricity or fuel, but an independent service, and therefore the provisions of electromobility requiring legislation can be incorporated into the separate subtitle of Act I of 1988 on road transport. In view of what has been said, I would ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill, both in the speeches and at the end, with their votes. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-167	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Mihály Witzmann, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-168	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us, as set out in its title, aims not only to encourage long-term shareholder engagement, but also to make further amendments in six other areas, and, as we have become accustomed to it, we are once again dealing with amendments of this kind in a salad law that are necessary to comply with the various directives of the European Union. This is no different with the current bill, which aims to transpose a number of EU directives into the Hungarian legal system. I would not like to add too long to the word, and, of course, I would spare the Honourable Parliament the fact that I should list all of these in terms of terms, even because, thanks to the Secretary of State, we have heard a very broad and meaningful presentation on these details. However, if some of the elements of this salad law should be highlighted, I would like to start by saying that I consider the section of the proposal which ensures greater protection of juvenile privacy in criminal proceedings and clearly regulates the rights of young people in so-called correctional institutions. Mr State Secretary has already mentioned it, and I think that the second and perhaps most important part of the bill is the phase on encouraging long-term shareholder engagement, which can be called important for several reasons, because it is increasingly observed that investors in the financial and capital markets in the world are focusing on too short-term returns, resulting in an optimal corporate governance and performance indicator. It is important to stress that it is necessary to strengthen corporate ownership control in order to ensure even more prudentness, and that the Directive also lays down detailed rules for identifying shareholders and informing company events, as well as how institutional investors and asset managers should account for their engagement policies. [[17.50]] It is also regulated that shareholder advisors should have a code of conduct and make it public. The EU Directive also provides for the compulsory establishment of remuneration policy and its introduction to shareholders as regards directors of the company. The company shall draw up and publish a remuneration report on the implementation of the remuneration policy. A short but also to be highlighted part of the proposal is the section on electronic communications, which aims, inter alia, to ensure that electronic communications providers providing mobile radiotelephony services establish or implement a technical system, as defined by the central body of the professional disaster protection body, which, if necessary, may alert and inform the relevant population in a given area, either in a short text message or in a text message. With regard to the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act, I would like to note the following. Many think, think, or experience that the functioning of the conciliation bodies is ripe for reform, as they are re-established every four years on the basis of the current rules. The last four-year term of office of these bodies will also expire on 31 December 2019. The reorganising work of the bodies should start 120 days before the members of the bodies cease to be in office. The reason for the entry into force of 1 September 2019 is that these reorganizations will be implemented for conciliation bodies already on the basis of the new rules in the proposal. By changing the often bureaucratic and opaque selection procedure, the door to reconciliation board membership is open to everyone. The independence misinterpreted by the Presidents will cease, and, of course, all acting councils will continue to be independent and impartial in their decision, but it is necessary to ensure control of the bodies in order to strengthen professional standards. It is also necessary to establish uniform rules of procedure in order to increase professionalism. By amending the number of members of the College and by transforming the funding system, these conciliation bodies will certainly work more effectively, and I also think it is important to stress that 19 regional chambers have expressed their views on the amendment here and have unanimously supported it. This fact, too, I think, is a good justification and justification for this legislative amendment, this draft. Last thing I want to do is talk about the regulations on electromobility. The establishment of fundamental rules for the functioning of the domestic electromobility market is an essential element of the expansion of electromobility. Since the market has not yet reached the required maturity level, there are no uniform regulatory frameworks, central engagement and coordination are key to the establishment of a single legislative framework. I see that the adoption of the proposals will continue to create and broaden the regulatory environment to support the development of the domestic electromobility market, which hopefully will underpin the long-term future development of electromobility. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to support this package of proposals with your votes following this debate. In my view, each of the measures listed above is a proposal to improve our everyday lives, which also serve EU directives. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-169	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join my fellow Member, Mr Mihály Witzmann, who began his speech by explaining in detail these points in the State Secretary's Expo, but let us note that we are talking about a salad law here, as you said earlier, in vain, Mr Bence Tuzson said, that this is not a salad law, but a set of laws. In this, 25 laws are being amended, but in this they have defined comprehensible objectives of harmonisation, which are the transposition of the European Union's directives through a number of laws. I would like to highlight a few of these, which we consider to be extremely important, and we also welcome the fact that it will also be transposed into Hungarian legislation. This is, on the one hand, clear from the title of the law, the identification of shareholders, the option of shareholders which is now mandatory: the submission of remuneration policy to the general meeting in the case of public limited liability companies. This is extremely important, and it is obviously also important that information will now flow electronically. If we attach a little bit back to green policy, we are glad that we are now moving on to more and more electronic registers and paper-saving solutions, and this is also the point, so this is definitely an important thing. We also consider it important to make disclosure even more important in the case of transactions with related parties. It is also very important and it is also in the interests of shareholders to know about this. It has also been said and further explained, but it is absolutely important to mention the strengthening of domestic consumer protection. It is very important, because it makes life easier for all of us to know who we can turn to and how we can turn to, and that such a great change will occur with regard to reconciliation bodies. I would put a single question mark at the end of the conciliation board, which is that we trust that it will really work independently, because that can only happen. I was reassured that all 19 county chambers had given their approval to transform this reconciliation board institutional system. I only hope that they will truly achieve the goal of protecting consumers and thus Hungarian citizens. That's all I wanted to say. The Jobbik Group will support this proposal because we believe that the transposition of EU directives into the Hungarian legal order is extremely important. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-171	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-12-172	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to point out to Congress that the salad law is not a curse word, but a kind of legislative instrument, how should I put it? a slightly more professional term when certain points of several laws are modified or planned to be modified by the applicant. It is precisely as you have confirmed, that there is a need to coordinate the different compliances of EU directives, so obviously at first glance we can also find the common points that you mentioned in laws that may be in conflict with each other, so it is not a curse word for the salad law itself. Mr Secretary of State spoke about many things in detail about the bill, and also my fellow Member, Mr Witzmann. I would like to say a few words about encouraging long-term shareholder engagement, as this proposal is intended to improve competitiveness in financial markets. This is based on the 2017/828. The aim of this directive is also to transpose the proposal, obviously to comply with the Hungarian legal order, because the 2008 economic crisis has shown that in companies on the stock exchange, in public limited companies, there may be a significant conflict of interest between owners, i.e. shareholders and company managers, management, someone who considers short-term interests to be more important, and those interests may conflict, short-term and long-term corporate interests. At EU level, too, there is a strong effort to bring national rules into line with the rules on corporate governance in the Member States of the European Union, as European standards on corporate governance function as soft law, thus being a recommendation, but the self-regulation mechanism of companies remains a priority, this is very important. This directive is not without precedent, nor is the current law before us, as the Budapest Stock Exchange has made recommendations to those present on the domestic stock exchange before. The company management recommendations, which are responsible, are not legally binding, but also contain recommended standards, so it is worthwhile for companies to do both the shooting and the following. Therefore, the purpose of the bill is to ensure that the companies and organisations concerned have sufficient information in their prudent and long-term business decisions, taking into account their business positions and the interests of their members. It is therefore very important that business interests and business positions, as well as the interests of members and the interests of owners, can be represented and coordinated. From now on, when this bill is adopted by this House, it will be binding on all. The ambition of the EU and the Hungarian state is the same here: without significant restrictions on the financial market, it creates guarantees in economic life that can prevent crises such as the 2008 global crisis. I would like to bring here and underline the proper information to the public: making investor policy available, holding public events or prospectuses, and provisions under which investors will be able to make well-founded decisions and plan ahead in the long term, which, overall, encourages shareholder engagement in the lives of companies, thereby making these companies and managements more competitive. [[18.00]] My colleague Mihály Witzmann has already told me about the young people. I would also like to underline, and I consider it important that there has been a clear and important passage here, as well as a constantly, thanking God for electromobility, a faster and more dynamic use exercise by the Ministry or the Government with the establishment of licensing, notification and reporting rules for electromobility services. We believe that in the Fidesz-KDNP fraction association, Hungary is primarily interested in joining the developments generated by electric motoring. The electromobility programme can make a major contribution to reducing environmental burden and improving quality of life, and with the introduction of new innovative technologies, community transport can be greatly modernised. As for the rest of the bill, as for the conciliatory bodies, I have already been told the details. Here, too, in the title of the bill, the promotion of long-term shareholder engagement is highlighted; for a reason, I think this is the most serious part of the law. We are putting important directives into Hungarian law, we are taking important steps, I think to create a better economic environment, so the Christian Democratic Group supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-173	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-12-174	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I'm very concerned about the previous round, you should be sorry you weren't here, because we had a very similar debate. [[Peter Cseresnyés: I was here!]] I saw it come after the best parts. [[Defiance.]] What I'm trying to say is that it's worth clarifying now, because I think that's what we're going to do here today, and what we're going to do with the salad law, it looks like that's going to be the key question. Here we have just been taught by Secretary of State Tuzson that what is connected is connected, then it is all right, of course, what is related, then it is clearly decided by the government, and they can be put together. Now, let's take a look at this. And really, Mr. Secretary, how is it that when the communication staff sits down there, they take it and give the law a name? At least in the previous one, it's been written out that 13 laws are being amended. I'm gonna give up some of the rules here, and I think they're gonna touch at least 30 laws. Actually, it's all, I've written myself, 96 pages, and what's the title of this whole thing, which is about shareholder engagement, they can do with 10-12 pages like this, and then there's something else. I'm not going to go into it now, because obviously I see that, unlike the previous law, which was really full of scandalous things... I'm not going to come back to it now, and I'm going to find a way to react to Secretary Tuzson's false sentences, and it's not right that he ran away from the debate in such a way that he didn't get into the debate, but he said it as a closing word. So as far as this shareholder thing is concerned, it's a really legal harmonisation story, which is very well regulated in terms of transparency, registration, stock. I note very quietly that in Parliament there is such a cool background institution that makes papers. It's worth looking at them sometimes so they don't run away with them, because in that material it's really well put together, but it says that this law should have been passed by 10 June, so now we're practically two days behind schedule. I didn't want anyone to get hurt right now, but I just want to say that in that material, it's really fair how and how to manage this thing. Then we arrive at the real task, and if you really had patience, you'd be looking at how, how, how. But just for the sake of interest, how much related things are involved here, especially in the case of shares: road transport, smooth business, I think, can be added to this; regulation of drug distribution, perfectly normal, it is manufactured by drug shareholders, etc., it is completely smooth; water transport; road transport; capital markets, otherwise you might still be able to find it there; media services, smooth issues; electricity. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: EU Directive!]] So, I really have to say, I don't understand why anyone's bothering you. Why does anyone say these things aren't related? It's obvious, like lettuce leaves, they fit in together, and in the middle, there's the stockholders' stuff. Now, indeed, Mr Secretary of State is getting away with the part that Mr Tuzson didn't swim, because I'm not going to go into any details of this, but in fact, I have to say that it would be worthwhile to come up with something more practical if you want to take Parliament seriously. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-175	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, Democratic Coalition. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-176	Thank you very much. I think it could easily be made clear, or it should be done, and it is worth taking a little advantage of what the government has started here by saying that, indeed, in the legislative process, as my fellow Member has just said, we have listened to Secretary Tuzson's lecture. He meant it completely, didn't he, and explained the place of the ministerial decree in the hierarchy, the place of the law and the rest, and, by the way, note that my fellow Member has quite described the salad law against you in this story. Compared to this, ten minutes later, you will come here with a draft law in which we start from the fact that, let's face it, you have come here because you have been forced to do so, because so far you have failed to regulate this area, and at last you will now have the price regulation of the text, as the Secretary of State has said, and we will add air transport, water transport and what else you are trying to do. In fact, we could have been quite amusing to hear this story if we had not listened to it in the previous debate that, by the way, the economic crisis was seen as something caused by the parties, and now they are doing what they are doing, despite shaking their head, my fellow Member Nacsa, to come forward with, yes, you acknowledge, you acknowledge that there was a need and a need for regulation which you must, by the way, carry out on the basis of European directives. Yeah, because you didn't do anything about it, so it's about time something happened. And sometimes it's good for you to look a little, let's just say, more in the mirror when you refer to economic or global processes. Let us add that it is important to take steps to protect small investors. That is why I could say, and as a party for the most European representation, that yes, the European rules must be supported, but what you attach to this is also an example, which is quite concrete, because we are going to present a specific amendment to this, what you want in the area of consumer protection is unacceptable. You have chosen an area for yourself, Mr Secretary of State, that, even with regard to the appointment of members of the conciliation bodies, you will begin to build again something at the end of which it depends solely on the powers of the Minister or on the decision of the Minister. And then there are the favorite entrance bodies, the proposals that come in through the chambers, after the application, and then on that basis, the minister decides, and there is another network that you are vulnerable to. [[Péter Cseresnyés goes to Ákos Kara in the State Secretary's Box.]] Don't go, Mr. Secretary, as much as you're afraid of this story, you're going to have to face it. And the fact that consumer protection is being transformed in such a way that advocacy organisations are completely ignored is unacceptable. [[Tuzson Bence is looking for your card.]] Therefore, we must face the duality of the fact that in this law, too, there is all the filth of the salad law, because they are presenting one to which even Secretary of State Tuzson says that these are not compatible stories if we have a card, if we do not have a card. But the point is, however, that it is linked to the amendment of consumer protection, which is otherwise unacceptable. I therefore believe that what you want to do in the area of consumer protection should be at least expected, for example, to accept, or preferably, what we will present as a legislative proposal in this respect, because this is unacceptable. [[18.10]] That's because let me give you an example. At a time when the selection of members of the conciliation bodies seems to take into account only the opinions of the undertakings, what would the borrowers who have concluded the foreign exchange contracts have said, and otherwise you will take into account only the opinions of the banks? Dear Secretary of State, That is precisely the contradiction which is unacceptable to advocacy organisations, and I would say another attack on the civilian world. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Oh, my God!]] In this way, I think it cannot be accepted. Therefore, the way in which you are applying the regulation in this regard is right here, because at this moment, the abuse of salad law is in your hands and is being used in this way, it is certainly unacceptable. Therefore, I would ask you to take into account the amendments that are related to other parts of the law and to enable regulation at European Union level to be fully implemented, and in this way legal harmonisation should be achieved in such a way that it is acceptable, for example, to the Hungarian population, to consumers, and not to be established by means of your favorites. So the law can do good, at least for small investors. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-06-12-177	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Before I give the floor to two-minute speeches, I give the floor to Secretary of State Ákos Kara, who asked for an opportunity to speak. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-12-178	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity to clarify some important points in the section on consumer protection of the proposed bill. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Congressman Varju, The bill submitted does not change the former structure, which sets out the basic place of the conciliation bodies, while the reconciliation bodies are currently operating alongside the metropolitan and county chambers of commerce and industry. That won't change in the future. In the same way, it does not change that the county reconciliation bodies and the metropolitan reconciliation bodies will continue to carry out consumer protection tasks, i.e. twenty bodies. However, it will indeed change, Mr President, because I hope that your faction does not agree with the process that has developed with the financing system resulting from the current legislation, that there exists, for example, that the reconciliation body in the capital can manage from 170 million forints, that it can represent the interests of consumers, and that Tolna County can represent 2 million 300 thousand forints. The main reason why we want to change consumer protection is because in recent years there have been very important, important breakthroughs in the area of government consumer protection, and we would like to see that there is no lag in the responsibilities of conciliation bodies. You may recall, my fellow Members, we had a great-great success together, and almost everyone in Parliament voted in favour of consumer protection restrictions on commodity shows in three steps, practically minimizing their presence in the country. I believe that the government's proposal was a joint success. In terms of product safety, it has been a great step forward that we have managed to get the right government and laboratory background work to ensure that Hungary is now the third in Europe, so Germany and France are the only ahead of us in the rapid alert system to create a robust, appropriate system of protection for Hungarian people and Hungarian families with a very serious laboratory background work. There are many results, honourable Members, of consumer protection. And indeed, when we have reviewed, in terms of strategy, what policy tasks we have in the future in terms of tasks, the type of functioning of conciliation bodies that bring about deficits, negative ones, must be changed. There are eight rural reconciliation bodies in Hungary today, which are on the brink of dehydration in a financial sense, if it is allowed to use this term. That's because there's a bad regulation on the legal level right now. At the time when the only and only regulation was introduced, this could be a forward-looking proposal, since they did not know how many cases and in what part of the country in which it appeared. But I think that now, in 2019, when we have the data before us, the work of the past years is available, and it seems that there is an imbalance in the country, so we need to intervene decisively here, and this part of the Consumer Protection Act needs to be changed, because, apart from the Budapest Reconciliation Board, the Pest County Reconciliation Board, the financing of rural reconciliation bodies needs to be fixed, it needs to be changed, it needs to be translated in the right direction. As far as chambers are concerned, I believe that a unified approach must also work and a unified approach must also work in Hungary. It cannot be that there is a consumer in Hungary or there is a business, and in the same case it receives a different type of decision either in Hajdú-Bihar county or in Budapest or in Tolna County. In this way, there is no way to manage a consumer protection system, no way for consumers to get a handle on it, and no way for civil society organisations dealing with consumer protection. So I think, on the whole, that the Ministry, in this regard, the Minister for Consumer Protection, has a greater role to play, an extremely desirable role, is a unified approach in this regard. I would like to reassure Mr President that it is certainly a mistake on your part, and your experts may not have dealt with this in sufficient depth, but this draft legislation is precisely to ensure that there will be an equal number of people representing businesses in the area of consumer protection, i.e. those representing entrepreneurship, consumers or those involved in the reconciliation bodies of consumer protection from a so-called neutral point of view. So what is going to happen now is that the system will be balanced, and I think that the EU's direction in this regard is exactly the same in terms of practice. I also add to consumer protection the selection system, Mr President, if you know this system and have dealt with it, you know that it was extremely disproportionate and that a terribly complicated procedure had previously been followed for the selection of conciliation bodies. Now it's a perfectly clear logic to apply to anyone. There may be a private person who would like to participate in the conciliation panel work in the field of consumer protection, but this does not preclude the application of a person who is connected to a consumer protection civil society organisation. And in this regard, the Chamber provides only a technical background to the process of applying. And just because a ministerial consumer, government, and ministerial decision is also made on reconciliation board members, for example, means that it is possible to guarantee the right equal share of businesses in the field of consumer protection, the people representing consumers, which will receive much more emphasis in the future, and the very future will eliminate the former dysfunctions that have been. So, ladies and gentlemen, my dear fellow Member Varju, I would ask you to take a closer look at the bill and I would ask you to support this proposal, because, for the sake of the people, this proposal is for the sake of balanced consumer protection. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-179	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-180	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I asked you to speak because you hit my ear, László Varju, a representative of the Gyurcsány Party here, talking about the crisis, whether we denied it or what we did or what we did. [[18.20]] Mr. Congressman, it's a bit of a comeback to talk to you about this, at least, when it was your boss who said on one Tuesday night that there was no crisis, on Wednesday morning he said that he managed the crisis successfully and then brought in 25 billion dollars of IMF and European Union credit. He took the 13th month's pension in exchange for pay. [[László Varju: None of the three statements are true! The president's ringing the bell.]] So to tell you about the crisis, you would have managed anything successfully... Yes, what I said, I believe that the EU directive was born because, in the 2008 global economic crisis, there were many large stock exchange companies both within the EU and outside the EU where they saw that management and owners represented completely different interests and could not make an appropriate decision. But that you were saying that... when you denied for a long week that there was any crisis, and then quickly lifted it up, your offshore knight's central bank president raised the basic interest rate, and then the restrictions came, and the only way you could pull the country out of Greece's level and a little higher is by bringing in so much credit that we had to repay. Congressman, don't talk about the crisis. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-12-181	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, For a two-minute speech, I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, DK. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-182	Thank you very much. The truth is, honourable Member, that I would rather go in that direction and use these two minutes to deal with consumer protection from a professional point of view. At the same time, we should certainly have a law on how to punish a person who says lies here in Parliament. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Like you!]] For example, Mr Nacsa could be condemned immediately by the President in three cases. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It would be very bad for DK!]] But at least you'd be punished, not just us. From the point of view of consumer protection: I do believe that this system transformation brings this with it so much that, yes, it makes it dependent on the Minister. I believe or accept Mr. Secretary of State's commitment to this matter, and he believes that this can be resolved honestly, even if anyone applies. At the same time, when operating in the NER system, allow me at least to have doubts as to how this system is intended and what it is intended to be built. Those dedicated armies that you're going to try to put together here... I think it raises a minimum of doubts. Therefore, instead of this pro-state attitude, we should put some sort of mitigation into this. Indeed, have an opinion on this, and they must be involved, and this cannot simply be so simple that the minister will decide on the persons chosen in Mr Parragh's system, and they will be the result from here. So I think it is very difficult to handle this in this form without having any doubts about what will come out of it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-06-12-183	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State, Ákos Kara. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-12-184	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Member, If the debate goes in a professional direction, then I am available for a short comment. Mr President, once again, I would like to say that the Chamber would be a technical administrator in the new selection process for conciliation bodies. Here are the professionals who have so far participated in the reconciliation board work, who can apply, and who can apply for new ones. Congressman, give the system so much confidence that, from the point of view of consumers, what I have indicated... Congresswoman, I think it would be important, and I have indicated from the point of view of consumers that it is happening in Hungary today... Do you know, then, I ask the question: has it happened today in Hungary that a company or a consumer receives three different resolutions in three different counties? This can only be avoided if someone finally takes the liberty of taking it up to a level that raises this system's function, its weight to such a degree that, yes, there is a uniform set of rules, and from the county of Győr-Moson-Sopron to Szabolcs-Szatmár counties they treat and settle a case in the same way. I think that those who have played a role in reconciliation bodies can continue to play a role in reconciliation bodies. There would be only so much change now that there is a considerably simpler application system, there is no such civil organisation, complicated, obscure civil organisation system in the process, but this does not rule out the fact that members of social organisations in Hungary are not able to participate in the same conciliation board work. They'll be able to take part. I have looked at it in the county of Somogy; thank you very much, you have indicated that you will support the bill on behalf of Jobbik. You will certainly be able to make significant progress in Somogy County, in your own county, because I think that as Secretary of State, it is untenable that while in Budapest 170 million forints were awarded to the conciliation body in 2018 and 5 million 200 thousand forints in Somogy County. I think it needs to be changed, so it can't work. Just because there are more people living in Budapest and there are more cases does not mean that there are no consumer problems in Hungary. So I think that these disproportionateities should be removed and that the legal background of this should be ensured. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity. Thank you very much, fellow Members, for your patience. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2019-06-12-185	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-186	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, you did not mention it in this statement, but in the previous one, yes, that you consider it necessary to take immediate action to eliminate the imbalances. Well, what's stopping you from doing that? At any moment... as chairman of the budget committee, I see and follow the fact that you make decisions day by day, but rather from week to week, otherwise you will make such decisions at any time against the expense of a disproportionately expanded reserve in the budget. Therefore, if you consider it important in this regard, which I believe is important to have the conditions for the basic functioning of the conciliation bodies, then I think it is not such a very big idea, it does not take too much to think about not having a debate on the content of consumer protection when, even as a county, they provide a basic function for the functioning of all conciliation councils or conciliation bodies. So if you consider this important in this regard, I think you can do it much faster than that. Do it, and then we can talk about how to change the law. But then I think we should treat it separately, so we don't have to twist it into this salad law, but then let's take it out, take control of consumer protection as a whole, conscious consumer behaviour, and otherwise the changing circumstance that people are paying much more attention to what they are buying, what services they are using. And once again, I do not want to stress that banking services, and I am sorry, were not established at home, but at an international level, how people who, by the way, took on foreign exchange loans were not properly informed about this. That is why I think that it would be worth separating in this sense and that immediate action should be taken. Thank you very much. [[Gyula Molnár applauds.]]
u2019-06-12-187	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State, Ákos Kara. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-12-188	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, If I may, as before, let me say a few things factually. The need for this legislation, which Mr President says, is that we must now amend the law, whether we like it or not, because I think it is wrong that it has been stipulated by law that the support of conciliation bodies is proportional to the number of cases. I don't think it's necessary to record it at a legal level. But now that the law says that it is only fair to divide the source among the conciliation bodies, it is necessary to amend the law. What we are proposing in this amendment is that this should be resolved at a different level, and then indeed a government, a secretary of state, can react more flexibly to this, and you can be sure in the future that I will propose a lower level of legislation to have a mixed system, to have basic funding for all areas and counties, and to complement this by a real scale, where there are no cases to be said otherwise, so that matters should not be registered at certain points of conciliation bodies in the country, thank God, there are few such reconciliation bodies that carry only the source overall, but which have very little administration. Therefore, this amendment does indeed have the purpose of deregulation, because consumer protection must react quickly. The world is changing very quickly, and as we were able to respond without any legislative amendment to the fact that, for example, we have created an IT laboratory, which has received an extremely sympathetic, highly supportive support at the level of the European consumer summit organisation, I would like to say to you all that we have been able to control more than 2,000 web stores. But this type of problem, which we are talking about, must be brought about by the current legislative amendment. I would ask my fellow Members, thanking you for your patience to support the bill, the bill submitted by the government. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[18.30]]
u2019-06-12-189	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to make use of the opportunity to speak on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I will ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said. [[On the sign of Péter Cseresnyés:]] Yeah. I give the floor to State Secretary Péter Cseresnyés. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-190	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I will be very brief, because it is perhaps only at the end of the debate that Mr Secretary of State and Mr László Varju have entered into. I regret that Mr László Varju, after the first State Secretary's speech, did not understand exactly why this part of the law should be amended, but I hope that the very detailed and three-time repetition has led to success. I would like to thank all Members, Members and Members for their support. As I said at the end of the expo, I ask you that, after it really is a harmonisation of laws, you will support, with your vote, the amendment of this law or law in order to bring legal harmonisation into effect. And in that debate, what is the salad law, what is not the salad law, I would not, by any chance, agree with the closing. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-191	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill amending certain laws necessary for the restructuring of the institutional system and funding of the research, development and innovation system will follow. The government referral is T/6359. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Palkovics, Minister for Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2019-06-12-192	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government's aim is to ensure that Hungary is able to deliver top-ranking R &amp; D and innovation performance at European level in the foreseeable future. The existing system is inefficient, mainly because institutional R &amp; D funding is not linked to performance, scientific excellence or the impact achieved. Hungary is lagging behind, we were one of the driving forces in the European Union in 2017 in the area of economic growth and competitiveness. Good practices, especially in Germany, require transformation and efficiency-enhancing measures. The primary objective of the planned changes is to increase Hungary's competitiveness by creating conditions for more efficient operation and a single performance-based allocation of resources. Greater implementation of the socio-economic utility aspect appears to be more demanding than before, after the government decided in the Economic Protection Action Plan to increase the annual amount of funding for R &amp; D and innovation by HUF 32 billion in 2020. Together, these circumstances justify to a large extent and make the restructuring of the Hungarian R &amp; D and innovation institutions and the financing structure impossible. Dear Parliament, The aim of the bill is to create a new organisational and financing model for R &amp; D and innovation that will enable the use of resources more efficiently and to help achieve social goals, to focus on domestic R &amp; D and innovation activities by strengthening cooperation between the actors of the system, thereby increasing Hungary's competitiveness. As part of the new structure, a single structure of funding will be established in the form of a single NRDI Fund, which will enable the allocation of funds to be optimised and the uniform implementation of scientific and policy aspects, while eliminating fragmentation so far. The sum of HUF 32 billion will go to the NRDI Fund. The shift towards performance-based funding shows that additional resources can be used primarily for innovation competitions and the thematic excellence programme and national centres of excellence. The current plans are to devote more than two thirds of the total increase in resources planned for next year to these two areas. According to the bill, funding for innovation in the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund will be separate from funding for research in the future. Resources under the research fund will be used exclusively in research institutes and higher education institutions and to finance individual research excellence. The purpose of the research fund is to finance value-creating, socially useful research projects in competitions. The Innovation Fund fund supports corporate innovation, market-oriented research and development activities, which are mainly carried out jointly by the academic, university and corporate sectors. The structure reflecting the EU support structure will help to increase access to direct-led EU funds, thereby improving the proportion of national and EU proposals submitted and won by researchers and research institutes. Dear Parliament, The National Science Policy Council, which is independent of the National Research, Development and Innovation Office, is hereby set up as a body responsible only for the government, oversees the operation of the NRDI Fund. The NTT also provides an opinion on the government's R &amp; D and innovation activities. The NTT is a body composed of representatives of government and university, scientific, economic and corporate sectors, through which all stakeholders can make joint proposals and, in some cases, decide on outstanding areas of R &amp; D and innovation. In particular, the NTT shall deliver an opinion on the principles of the use of the NRDI Fund, monitor the use of the Fund and make recommendations on strategic issues related to R &amp; D and innovation. The government expects the rethinking of the aid policy system to result in self-sustaining market-based operating models. Dear Parliament, In order for the scientific performance of the Hungarian research institute network to increase substantially its impact on the Hungarian economy and society, we propose a new direction and structure based on internationally successful models, and instead of providing basic funding, it is necessary to focus on budgetary support distributed on a performance basis. With the adoption of the bill, the Eötvös Loránd Research Network will be established, which will contribute to the greater and more efficient utilisation of the core research results of the research institute network in Hungary. I must point out that the bill does not affect the public body status of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. The Eötvös Loránd research network constitutes a separate budget chapter in the Budget Act, not under the government's direction or control, thus increasing its research autonomy compared to today's state. Research centres and research institutes may operate as central fiscal bodies or public benefit non-profit companies, in accordance with their own decision. The legal status of the research sites is therefore not affected by the amendment of the law. They shall determine their activities within the framework of their awarded applications and contracts and within the limits of their statutes. Research centres are also entitled to carry out business activities. There will be 17 central budgetary bodies under the auspices of the research network. The main decision-making body of the secretariat of the Eötvös Loránd research network is the Governing Board. The 13-member governing body shall enjoy, inter alia, the right to dispose of the funds of the research network, exercise fundamental employer rights over the head of the secretariat, and decide on the appointment of the heads of research institutions. Six of the members of the Governing Board, above the President, are elected by the Government, six by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, with at least two thirds of them being selected from among the researchers of science. It is a major step forward to ensure and assume responsibility for the quality and goodness of the operation of the institutional network. The Governing Board will be assisted by a scientific council with a broader horizon and a wide range of scientific aspects and interests, as well as by an international advisory panel of internationally recognised foreign researchers. The latter contributes to the regular scientific and organisational performance measurement of the Eötvös Loránd research network, increasing its efficiency. To sum up, the development of a new organisational and financing model for the R &amp; D and innovation system will enable the focus of domestic RDI activities, the more efficient use of R &amp; D and innovation resources, the strengthening of cooperation, and the integration of domestic research activities into the domestic and international innovation systems. The government wants more research and innovation from more sources, so we are adapting the funding to good international practice and the EU support structure. Organisational and funding changes aimed at increasing resources and making better use of them will be in the interest of researchers and will help to make better use of results. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the proposal to amend the laws described above. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[18.40]]
u2019-06-12-193	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Before we continue our work, we must decide on a meeting matter. Vice-President István Hiller wishes to speak during today's general debate. If the representatives of the Vice-Presidents speak, the sitting shall be held in the course of further negotiations of a separate motion only if the Parliament agrees to do so. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament, and it agrees that Vice-President István Hiller will be able to lead the Parliament during further negotiations on this proposal. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. It's unanimous. I declare that the Parliament has adopted my motion by unanimous vote. Dear Parliament, There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. I give the floor to Mr László Pósán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-12-194	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, The proposal before us can be divided into three main parts. The first part is what Minister spoke about, namely what and how research and innovation funds can be financed. The other main content of the draft law practically establishes the National Science Policy Council for the professional supervision of the Single Research and Technology Innovation Fund. The third part deals with the topic that has caused the greatest political and other reactions and moods in recent times, namely the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, which concerns the transformation of the MTA research institute's network. As Minister said, the bill does not affect the status of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences as a public body, nor does it affect academic fees. This is important because such concerns have also come to us. For those of you who don't know, I'm telling you that a non-scientific academic doctorate or academic title comes with money, a PhD, which, according to the law, is not. The holders of the MTA doctoral title receive a monthly gross HUF 90,000 on taxpayers' money for the rest of their lives, which is not subject to current benchmarking. For academics, for ordinary members, 455 000 forints and 353 900 forints/month for correspondence members for the rest of their lives. In the event of their death, a certain proportion of this will be given to the relatives. Of course, we consider them to be a subject within the framework of public body status, so there is by chance nothing in the bill. However, the reorganisation of the research network, as has also been said in the ministerial expozee, would serve the purpose of making more and more effective use of the Hungarian research results. Therefore, the Eötvös Loránd Research Network would form a separate budget chapter in the Budget Act. It is not under the authority or control of the government, it would be for the National Assembly to report as the Academy has done so far. Research centres and research institutes may operate as central fiscal bodies or public benefit non-profit companies. There are many examples of this, by the way, around the world, so we are not going to come up with the Spanish wax now, but we are essentially trying to adopt and utilize the existing knowledge for Hungary as well. I would just like to note that the issues that have been formulated or formulated regarding how the results of research and development can be achieved are not new; they have been accompanied by Hungarian scientific policy thinking for a very long time, to say, since the change of regime. Allow me to quote a 2006 treatise of this nature. István Polónyi wrote it, and I dare say it only because otherwise István Polónyi cannot be accused of being a sniper of the Fidesz. He wrote the following in 2006:. The Academy's research institutes work in the economy rather fragmentedly. The question is, which country can afford to separate such a significant scientific potential from the needs of the economy in the ivory tower of autonomy. The MTA's institutional network should find a form of organisation with a much more active interaction with the economy, which is hardly possible under the wings of the MTA. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It is also written by him:. Research institutes separated behind the MTA's protective base, which represent a very significant research and development base, do not constitute a pull force, and are often less involved in domestic comparison than higher education research. István Polónyi also writes that these research institutes operate with taxpayers' money, but their operation is determined by bodies in which they are mostly employed in the same institutions, so their operation is determined by themselves. István Hiller said at the Hungarian Academy of Sciences' 2007 General Meeting:. We fund ideas with taxpayers' money, but we do not help them become useful products for the country. János Kóka went further, and he said that the areas of the MTA that do not directly serve competitiveness should be made equal to the ground, because it only produces dusty documents. So, basically, you questioned the existence of the Academy as a whole. I think that these are very harsh points, because what we need to talk about is how science, its results, can be better channeled into everyday life for the benefit of the economy and society as a whole. Ferenc Glatz, President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in 1998 did not just call this untenable before the Parliamentary Committee, and I quote that some body of employees wants to tell themselves what to search for, someone has to have the money of Hungarian taxpayers, and someone has to carry out the tasks. The then president, Ferenc Glatz, wanted the research centers not to delegate members to the Council of Academy Research Centres, so that it looked like 50 percent of the general meeting was delegated by the Research Forum, but the members of the Council of Research Centres were elected by the Academy Assembly. President Glatz wanted to take away the right of the Council of Academy Research Centres to decide on a framework for its own management and to propose to the General Assembly the fundamental issues of the research sites and to leave the right of opinion only and to terminate the right to veto in the election of the secretary-general. The opinion of the researchers of the academic research network at the time, I quote:. The ideas of the President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences would basically undermine the independence of researchers, endanger the freedom, independence of science, and a dangerous centralization intention. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, These sound like very familiar sentences, as I said, they were written in 98. Julianna Kardos, then scientific advisor of the Central Chemical Research Institute, spokesperson of the Research Forum, said that it is not good to rely on the general meeting on research sites, because most of it is not a research institute, but a university person. It is a complete rejection of a possible external control. Unfortunately, even later, as we unravel this story, it comes back several times. I would like to quote a relatively recent similar expression. Ádám Török, Secretary General of the Academy, said it not too long ago that, in the case of basic public research, there is no need to take into account efficiency. It is no coincidence that the President of the State Audit Office responded to this in an open letter. He said: "Every public-funded organisation is expected to make effective and efficient use of public funds, and the MTA and its research network can be no exception. The most important thing for Hungary's competitiveness is that all public expenditure must be subject to performance requirements. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Hungary has spent an increasing share of its GDP on R &amp; D &amp; Innovation activities over the last decade. Of course, this was the case with movements similar to the sinus curve, and the trend shows this in this respect, but despite the spending, the effectiveness of the Hungarian R &amp; D &amp; I processes is stagnating. It seems that greater investment has not resulted in greater results, which is what economists say is that efficiency has deteriorated. In 2011, József Pálinkás, then president of the Academy, said the following in connection with the 2012 budget: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So the number of researchers increased, the expenditure increased, but the results did not confirm this either then or later. [[18.50]] If you look at the academic reports, then these figures show this trend in this respect. R &amp; D, the public sector, the public sector, the question of how these relate to each other, is, of course, not only a Hungarian phenomenon, but also a general world phenomenon, if you can put it that way, in the post-World War II era. Judit Fried and Zsuzsanna Sunnyogh wrote a study on this in 2008 at the Economics Review, in which they took stock of what they had done in England, France or Italy in the 1980s. Research institutes have been reviewed and new incentives have been introduced to increase their industrial contract activities in the framework of public and private sector cooperation at the expense of basic research. They have made employment more flexible by completely eliminating the status of civil servants in some types of institutions and, in others, limiting the number of people employed as civil servants. The external evaluation of research institutions has become regular, and the use of results is at least as important as publication. In the United States, Western Europe, the role of academic patenting has increased significantly. According to the National Intellectual Property Office in Hungary, it is far from possible and, compared to research expenditure, painfully few patent applications are made. In the United States, Western Europe, institution funding has been reduced with an innovation incentive and the proportion of project-based funding that can be obtained in competition has been increased. There is also a point in this proposal. In Eastern Central Europe, the organisation and institutions of scientific research have been transformed in most countries after the change of system. The research institutes of the Soviet academic academies have been integrated into universities in several countries, but there have also been cases where they have been abolished, for example, the Baltic States belong in this area, the Czech Republic in part here and in part there. In Poland, the scientific societies of the civil world, which were academies in the European sense of the word, have never disappeared, and these are mostly still the 19th century. They were established in the first century. In Austria, where the academy also has research institutes, currently 29 institutes and 1451 staff, as I understand it, in 2011, under an agreement between the academy and the scientific ministry there aimed at increasing scientific performance, academic institutions were handed over to universities. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that if someone takes control of the Act on the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, then that an academic institute could divorce from the Academy, they could go to a university, to another research institute, it is such an incredibly complicated procedure that it is practically not happening, and we also know a very concrete example of this from recent times. Both the Rector of the University of Veterinary Medicine and the Chairman of the Veterinary Science Committee of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences said that it would be reasonable to manage these two scientific workshops in one unit, more so, because they are physically in one place at one site. In practice, it has been operating in two separate systems since then, and it is not apparent that it is easy and reasonable to achieve such intentions, which are difficult to begin with from the point of view of reason. This is why the bill includes the possibility for research groups and departments to decide later on whether they wish to associate with universities or other research centres, if their scientific and research interests and objectives justify this. It seems, by the way, that when we look back at the last few years, the Academy has sensed that something has to be changed. I have already mentioned that Ferenc Glatz raised such matters in 98. In May 2006, the 175th General Assembly declared the need for the MTA reform and the then president, E. Szilveszter Vizi, did not reject the fact that academic research sites should be excluded even from the authority of the General Assembly of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Another question is that it didn't get to this stage anyway. At that time, a pharmacologist named Csaba Szabó, who had worked in the United States and England for ten years before, said to the press: "The research network must be separated from the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. In Hungary, MTA and universities support so-called basic research much better and without any control, which can only produce results in the long term, while the applied science that benefits in less time does not get enough money. In the West, it's the other way around. Of course, basic research is also paid there, but they are very careful to spend only on a topic that is really useful. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In 2011, President József Pálinkás presented a similar proposal, reorganized the units into ten research centres, and said that the expected renewal would also result in improvements in performance and utilisation. Well, even the Parliament has provided additional resources for this. It's been, like, eight years, seven years. These have not been confirmed, so it seems that we need to find another way, and in essence, the current bill does nothing but apply in Europe. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] We are mainly developing systems based on German samples. Anyone who disputes the legality of this will essentially argue with the Germans. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-12-195	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2019-06-12-196	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungarian scientific life deserves more than that. I am very sad that today we have to discuss this bill in this form. Mr. Secretary, you can always go back to all my press releases, press releases, press conferences. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] Each time, I emphasized that the modernisation of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and its elements are XXI. The transformation of the century, which really remained for us from the period after 45, the Soviet-Russian period, obviously has to be modernised and even moved on, I have also tried to make it clear in every speech that the National People's Party committed to Jobbik as a whole of Hungarian science even considers university research related to the whole of Hungarian science to be of particular importance in this context. I think it is absolutely necessary to support and support the objective of promoting university research more strongly. We have tabled such amendments to the budget many times, as it can be pointed out in the case of large research universities that, unfortunately, there is not enough resources available for basic research and academic research. In this context, I think that it is very worthwhile to consider the process of which we are here today at a sad climax. Let us look at how this whole process has started, and I will say it once again, despite the fact that I consider the objectives set to be fully supported, both the increase in innovation and research and development amounts are very positive, and, as I said, the modernisation of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, which has already been started by President Pálinkás, we would consider this continuation to be very supportive after a sensible policy debate. But let's really see how we got to today's debate. It all began with the fact that, despite the fact that the Academy reports annually in writing on the activities of the government, every two years it also reports to the Parliament about its activities... here with a slight detour, I find it shameful that what the Fidesz pro-government majority did to President Lovász at the meeting of the Cultural Committee was the last time, so that the report was postponed with reference to differences between the numbers of the present Secretary of State and the figures published by the MTA, and then the President of the Academy could graduate; closed by closing remarks. [[19.00]] So I think that there has been no signal from the government previously in which an objection or a serious proposal has been tabled in relation to these reports against the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Then it happened that there was a 54-minute ominous reflection deadline for the leadership of the MTA, which an international correspondent at President Lovász's international press conference asked if he understood correctly, because one does not do so in a European cultural country under the leadership of an MTA. After that, we could practically discover in the budget law of 19 that the government would allocate the budgetary resources of the research sites to the Minister's Ministry. Moreover, the payment schedule has been unpredictable since then, and this causes serious problems with the operation of research sites. Moreover, the participation of researchers from research institutes in international applications has been rather difficult since then. Then, in early 19 the new shock occurred when the Minister made it clear that he was unwilling to provide budget resources for research institutions. However, I would like to note that we are talking about the lives of five thousand young educators and research colleagues who speak languages and are embedded in the international scientific world, and not one of whom has left our country for this reason. This responsibility, Minister, should have been taken very seriously in my view, and with the future of Hungarian science, the future of these 5,000 teaching and research colleagues, should not have been played this way. It should also be said that what happened afterwards was that the Minister began to negotiate with the leaders of the research institution levels, which, for my part, as a former university leader, I find simply outrageous, because that means that instead of the elected leadership of the Academy, the minister began to negotiate with a vulnerable middle level lower than the one, so to speak, with some institutions to make separate deals, to wave them, to threaten them as said, and the rest, instead of the responsible leadership of the Academy, who were always ready for a sane policy debate on how to proceed with this modernisation process, would have been discussed by the Minister. Here it is practically necessary to see that this time-consuming tactic lasted until the recent elections to the European Parliament, followed by what the Academic Workers Forum called the Trianon of Hungarian Science in its own communication, because on our national day of mourning we managed to present this bill to the House. I didn't tell you all this, Minister, to read your sins on your head now, so to speak, but to show the House why it is the kind of scientific life that both domestic and international scientific life and international political life are an outrageous consequence of all of this. Because what I see in this whole case is that the error is not in the objectives set, or that it could be debated in a sane way, as I have indicated, but it is simply this process, which has caused a crisis of confidence, I see, and I think that the Hungarian government, the majority of the Fidesz government and the Minister have a personal responsibility in this matter. I would like to ask with respect that Minister respond to the really serious demonstrations and international speeches. Now, for example, as I have mentioned, President Lovász recently held an international press conference in which he stressed that the MTA has always shown cooperation with the government, but there is no guarantee of basic research in this draft law, and there is no European scientific institution German model here, German model there, and I know the Max Planck Institute in some way, which would be subject to such a highly centralised government will as we see in this draft law. For example, I think it would be particularly desirable, Minister, that the Hungarian Government does, on a quasi-project basis, issue issues of outstanding importance to Hungarian society, either to the MTA or to universities. So let's say that the situation of people living in extreme poverty is a research, or, let's say, a research into how the school system could be modernised in the poor regions of Borsodi, and the rest, and so on. I would now like to give concrete examples that I would consider this very desirable. However, I fear that this complete centralization of the whole system, which is quite clearly apparent from this draft law, will not move in this direction, but will move in the direction that only direct, direct-economic research, and so to speak, will have as much resources as it deserves, while not spending enough resources on basic research. Allow me to repeat my favourite example, Minister, you may have heard it from me once before. My ELTE research colleagues have been researching the migration of fish and birds for four decades. If, 40 years ago, the then minister had said that, well, this should not be researched, because this is such bullshit, I'm not sure that now the control of the drones would have been developed by colleagues on the basis of this long decades of research. So I would just like to prevent us from going in a direction that is already criticised in Western Europe, precisely the transition to full project-based research and the funding of universities, so that, let's say, the career model of a university teacher cannot be calculated. This is a very serious criticism, including in Germany, and after a while it will be a competitive disadvantage, by the way. So here too, I would like to ask with respect for a more balanced position. The most important argument in the whole bill is that research results do not apply to an adequate level of innovation, and this needs to be changed. This argument is true in this form, but I do not think that this is the way to resolve it. For example, this would require an industrial environment that can and is interested in the results of research... So if you'll excuse me, let me put some politics into the current fidesz oligarchs' companies and invest in such innovations thanks to Hungarian tax-paying citizens and European Union funds, that would, for example, greatly boost the whole range of these innovations. And if the leadership of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences insists on the law laid down in the Fundamental Law and the Act of the Academy, which has been confirmed on several occasions by the General Assembly of the Academy, that this governing body here is in fact fundamentally contradicting the existing local government, which characterised the operation of the Academy, I believe that there is still very serious work to be done here to amend this bill. I would also like to explain that the General Assembly of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences intends to keep this research network in its own organisation. In fact, at today's press conference, President Lovász also quotes the Minister from the extraordinary assembly on 15 June 18th, which I quote - "The government does not want to reduce the budget of the Academy, does not want to take over the academic research institutes or to transfer them to universities, and the Academy remains an autonomous decision on how it intends to manage these institutions in the future. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[19.10]] In summary, I would like to say once again that we can basically support the objectives set, the modernisation of the Academy, but this current bill wants to introduce a total government control in Hungarian science that we must reject. I think it is very important to point out that this issue is already being dealt with very seriously at international level. As a reporter of the Council of Europe, academic freedom and university autonomy, I personally consulted both President Lovás and, let's say, the European Academy Association and so on. What I can only show here with respect to this House's wise consideration is that this bill does not increase our reputation in the world, and I would ask Minister for a fundamental revision of this bill, taking into account the principles that I have said. Let us not allow, indeed, that, because of the deterioration of a trust relationship that I have tried to show in my speech, we will cause extreme damage to Hungarian science, because this is a national matter that must be supported by every citizen who loves his country. Thank you for your attention.
u2019-06-12-197	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-12-198	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Exploratory research at international level, targeted development and productive innovation are essential factors for a competitive economy. The conditions for this are an efficient institutional system and funding based on a predictable, transparent competitive tendering system, which stimulates competition and cooperation. These organisational and structural processes encourage close and wide-ranging links and effective cooperation between the actors involved, both for the purpose of exploring, applying research and for the development of innovation in Hungary. By concentrating resources, the current fragmentation of the system can be reduced because, let's face it, it is fragmented and it increases its effectiveness, because let's admit there are places to increase its effectiveness. By developing a new organisational and financing model for Hungarian R &amp; D activities and innovation, the government intends to create a single structure that facilitates the utilisation of RDI results and the development and operation of professional cooperation, innovation networks. In the future, it is proposed that innovation and research funding, excellence in the new funding structure, research identified on the basis of societal challenges and promoting corporate innovation, will be unified and support the three pillars of the funding system. Uniform management of the relevant public resources will be ensured through the National Research, Development and Innovation Fund. The principle and method of using resources, the definition of areas of science to be supported, will be decided here by the National Science Policy Council to respond to my better fellow Member, which consists to two thirds of the representatives of science. There are the dominants, not orders, not government control, which you're talking about, or what you're visualizing, but a body that consists in two thirds of its composition, of people who come from this area who know, who understand and see on this track. The Government's intention, I believe, is clear, and the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP fraction in Parliament supports this. The aim is to ensure that Hungary is at the forefront of research, development and innovation at European level in the future. The operation of the research institute network outside the MTA's organisations, independently of the public body, is considered justified in order to ensure a more efficient, better-funded and efficient operation. More funding for more research, that's the goal. I think this is a very simple and very clear goal: more research with more money, more results. In order to prevent the comments of my fellow opposition Members: according to Article X of the Fundamental Law, Hungary guarantees the freedom of scientific research and artistic creation, this will no longer be harmed in any way, despite all the false news and the rumors that have come to its feet in the last few days. The freedom of research, the freedom of scientific research remains intact, but only the way of funding is transformed. I think we can all agree that we need more Hungarian patents and inventions, which can also strengthen the Hungarian economy. Currently, around 25 economically evaluable patents are issued from within the MTA's research network each year, and about none or one or two of which are XXI. It also responds to the digitalisation or innovation challenges of the century. We can see from these figures that much higher results are needed here. My fellow Member, Mr Jobbik, mentioned that critical voices are being made up already in Western Europe on project-based support or on performance-based support. Obviously, I find this a little questionable because that's how they work there. That's how they work, so they're not criticizing their own model, they're not criticising their own way of operating. If we take only the National Academy of Sciences, an institute in the United States, then the public benefit and self-sustaining company of the participants in scientific life is the American Academy of Sciences, which aims at supporting and public benefitting science and technology. I think that [[Szabolcs Szabó: Harvard is self-sustaining! Gergely Harvestó: No social security. Are you gonna stop that, too?]] the performance-based principle, performance-based and results-based support at the end of the trip, will result in precisely the innovation, the exact benefit that would be expected from this. Brenner Koloman said that international scientific life here has now been disturbed. I thought the Hungarian research network was smaller, but I am glad that we can have such an impact that the whole international scientific life is upset by Hungarian news or Hungarian researchers. Obviously, many Hungarian researchers have a lot of recognized publications, both in the past and in the present, either a prize or a recognised role in international scientific societies, which should not be denied. No one said anything about it, no one said anything critical about it. We have only talked about effectiveness, project-based and efficiency-based funding. I would like to ask that we conduct this debate on these grounds, that more research should be carried out from more support, and that this system should be financed more effectively. My fellow Members, who have been here longer than I have, may recall that the Academy of Sciences regularly draws attention to two things in its report to Parliament: underfunding and that the funding of the current institutional system is not properly coordinated. The Academy of Sciences here, before the National Assembly, acknowledged that the funding of the institutional system was not properly coordinated within the Academy of Sciences. This is clear from the parliamentary reports. There's both waste and lack. In fact, a lot of places have developed parallels in similar research or similar areas, which is clearly once again a waste category. In the MTA research institute network, performance in the internal allocation of resources has not been considered. It's very important to bring this aspect in, and these, I'm telling you, are quotes from the Academy of Sciences' own accounts. I'd like to bring you another quote. Let us recall in 2006 when the need for reforms on the operation and effectiveness of the MTA came up again in 2006, since, in the meantime, this issue has been raised several times before, but the then government has made an attempt to reform the organisation through harmful and market liberalisation tools. And here I would like to quote an economic minister, János Kóka, literally: the problem with Hungarian scientists is that those who are decisive or created something permanent no longer live in areas of the MTA that do not directly serve competitiveness, must be made equal to the ground, because they produce only dusty documents. This was the opinion of the government of the Socialists, led by Gyurcsány at the time. Obviously, we disagree. [[Gyula Molnár intervenes.]] What? [[Gyula Molnár: What about the pannon puma? The president's ringing the bell.]] We will also be able to engage in dialogue later in the debate, which is not the place for the main speaker group. And let's face it, they put together and closed down research sites between 2006 and 2010. According to the leaders responsible for the MTA reform, support for single-member research has been stopped in the first place, encouraging their colleagues not to continue this research in these areas. So that's where we started. I believe that, according to the bill before us now, either on the basis of what the Minister has said or on the basis of what my fellow Member Pósán has said, or on what I have tried to refer to in Article XXI. Hungary needs a research network with significant and relevant answers to the challenges of the century. Obviously, Hungary as a small country, as a small country... very many small countries cannot afford to have a huge scale or degree of basic research. [[19.20]] Obviously, I am not referring to the world-famous Hungarian basic research in mathematics or physics, but these research is mostly purchased by small countries, but it is very important that the subsequent research, whether applied, produces results that are both the Hungarian economy, the Hungarian industry, innovation, digitalisation, the XXI. They can find concrete answers to the challenges of the century. KDNP supports the proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-199	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr István Hiller, Vice-President of the Parliament, is the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. You have the floor.
u2019-06-12-200	Mr President, Congresswoman Wives and Congressman Lords! Dear Minister, They say Loránd Eötvös loved climbing mountains. When he got stuck in a research project, or if it wasn't clear where he was going, he and his daughters went on a mountain trip, and his head was clear, and from a distance he had a better view of the research area, and then he continued his work. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I suggest that this experience of Loránd Eötvös is being practiced now, because the choice of path that is being made in this law, in my opinion, is not in the best interests of our country. In fact, the bill can be grouped around three statements. One is the separation of the research institute network from the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, the other is the elimination of basic funding, and the third is the free transfer of academic assets. Actually, it's about taking away the academic fortune. I suggest that we go through all three topics in a professional sense, look at the arguments and arguments, and what is most important in this regard is Hungarian research and innovation, in this respect it is in the interest of our country. First of all, when the negotiations took place, you and the Hungarian Academy of Sciences set up a joint evaluation committee from scientists in order to ensure the quality of the activities and work of the research institute network, this company submitted a report for a limited period of time, which is public and which has not yet been mentioned. So this isn't some sort of academic background institution. This is not about some sort of academic lobby, but a joint group of researchers, recognised by you, set up jointly, and more precisely a committee, whose results were said in advance to be binding on you by both parties. I quote from the report: the MTA research institute network is one of the best in Europe. The performance of the network is excellent and has a number of creations that are at the forefront of the world and can be considered as a national treasure. There is no need for a radical transformation of the research network, but, like all large systems, this can be developed, for example by involving young researchers more intensively. So far, the quote. The principles of the evaluation were laid down by the Scientific Committee on the Research Network of the seven representatives of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. However, speaking of science, it is not only possible to examine and draw our opinion from an argument, so it should be added that, for example, the result quoted earlier, which the Ministry and the Academy, creating with a common will and saying in advance that they would accept, decided, was the truth and legitimacy of this opinion quoted above, for example, the external member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, György Grüner, the renowned professor of the University of California, who said that he did not accept it, the standards in which he lives in the scientific world, neither in terms of the dynamics of science, nor in terms of the division of the academic fields of the Academy, nor in terms of interpretation and result index. He explained this in detail in the United States and in Hungary. There's an argument like that. However, if these arguments are conflicted, I respectfully ask you to tell me what the conclusion is, which results in a better solution for our country if the research network is separated. Please tell me how it logically follows from the fact that the committee asked to speak out of what I just quoted, another disputes this, but there is only one condition, there is no conclusion that if the research network is separated from the Academy, then the result of Hungarian science and innovation is higher. No one told me! Therefore, on the first subject, I must say, Honourable Parliament, that the spirit of this law, the real content behind the text of the law, is not simply about the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. I say to you that, as we talk about the future of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, your perception of power is reflected in this law. This law is about power, and it is only the subject of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. I say to you that the actual taste and content of this law is about the same as when the Petőfi Sándor Elementary School in Sopron, the Gyulai István Primary School in Pesterzsébet, the Lovassy High School in Veszprém and about 3,200 others were nationalized. The same mentality as when the Institute of 56, the research and scientific results of which have not been disputed in the last two decades, did not particularly support its research method, and even in the first decade of the history of the current governing party, when it is believed that they do not agree or agree with the results of the research, they do not enter into a debate, but are absorbed. In order to avoid any misunderstanding, the Institute of 56 will be merged into the Veritas Institute, not into a university department, nor into a humanities centre, which is the network of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. You ever wonder why? That's because that's the best way to control it. This law is not about raising the quality of research, it is about strengthening the state and government control of scientific research in Hungary. This law is not about completing freedom, by raising standards, it is about strengthening the supervision of the Hungarian government, extending its power, and in this sense I like it, I do not like it, but it is about reducing academic freedom. That's what this is about! On the second issue, let us look at the issue of taking the property. With all due respect, I ask you to deepen the history of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in so far as the assets of the Academy of Sciences were not created after the Second World War. Not only do I think about the headquarters, but if you look at the story between the two world wars, the so-called Watchdog legacy, which meant that a Hungarian person, a citizen, left a very significant fortune for the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, a landowner of this property, a tenant of this property, became a bond holder of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. This property was not confiscated until 1946-48 because every government understood that it was not a government since the founding of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, nor did it belong to any government. [[19.30]] Let it be during the Austro-Hungarian Monarchy, during the Kingless Kingdom of Hungary and later on, except when there was a non-democratic arrangement in the country. The property ensured the independence of the Academy, that although the Hungarian state supported the Academy from time to time, year to year, period to stage, from the central budget of all ages called different, but according to today's concepts, but there was financial security, which was, by the way, a guarantee of research, opinion, research and scientific freedom according to the concepts of that time. When they take away the wealth, do not tell me that it is all that belongs to the Hungarian state, by the way! Sure. It's just another way to reduce the security of the freedom of research. And very well, let's give international examples. I am very happy to go along with the German and Austrian example; I happen to be working in the Austrian institution network. But if the German is mentioned, which is even more wealthy than the Austrian one, then I would like to appeal once again to your opinion at other times, namely, the German Academy of Sciences, with great respect, that is not the case. No! There is something that was created roughly a decade ago, which is called Union der deutschen Akademien der Wissenschaften, the famous eight German academys, from Heidelberg to Göttinga, Berlin to Munich, which, by the way, researched the peculiarities and regional structure of German history, has done a truly high-quality education and research, but it is such that the German Academy of Sciences is not even after the creation of German unity, so I ask you with great respect to the behaviour of the Academy of Sciences there, not to be compared to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences whose role in Hungarian history is clearly one of the most important pillars of Hungarian national identity. Therefore, I say in a national quotation mark, as you would like to talk about in perspective, with great respect to you, how you intend to do this in practice, when, at the time of all oppression, István Széchenyi, in passivity, but keeping his independence, and at every democratic stage, he wishes to reduce everything I have just talked about at the Academy. How does this strengthen national identity to mutilate one of the most important pillars of national identity? Because there's no man who can prove that! Otherwise, it is right to say that it is worth raising the quality of Hungarian research and innovation. It's okay. The thoughts I said a decade ago at the general assembly of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, in every word, in every sentence and in every mentality. Just because there was a dialogue, in a specific way, with the later elected President of the Academy, to whom I would like to point out with great respect that he was, after all, a Member of Parliament sitting in your benches for years. József Pálinkás, academic, criticized me many times in the benches of Fidesz when I was a minister, and after being elected president of the Academy, we sat down after, among other things, this speech and that meeting became one of the very important programs, the Hungarian National Talent Research Program and, in part, the Lendület program, which is linked to his name. It is a very specific situation that you are separated from your former Member, the President of the Academy, because he is criticizing you now, while at that time, at the time that you have spoken a lot about the dialogue I was talking about earlier, we had it. But speaking of dialogue, speaking of dialogue, how do you think that the President-in-Office of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences will be thrown out of the commission of the Hungarian Parliament? [[Interventions from the benches of opposition parties: That's right! Shame! Yes!]] How? How dare they invite him to the meeting of the Cultural Committee, he will come, he will give his opinion, the secretary of state of the government will give his opinion which is not the same, and the two introductions will be given culturally, and then the majority of the Cultural Committee will say to the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences that this is it, the door is for that, so you should go out? ! I saw that man's face. He is one of the most decisive personalities of today's Hungarian scientific life, and not only because he is the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. How do they look in the mirror? How will they tell posterity that we were the ones who threw the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences out of the committee during the trial of the law? I would like to ask you with all due respect that with all the arguments, be it a system of argument in the Hungarian public opinion and in the international public, with the joint aim of raising the quality of Hungarian innovation and science, from this path that this law represents, go down, engage in dialogue and establish a law that actually brings about an increase in the quality of Hungarian scientific life. That's not it, I don't support it, we're not going to support it. Thank you so much for listening.
u2019-06-12-201	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. There you go. You have the floor.
u2019-06-12-202	Dear House, Let me start with a quote. Although the government considers that the legislation adopted on this matter meets the requirements of the rule of law, they see that the new system is in the crossfire of a European and international debate that calls into question independence. Ladies and gentlemen, This quote is about another bill discussed today, suspending the bill on administrative courts. It's about the fact that they're doing exactly the same thing they're doing in administrative courts. There's something they really want to get their hands on, something the government wants to get their hands on, something that's still independent of him. And, of course, the international storm is coming again. Tell Minister to put himself in the place of the Minister of Justice, who had to listen today, that what he was fighting for here, what he personally took on, and for which he was in conflict, we are actually removing it, because that is precisely the tactical interest of Fidesz. Calm down, Mr Palkovics, your proposal will also be forgotten by the government, when it is the political interest of Europe or the country, then it will be possible to obtain a little support or a few votes. Because there's going to be an international scandal, because what they're doing is just as dirty as setting up administrative courts. If you do not know this on your own, which I doubt, the European Commission has been kind enough to say today: the European Commission stresses the importance of open, competitive funding systems, which can achieve quality research, thus increasing the real impact of funding and strengthening the national research system, and so on and so on. The Charter of Fundamental Rights recognises the freedom of education, research and the freedom of arts and science. The European Commission thus stands for research and scientific freedom and the independence of academic institutions. This is a rather clear message, my fellow Members, and do not point fingers at György Soros and the pro-Migratory EPP, and the devil knows what, when the infringement procedure will begin against you! You are backing out of Europe slowly, step by step, and this is a step. It doesn't matter, it's not important. It's more important that you put your hands on this fortune, by the way. Plus, what a surprise. They're not even telling the truth. For example, they claim that, oh, there will be an incredibly independent tender system that everyone here complains about, and then you will create it. In fact, Congressman was brave enough to say that the National Scientific Council would be there, which will then be full of scientists. Dear fellow Members, At least read your own proposal. The President of the National Scientific Council is the Minister for Science Policy Coordination. I can't say this. You can give him a simpler name. He's ever been a scientist, maybe not today, that's for sure. [[Hey, David Adam: Come on! Nacsa Lőrinc: Don't insult him!]] But there's no guarantee he'll always be. The members and co-chair of the NTT are asked and appointed by the Prime Minister, obviously on the basis of their scientific performance. How do you pick out the next nine members? By giving three members to the economic sphere, these will obviously be excellent scientists, three to the state sphere, these will also be excellent scientists, and there will be three to be given by the scientific sphere, otherwise, on the basis of the election of the Prime Minister. Obviously, the Prime Minister's choices, as always, will be purely scientific performance and autonomy this time. [[19.40]] Dear Friends, This body will be the Prime Minister's home body, his relatives, friends and business partners, as in all such bodies, and it will be good for the child to have a name for the child to beat through the political decisions that you make, and that institutional system will, by the way, essentially control the entire funding system. What I would like to say about the quality of the bill is that, unfortunately, even the exact names of the institutions have not been reached. We haven't been able to tell you exactly what the institutions are that the state wants to take away. You will be able to see, unexpectedly, in the proposals for amendment from the heads of the pro-government representatives, how they will correct what the institutions are called. It's not much of an adventure. After all, why in a Ministry of Science Policy should know exactly what academic institutions there are, but if at least they were lost, they could have taken the trouble to make a current list. Much more is the problem that, contrary to the previous government decision, there is no meaningful R &amp; D and innovation strategy on which this proposal could otherwise be based. It wasn't like that, it wasn't discussed, it wasn't. There's a government decision on it, but unfortunately there's no way to build a restructuring on government decisions. I would not agree to the detailed analysis of the bill itself, especially because it was done by the leaders of the Lendület research groups on the one hand and by the presidency of the Academy of Sciences on the other. I suggest that it may be worth reading this to at least my pro-government colleagues before they press the button as usual. All I want to say is that the purpose of the bill is quite clear, and you are not hiding it. The purpose of the bill is to take control of research and control of funding out of the hands of the scientific community. You think that you and the ministry you run and the excellent government dames in it will know better how to run the research, how to run the institutions. They think this model is gonna be wow, but it's gonna be very effective, and then they're gonna put out applications. What these applications are like, we've seen them not so long ago, and then they're gonna win the classic-exotic, pseudo-scientific institutions they've spawned over the last few years. Obviously, this is one of the aims of the practice so that Hungarians and Veritas and similar pro-government and art-science institutions can receive part of the funding, but frankly, it is a shame to destroy the Academy of Sciences. They could have given them a bigger budget envelope, at least there would have been no harm if there had been no profit here. In summary, I can therefore say that, unfortunately, the proposal, despite all the references and all the other texts that have been submitted to it, and despite the fascinating quotes that I will return to a little later, actually reflects one perfectly clear intention: give me the whole thing! Unfortunately, a smarter man at the Academy General Assembly told me to einstand the whole system. That is what this system is all about, that is what this proposal is all about. Everything else is bullshit! Everything else is just a reference, because they couldn't say that even the Institutes of the Academy of Sciences don't belong to the government, and now it's time. They found all kinds of detour routes for this. However, I would like to say two more things in this regard. One thing is not to pretend that there is some kind of abstract problem here, as if it were about how the institutions should operate. Let me be perfectly clear: we are talking about the fate of 5,000 people here. That is how many people are working today in this institution network, they are the ones from whom Minister has unlawfully taken the funding from at the beginning of this year, they are the ones who have been threatened in the past period, and they are the ones who are now being pushed into a system that cannot be known except that the Minister will depend on the convenience of the Prime Minister behind it. These people do not deserve to be treated this way, and they do not deserve to be treated this way by Hungary, by the way. The other thing I would like to draw attention to is that the consequences of this proposal are quite clear. In the past decade, the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has, in addition to more or less government good intentions and support, fought amazingly to keep young researchers at home, and those who have left will be lured back. The Academy has done a great deal to keep Hungarian science from being empty with the Lendület program and other scholarships. The kind of uncertainty and the kind of procedure that you dealt with the Hungarian Academy of Sciences in this case... because you should not forget that Minister Hiller quoted a long time ago what preparatory work was done between the Academy and the government. They've been negotiating for months, writing professional papers, making partial agreements, and when the Academy General Assembly refused to accept your dictatorship, they kicked it all out. Then the Academy's opinion was wiped out, because of course, you're better at this than anything else. I have to say that not only is there a threat of material vulnerability to scientific researchers in academic institutions today, but also the amazing humiliation and disregard that the whole process represents. And these people are gonna leave because they can, because they're waiting for them, because they're looking for them from Tokyo to San Francisco all over the world! And then you can say what an excellent Member says, that it is okay not to have a basic research, a wide range of basic research, it is a small country, and we will bring it in. I would like to say that if this is really the case, you will sign not only the death sentence of research and development in the wider sense, innovation, but also the death sentence of Hungarian higher education. There will be no quality education here, no research, no innovation if there is no fundamental research. If these people leave this country, Minister, then a future Democratic government will be able to repair this damage in decades with great effort. You're an upside-down Klebelsberg who doesn't build this country and doesn't build science, but destroys it. What you're about to prepare is a national disaster of the same magnitude as Trianon! Ladies and gentlemen, They mentioned a lot of things, I don't want to respond to everything, I'd like to make two brief comments. Congressman Pósán recommends that we study academic reports. It was Mr Pósán who, as chairman of the committee, removed the report of the Academy from the agenda. He was not so interested in these accounts that he would have allowed the Committee on Culture to discuss them in substance. Obviously, this is for a reason, because it would have shown in this report that the allegations on which you are building this bill are circumstantial lies that do not correspond to reality! But you have not even given me the opportunity that, by the way, if the opposition representatives are prepared to do so, then your representatives will be able to discuss the state of the Academy. This procedure, and this shameful procedure, shows that it is not a matter of substantive debate and negotiation, but you have decided in advance that you want to put your hands on the institutional network. There's a debate going on, as I can see in the professional public opinion, about what you're doing with this. They simply do not tolerate anyone being autonomous from you, they do not tolerate it as a party or as a minister in person, otherwise there will be opposition. Some say that this is not the case, but that access to EU R &amp; D funds, which will be opened and unfortunately not directly controlled by your government during the next EU term, is the purpose of this proposal. I don't think they're mutually exclusive. The desire for power and theft are not mutually exclusive, they are hand in hand. That's what this bill is all about. Finally, Mr Pósán and Mr Nacsa also mentioned the extremely unfortunate sentence of former Minister Kóka. Do you know how this story ended? By calling the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and apologizing to him. I suggest that you start with this, too, but it is too late, and then resign, because you are incapable of dealing with Hungarian science in any way. The Democratic Coalition does not simply accept this proposal, but considers it outrageous and will object to it with all possible means both in Hungary and in Europe. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-203	Congressman! I did not stop you during speaking, but I am obliged to warn you afterwards, because you cannot question the status of the scientist, as he is a member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. [[Gergely Harvester: Volt! I didn't say he was never a scientist.]] You should know that you're still a member of the Academy of Sciences, but I'm not gonna discuss that. [[Gergely Arató: I did not dispute this one.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the LMP Group is Mr Lóránt Keresztes. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor. [[19.50]]
u2019-06-12-204	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Before I begin my speech, welcome to Parliament. I'm a little surprised you're here. I am very pleased that there may then be a chance for us to have a debate. I've been looking for you in a lot of cases, I've been interpelled and everything. Usually, Mr Secretary of State will answer for you, but I am very pleased that you are here, and I am asking you here at the beginning of the debate or in the middle of the debate not just for a close, but for a substantive answer to the points. I see you've been busy taking notes. I trust you will answer. I have a question for you right away. In your introductory speech, you spoke about increasing efficiency, increasing competitiveness, making more efficient use of resources. These are totally saving goals. My question, Minister, is that at any time you have received a signal from the administration of the Academy that they do not wish to talk to you about these matters in substance as Minister. I would also like to respond to what the lead speaker of Fidesz, Mr Pósán, has said. He was busy collecting critical comments here on the effectiveness and functioning of the Academy. First of all, may we say that my rhetorical question is that Congressman Pósán is a member of the public body of the Academy - did he at any time make positive comments to the leadership of the Academy as a public body member? My second question, which is no longer a rhetorical question, concerns what Mr Arató said, as well, why he took action to postpone this item at that shameful committee meeting. And if you've been collecting so many critical remarks over the past few years, I'm guessing you've been collecting these quotes day and night, then why weren't you curious as chairman of the committee about the answers of the President of the Academy? Why didn't you give me the opportunity to start a debate about this? Yes, we are debating the most important issue of today's parliamentary day under typical conditions, so as the last item on the agenda. [[Nacsa Lawrence:]] First to last, I'm sorry, but it's already in the evening hours, possibly avoiding the presence of journalists. I very much hope that the Hungarian public will be watching this debate and these events, because it is an issue that I agree with my fellow Member that is indeed a national matter and has been troubling the whole scientific public for about a year. However, it is quite clear what this is about. I think I can say here, as one of the last speakers, that the positions are clear on the part of the opposition, that the position of the government is quite clear, and that parliamentary power is well known. So, in fact, here is the question in this debate, and in the next few days and weeks of debates, that we can create a situation, that we can put forward arguments and that we can create a political situation where the majority of the government, let us say, the Prime Minister, will consider this situation. We are well aware of Viktor Orbán's technique of exercising power: he does not tolerate contradiction, he likes to march through everything by force. At the same time, a small ray of hope was visible today. My fellow Member mentioned the case of the Supreme Administrative Courts. We can say that this was a political historical event, that Viktor Orbán, although for tactical reasons, blew a retreat. I very much hope that, in this case too, Prime Minister, you will re-evaluate the situation and create such an opportunity, as my fellow Member has said, that the government will look at this situation from a slightly larger perspective. Let's see what Viktor Orbán said back in 2016 at the General Assembly of the Academy. I quote the words of Viktor Orbán. We expect the Academy to have a sound warning towards politics: never forget, in order for the nation to rise, it is its duty to support scientific life and to ensure its independence. Unlike so often heard public opinion, we have neither neutral decisions nor choices. Science and politics cannot be self-serving, only for public purposes. It is quite clear that this bill is not for public purposes, it is against our national interests. That's the LMP's point of view. We see that if the government really intended to increase its effectiveness, to implement or catalyse the reforms that my fellow Member spoke of, they would not have launched such a process. They would then have made concrete proposals, sat down, explored possible solutions, and, together with the Academy's leadership and all stakeholders, put forward concrete proposals and solutions. If it were really important for the government to support science, science, they would create a situation or would not leave a situation where, at present, a fellow scientist with university education and a good chance of starting doctoral studies would earn HUF 150,000 net, or a scientist with a scientific degree in general would earn HUF 185 thousand net. If science were important, they would make this situation change. Indeed, it has been said from several of my fellow Members and from statements by the leaders of the Academy that the government has not made any substantive criticism of the operation of the Academy. On the other hand, the president of the Academy was humiliated, citing the darkest communist period and communist procedures, and already with this process, this one-year torture, caused enormous damage. So regardless of the adoption of the bill, they have already caused huge damage to Hungarian scientific life. We can agree with those who say that the real aim is to put the research network under direct political control and thus to achieve control over EU development resources that can be used for science and innovation. I think it is very important that, if you are here, Minister, you should at least argue here on the ground with the statements and arguments that have been made by those concerned. I think it is very important that we refer to the fact that young researchers are the replacement of Hungarian scientific life, and they are in an extremely difficult situation. There are very few, there are fewer and fewer people who choose this profession. I mentioned these salaries, it's quite shocking. Now we can compare it to different professions. I think we can agree that the comparison is shocking. It is important to pay attention to what young researchers say. Not too long ago, the Young Research Academy, a scientific company, was formed, and they formulated their position on the current situation. I'd like to present this to you in detail, at least. They said that the mutilation of the autonomy of Hungarian scientific life to any extent could result in the isolation of researchers staying in Hungary and the loss of their international competitiveness. According to their position, the draft law presented by the Ministry outlines a structure allowing political influence, which could negatively affect the cooperation of the international research community with Hungarian researchers, as well as the opportunities for excellent Hungarian researchers to enter international applications and their chances of winning. There is also criticism of the use of academic property. They do not see how resources would be provided for both the maintenance of wages and infrastructure. There is a very, very sharp criticism that, in addition to the exodus of internationally competitive research leaders, the planned transformations already present a tangible threat to thousands of young researchers in the academic and higher education sectors, which are a key part of domestic research. And what I think should be a fundamental consensus of today's debate is that it is essential to maintain and further enhance the competitiveness of Hungarian science that the current precarious situation is settled in a timely consensus and to create a calm, supportive research environment. So young researchers also want the government to withdraw from this arrogant, dictatorial procedure and launch a real dialogue under the leadership of the Academy. And yes, we have received the letter from President László Lovász, and I, too, am a group leader, and, of course, my fellow Members have come to know him. I think it is important to talk about these points here, which have already been made in part, which have been made by the leadership of the Academy. They also stated that there was no substantive argument on the part of the government as to why the research network should be disconnected and why researchers should be forced to leave the Academy. As to why this is beneficial for keeping the research network inside the Academy, they have put forward arguments. It has also been mentioned that the attachment raises a lot of legal and organisational problems from the date of the validity of research contracts, and other problems that have yet to be answered. With regard to the new research network to be set up, there is a single public task for its secretariat, and the necessary conditions should be provided for MTA. Then why do we need a new organization? They consider it very important that the principle of local government should apply, but they do not see it in the new proposal, the bill does not ensure that the interests of the research network are enforced on behalf of the local government. It has also been said that it is extremely important to keep the elements of the institution's maintenance fixed, and here they draw attention to the need to ensure that the research staff and the staff supporting the research can be paid in order to make this available, so it is not only possible to employ researchers with a project character. On the subject of the MTA's assets, Mr Hiller also spoke about it with a very sharp criticism. They say that what is quite obvious is that MTA has always put its movable and immovable property in the service of science and continues today, and MTA objects to the restriction of its ownership rights without compensation, and according to MTA, this is contrary to the Fundamental Law. The leadership of the Academy also explains that if the bill is adopted in its current form, the freedom of scientific research will be seriously violated and the values of fundamental importance to Hungary will be lost. Indeed, there has been talk about the uproar of international scientific life and the many supporting letters and supporting messages that have come to the Academy. Anyone can see it. My fellow Members, I hope that you will be actively followed here in connection with the events and that you will be monitoring the background. On the MTA website there is a shocking list of various support letters. Letters from renowned researchers at international level can hardly be listed, because hundreds have written letters to the Academy, but I would like to quote some of the organizations that have expressed their support to the Academy, and I would really like to highlight just a few. [[20.00]] Letter from the President of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts, letter from the Association of European Medical Academyes, letter from the President of the Polish Academy of Sciences, statement from the Slovenian Academy of Sciences, statement from the British Academy, statement by the Head of King S College, statement by the presidents of the Norwegian, Turkish, Romanian, Slovak Academy of Sciences and the president of the Czech Academy of Sciences. So there is no international scandal to be expected in this area, but this scandal has already emerged. We believe that the Minister is indeed heavily responsible in this regard, and that the Government is heavily responsible for this arrogant procedure. I ask the Minister to perceive this international uproar, to perceive the uproar of the Hungarian scientific community, and now at least to try to get at least with the intention of damage relief out of this dictatorial procedure, to withdraw this bill, and to engage in a meaningful dialogue in order to achieve the very important goal of improving your efficiency, increasing competitiveness and using resources more effectively. Thank you.
u2019-06-12-205	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Tamás Mellar. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2019-06-12-206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. The draft law before us basically uses as an argument that research institutions are not working well, which is why research institutions need to be transformed. The speakers before me have said on several occasions that this is not really the case, the picture is much more nuanced. After the various changes, this research network is operating more and more effectively, and, as my fellow Member Hiller said, the Joint Committee that examined this, which was requested, also found this. By the way, there are a lot of sections on the website of the Academy about what qualified international publications have been achieved by research institutes in recent years, and that the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is at the forefront in the number of publications per unit budget. In recent years, I have had the opportunity to take a closer look at one or two of the academic research institutes, because I was a member of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee, and we have carried out such investigations, and we have not found that there is a bad job going on there. In fact, compared to the universities, I can say that in many cases there were better results. But, of course, along with that, I think there's always a better way to do it. So I don't dispute the right and the possibility of going back, so let's make some kind of transformation that will make this institutional system better. But I beg you, you can't see the concept, there's no concept of which I can say that it's worth thinking about, and compared to today's operating model, we'll find out which one will be better. The Minister also said that we were following the German model, and that at least two elements of it turned out to be far from following the German model, because, on the one hand, there is no 50 percent in the German model, there is no 50 percent in the governing body, there is no 50 percent in the public participation, there is only 20-25 percent in the public participation, and on the other hand, there is no basic funding in the German model, because there is no basic funding. So to maintain scientific institutions without basic funding, international practice does not really know that. So you can't really see what the concept would be. The leadership of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has also said that there is a lack of a model on which we could talk about, on which it might arise to carry out impact assessments and to prepare what micro- and macro-economic results could come out of this at all. So there's no concept. If there's no concept, then what? It's what the colleagues here have already mentioned. They mentioned there was an einstantial. The thing is, the whole bill doesn't show anything other than the fact that the Ministry wants to get their hands on the research institutions, they want to deprive them of independence, that's all, and that's all. The second argument, which the Ministry also expressed, is the development of innovation and competitiveness as a very important objective. These are indeed very important goals, but the fact is that these objectives cannot be achieved in this way. It's exactly like complaining that I've been to the doctor five times in the last three months, yet my back hurts. It's true that I was at the dentist, but it didn't cure my illness. I am sorry to give you such a primitive example, but I am absolutely shocked at why the Ministry thinks that innovation and competitiveness would result from the transformation of the scientific network. Absolutely not. Innovation obviously fits into a chain of basic research, applied research and innovation. But this is done by starting and reducing basic research and applied research to a significant extent, and replacing innovation, it is exactly like when the gardener begins to carve the fruit tree, saying that he needs an apple, and therefore he will only keep those buds and cut the leaves, and then wonder that it will be nothing. Congressman Nacsa has said that there are some successful basic research, such as basic mathematical research, where there really are positive results, but these are not so important. As regards basic research, or basic research in mathematics, we should remain with the President of the Academy, László Lovász, who is a mathematician, perhaps the best mathematician in the world, but one of the best is certain; I suspect that he is in the first, but certainly in the first three. He has worked at Microsoft in recent years, where, of course, he didn't do basic research, because it turns out that number theory problems can be applied very well in certain security technical matters. And then they called him, and he told me recently, the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton University. This is the institute where Einstein and Neumann, among other things, used to be, could have run a huge grant, and the poor man only did basic research. So there is a very, very close link between basic research and innovation, and it cannot be said that all I need is innovation. Anyway, let's play with the idea, let's assume that a good fairy will help us and say that from tomorrow we will have 100 very good inventions, very good innovations. Minister, do you think this will improve the country's competitiveness? Competitiveness is another thing. Competitiveness at microlevel depends on the ability of the business community to introduce and apply new techniques, technologies, new products, new organisational and operational processes that it can actually stop on the market and compete with its competitors. At macro level, it means that the economy of that country is able to produce more exports than it needs to import. [[20.10]] What is needed is to have high added value, to have high productivity and to have a modern economic structure. With regard to the Hungarian economy, they are not at all up. It has also been said that one of my fellow Members mentioned that from the corporate sector, from the corporate sector that has been selected in recent years with a contrast, those businesses have become the most successful and most effective companies that have achieved monopoly and oligopol positions in this state redeployment system, they cannot be expected to be the leaders of innovation from tomorrow onwards and to be able to enter innovation. So I think it is a very vain fantasy to think and expect this transformation to improve competitiveness. Competitiveness depends on something else. And, of course, competitiveness and innovation would require a great deal of improvement in human capital and the state of human capital, but unfortunately, it can be seen that this has been the most powerfully destroyed by the government in recent years. If none of the reasons exist, then what is it that really moves the Ministry to make the transition? One of the things that has also been said is that the government does not tolerate independent institutions, and these independent institutions, which can be critical of the government's work, are trying to grind them up. Here we are practically back in time until seventy years ago, 1949, because in 1949 there was such a brutal, so drastic attack on Hungarian science and Hungarian scientific life. It is very interesting, however, that the similarity between the Hungarian Scientific Council set up in 1949 and the National Science Policy Council set out in this Act can be compared, because both set the same goal, the same impossible goal, at the time, that it is designed to control the working of theoretical and applied sciences at the top. If, instead of writing it as planned, it controls theoretical and applied sciences at the top for innovation, then we are exactly where we should be, that is, seventy years later. So I think that this road has been proven once that this road is not viable, I don't know why the government would still want to stay on this road. And the other thing that can really move and move this whole transformation is money. Of course, one of the elements is the transfer of budget money to the private sector, to the entrepreneurial circle that represents a privileged role. There are good examples of this at the university, since one of the elements of the Chancellor's system is precisely to open up the opportunity for the entrepreneurial sphere to come to it. They couldn't do this so far with regard to academic institutions, because such a system didn't work there, and then it actually works in the new system. The second is the channelling and draining of EU funds, as in the next budget period, more and more money will get directly to the institutions and will not go through the government. Consequently, they can be obtained and obtained by obtaining these institutions and then by pumping these funds out by the beneficiary circle in certain forms of cooperation. However, these things are very well seen by the participants, and I could quote the hard criticism of the Stadium 28 groups, then the Group of Motion, or the signatories who wrote a letter to Manfred Weber to try to intercede in this case, and almost everywhere it is said that this whole transformation is illegal, this is unconstitutional. Consequently, the Dialogue cannot accept this law and we will appeal to the Constitutional Court for redress. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-06-12-207	Thank you very much, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. This is the first time you have applied to an independent Member, Mrs Bernadett Szél. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2019-06-12-208	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr Palkovics, now that you are here, I can say that I am the one who apologizes to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, because I think that you will not do this, even though you are the culprits about the fact that such a bill could be brought before this House. The image burned into the retinas, and my ears still hear the voices he said when he said that if he couldn't bring the Hungarian Academy of Sciences to its knees, then he would solve it by law with the help of the majority of them in Parliament. We are experiencing the overture of this here in Parliament. I think the kind of disrespect you're doing to scientists is predicting your loss, because there's the expression that you don't respect God or man, and I think that you really respect no one and nothing anymore. Today is especially a black day in the history of Parliament, we talked about many serious things, and serious decisions were made. With regard to the Academy, I can tell you that this is a national institution with a history of 200 years. This is one of the cornerstones of our national sovereignty, part of our identity, and we would not be able to talk about Hungarian science if this institution were not, and you are ruining it now. The greatest Hungarian created it, they say, and I do not think that the Hungarian who now leads this country as Prime Minister, and his arms bearer would succeed in destroying this institution. We're gonna fight to the point of nails and to the last bullet. The Constitutional Court here, Professor Mellar, has just said that we are going to turn there, and I certainly support it, and the opposition can do this together. Of course, it may be the fate of this, as it was for the CEU to be parked, I don't know, I don't want to advance, in any case, we will fight for justice in both domestic and international forums, because we have something to fight for and for whom we have to fight. We're two years after the CEU's death bill's trial. This was then put on the agenda of Parliament in an exceptional procedure, and it was expected that you would not be satisfied with it, because where such a proposal goes through, where once the science has been struck, you will continue the campaign afterwards. I can't think with your brain, and I don't want to. [[Gergely Harvesto: That's not even possible.]] The truth is, there are very serious problems there, but I can see that everyone is guessing why they're doing this. Several versions have come up here that you need money, or that autonomy is disturbing you, or that you can't force someone on their knees, or that basic research is interfering with you, a lot has come up here. I think that all of this can be pretty much true together, because the whole of Fidesz's philosophy is based on the ability of autonomous thinking and independent critical opinion-making to be a factor for you that you want to destroy, which you want to suppress. Free-thinking intellectuals are poison to you, and you want to control virtually everything. Now the Hungarian science en globe, overall, is on your target, and now they really don't watch what they're doing. So the ugly thing is that one of the most important figures and figures of international scientific life, the president of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, is thrown out of a so-called Cultural Committee, I think that this is one of those black days in the Hungarian Parliament, I couldn't watch that video enough, and I recommend it to you, Minister, it's amazing what you're doing. So it's so ugly that I can really say I'm sorry because I feel second-guessed by you guys. All in all, I'd like to say that I'm terribly proud of the Academy. They fought this year with honor, didn't back down, didn't compromise, stood up for their right, stood up for themselves, stood up for each other, stood up for Hungarian science. I've been at almost every protest, I've followed every step of this whole story, and I can really tell you that you've been set up by the academic staff. Many people are set an example of standing up and determination. There, at one of the protests, there was a banner that there was no freedom without courage, and I repeat it to myself every day, and I also ask my fellow Members to give us the guiding principle in the next period, because I think that academic workers know exactly where to go and that it is not a shame to follow academic people. [[20.20]] By the way, some of you may know that we are actually talking about my former workplace; before my political career, I was a young researcher at the supported research institute of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and I worked there for years, and unlike those government politicians and government politicians who are the executioners of their former university, I am very proud of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and I am very proud of the people who have endured and persisted there, so I also send them a message from the Hungarian Parliament: all my compliments to you, all my compliments to you. Educational scientific freedom is a baseline. This means that you have a one-party Fundamental Law, let's just call it your Fundamental Law, but it's still in this, so we could say earlier with Professor Mellar and several in the speeches that our claim will stand before the Constitutional Court. What's going to happen there is no longer our business, they're going to do it, but it's going to stop what we write in it. Moreover, what you are doing is contrary to the Treaty of the European Union. I can now assure you that there will be consequences for every forum that exists. By the way, I find it infinitely absurd when it comes to international forums, that one day the Hungarian Parliament will discuss the withdrawal of Fidesz from the administrative courts, in which it seems that they want to comply with the rule of law, and then, for a few hours, practically, it will launch an attack on Hungarian scientific life that is already underway in an international scandal. This is a high school of hypocrisy, Minister. There are three fundamental problems with the law, briefly and succinctly: occupation, bleeding and expropriation. This can be explained longer, and I will, because you have no arguments. The bullshit goes on; we will also talk about what the content of it is. But the fact that you separate the research network from the Academy and outsource it to the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, and it has a governing body of 13, where the delegates of the Academy will be in a minority, the research network will not be directly represented, virtually the members will be appointed by Viktor Orbán about this story. You can't live with that, that's right. Moreover, the basic funding is not guaranteed. The proposal concerns the maintenance of the institution, but it does not provide for wages, and it requires continuous, predictable and safe operation, which is not guaranteed by the bill. And there is the expropriation, as the stakeholders themselves have put it, the einstand. The fact that they give wealth to the state free of charge for an indefinite period of time is basically nationalization. It has been in Hungary, we remember it, but even your Fundamental Law states that the arbitrary expropriation of property without compensation and compensation is prohibited. With the MTA, you wouldn't be able to do that if you were to comply with the laws, if the Government of Hungary were to comply with the laws. We didn't hear any argument here either. The reading session that was held here by KDNP and Fidesz colleagues is not an argument for me. The Minister spoke for seven and a half minutes. No wonder you didn't tell me any more, you should've told me that in public. In the words of László Lovász, the answer is only. There is no professional decision preparation, there is no impact assessment, there is no strategy developed, there is only you, Minister; visions, ambitions, there are, but you do not support Hungarian science, you are attacking Hungarian science. And then there's the universal argument. In Hungary, many of us liked the word innovation, and then you came, and this word was violated. I'm very sick of it now, because in the Fidesz, NER speech, it's now a word that doesn't reflect its original meaning, so to speak. However, you say, Minister, that the Hungarian innovation performance is poor and that the research system must be reorganised. There are more problems with that. One of the problems is that you want to see research at all costs, you don't like basic research. Understand, Minister, it is not up to the Academy to produce intelligent self-driving cars. It's not the Academy's job. It's not that simple. Many Members have referred to why fundamental research is important, and this country cannot ignore it. The second problem is that you are responsible for innovation performance, and the Government of Hungary is responsible for the country's innovation performance. You have been ruling this country for almost ten years, what is happening here is that you want to pin your own responsibility on the Hungarian Academy of Sciences while spending hundreds of billions of dollars on R &amp; D each year. Where are the results, Minister? Where are the results? ! You spent this money. Let's take a look around the Prime Minister's family, his business partners, his friends, his stromants, and the ministers who sit in the velvet chair; billion-dollar inventors. Antal Rogán is an inventor, isn't he? You could read about it. Where is all this money, Minister? Why do you ask at the Hungarian Academy of Sciences to account for the money your playmates have stolen over the past few years? I think that we should not be talking about this bill here in this House, but we should be talking about you, but one by one. If it weren't for your people everywhere, we would have done this already, but what's late will come, and our time will come. Now you feel that this is your time, but anyone who submits such bill will cut the wood. Where is there a man or a group in this country who has not been insulted, who has not been destroyed, who has not been ignored? ! Where are these people? There are fewer and fewer such people, Minister. I can say that there is no responsibility for the Hungarian Academy of Sciences because you did not use the resources for research and development as intended. I would like to quote here that these scientists, scientists and scientists have done a lot in recent years to improve the performance of innovation rankings. There is the European Commission's survey published a year ago, in which it was found that the situation of domestic innovation had even deteriorated compared to 2010. Of course, there's a barbecue, but I think we should check it out. We are currently the 21st in the EU Innovation Ranking, which is a two-place slippage compared to 2010. The EU, more specifically, has examined 27 areas that have an impact on how innovative a country is. This includes the performance of the academic sphere, the development of SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises, the proportion of participants in higher education, the public R &amp; D expenditure, a lot of things. What the experts have been able to measure in terms of improvement in the field of academic research, as mentioned here, the number of publications, the number of prestigious publications, has increased. What we have done badly is what you are responsible for, Minister: the number of students in higher education, the amount of public R &amp; D expenditure, the innovation performance of small and medium-sized enterprises and the number of companies that spend a lot on R &amp; D. Technically, the latter shows that you have made Hungary a assembly country instead of strengthening the capacity to generate domestic capital. So we're doing wrong in exactly the areas over which you disposal. The spending on R &amp; D was 1.39 per cent in 2013 and only 1.21 per cent in 2016 respectively. Then why is the Academy to blame? Who decides the budget? László Lovász? No! We decide here, and there are many of you. So what I can tell you is that you can make mistakes and you can make mistakes. The poor nature of innovation performance in Hungary is closely linked to economic policy, and with the economic policy developed by Fidesz in Hungary, this preference for low added value production, the, assembly-running-Hungary, the fact that you conclude strategic alliances with tncs, transnational companies, while the competitive disadvantage of small and medium-sized enterprises is increasing, the fact that R &amp; D has been neglected to a great extent, that they have made higher education pay, that they are playing austerity with Hungarian students in higher education, that they are bleeding and ruining Hungarian universities. So, Minister, I offer you an innovation: tidy up these areas. You sit at the government meeting, make sure that these things work well, there will be an innovation in Hungary that this country has never seen before. But I ask you very much, and I ask you to take your hands off the Hungarian Academy of Sciences.
u2019-06-12-209	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. Brenner Koloman is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-12-210	Thank you for the floor. I would like to add a very small addition to my speech as a keynote speaker, on the one hand I would like to raise the name of the planned Eötvös Loránd Research Network, which has not yet been included among the topics proposed for consideration, since I would like to point out that the name of Baron Eötvös Loránd, member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences and his former president, bears the names of many types of institutions in Hungary today, including my university, which is why this name is of great concern, but I would like to note this as a little colour. [[20.30]] Once again, I would like to ask the Minister, as I have explained in my keynote speakers, to lift this crisis of confidence that comes from what I have quoted, that you promised at the Academy General Assembly that you would not take away the supervision of research networks from the Academy, but you have kicked it. And I think it is quite clear that there is a question here that you can solve. I also understand, and several of my fellow Members here in their speeches have indicated that this is clearly also seen in the context of Fidesz's re-suspension to the current European People's Party. We know that President Lovás is considering his resignation, this is a very serious issue, Minister. I understand that there is room for manoeuvre here, and I ask you to take advantage of this opportunity, Minister, because I think that Hungarian scientific life and the case of MTA are worth significantly more than that. I think it's very, very important to have such a clear direction here. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] to show the Minister, which points towards a solution. Thank you.
u2019-06-12-211	Thank you very much, Congressman. There will be regular speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-12-212	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, When Lőrinc Nacsa spoke, my fellow Members and I smiled at the fact that, at the trial of the law before the previous one, János Kóka was still a negative example of what he spoke as Minister of Economy, and then suddenly became a reference point in your comment, I would add, with the same stupidity he spoke at the time. What I can tell you is that stupid speech is party neutral, so regardless of whether a socialist government minister says that or if it's a fidesz, it can still be stupid. I would just like to add this to you as an explanation why, how should I say, we yelled at you when you mentioned János Kóka's medals, although, as I hear, today he is rewarded with diplomatic passports rather than with anything else. The other question is, it's very interesting how your opinion of another person changes. This is József Pálinkás, a former Fidesz Member of Parliament, who became President of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences during our government with quite serious Fidesz support. Rather, I would like to quote a short quote from this article to Minister Palkovics, as follows, on 11 June Origo wrote about an old fellow Member, a fellow politician of Fidesz: József Pálinkás entered Fidesz with the aim of gaining power and having over billions of forints. However, the former politician did not become either an EU Commissioner or a President of the Republic, and was even relieved of his position because of his incompetence. The Academy should also be renewed because, immediately after its appointment, Pálinkás took power and made it one-maned to turn it into an insider money-sharing place. However, his calculations did not work, so Pálinkás began a campaign of slander against the government and against László Palkovics, out of revenge. From here, there is a Jewish speculator György Soros who attacks his own people, and here there is a hungry former Fidesz scientist who also attacks his own people. I have only quoted this to you, Mr Palkovics, because it is a serious fact that the Prime Minister has been trained to raise and throw people away, and therefore a way of life that you may not always be worth risking. I could give you another example in the case of Paul Schmitt, but let me not comment on this now, because that is not what today's proposal is about. I must admit, when you were appointed Minister or former Secretary of State, it may be weird to hear this from an opposition representative, and I hope you won't have any trouble with that, then I thought it was a good choice. And now I'm saying this personal comment very frankly, because by reading it, by studying your way of life, your experience, your knowledge, what you've put on the table in the field of economy and science, I think it's hard to question. I do not agree with the critical comments that a fellow opposition Member has just made. Please, you're a serious man, and your performance is something you have to pay attention to. That's why I'm basically curious, and here, on the basis of your comments, and after your really fast-feared introduction, I was wondering if you believe that this concept that you should represent is right now. Honestly, I'm really concerned about this, because I'm quite certain that you know better than I am that I'm just a Ph.D. student with an absolutorium, so I didn't know that I was too lazy to write my Ph.D. dissertation, but I was interested in research and science, even if at the basic level, I'm sure you know better than I am that there is no applied research without basic research. You also know that Hungarian competitiveness or innovation potential does not depend on the organizational structure of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, or just what new advice we create, who guides how many people are delegated to it. So I'm pretty sure your knowledge is much deeper than that. In fact, I would even say here a fellow Member, perhaps a better fellow Member, has just said that you have broken one of the promises you made earlier, which I read in a letter from the President of the Academy of Sciences that you said you did not want to separate these research institutes. You know, my fellow Member Brenner Koloman, I would say that I think the Minister meant it, then he knew he didn't want it, but then they told him he wanted it. [[Expansion in the opposition parsors.]] For this reason, I think that we are being a little unfair when we throw all these criticisms into the Minister's neck, because the real person responsible for this measure is called Viktor Orbán, Prime Minister of the Republic of Hungary, who is taking a fight with his minister, and who is taking it away with the minister who, by the way, is coming from among the people he wants to beat up now. I think it would be an infinitely shameful, cowardly act, and it would be much easier if the Prime Minister himself agreed to do this, and not to burn a highly talented and knowledgeable expert on this cross, because you will burn on this cross, and you will not be remembered by your colleagues. If I may say so, to the club where you were allowed to enter, where I and here, with one or two exceptions, are unofficial, you belong to this club, but you can't go into this club, or if you go in there, you'll be talking behind your back. So let me ask you one more time, maybe you'll consider it, and the record will tell you how much you believe in it... you know what? Don't answer it, because you don't have to, but someday, when you're no longer a minister, I'll ask you the same question, how you believed in the credibility of this concept. The other question: it seems to me that this amendment of the law, this initiative, is a very precise vision or snapshot of the way this government governs, because everything is in it, as Viktor Orbán used to do things in Hungary. First he tries to make a request, then he tries a little shopping, but if it doesn't work, then he comes in with a club or a heart shovel, chasing people who disagree with him. I think it's a character, I don't think there's a lot of deep thought behind it, but the character of Fidesz is such that it only understands from the power, only from the conflict, so I don't think it's surprising that the problems are not with dialogue or cooperation or with co-operation or compromise, don't give, God would try to resolve them by seeking consensus, but rather with a gun, force or a drum machine gun. For this reason, I think that, as many people have listed, it might be worth examining a little more clearly that the idea of freedom, autonomy and dialogue is facing one another with the idea of money, power and control. This is a completely opposite approach, the second is much closer to or more precisely describe autocracy than democracy. I think that the points that are about, and have already been discussed in more detail here by several Members, which is why I would not go too far, but I think that the money is about what Tamás Mellár was talking about, because access to EU funds and not only access to EU funds, Professor, but also the amount of it, because the EU budget will have more strong resources for innovation issues, and it will be more tied to how, in what depth and how they can be spent is a serious financial opportunity or a profit opportunity. I trust that Lőrinc Mészáros does not go on the path of science, although I have always said that he has a cathedral for him at the university of economics, because anyone who is capable of such success will be the richest man in the country in such a short time should be educated at the university of economics, or here in Harvard Business School, too, we know for sure because we know that he is smarter than Zuckerberg. [[20.40]] The other is the question of power. Again, I could say that nationalisation in Hungary has never, in any way, increased competitiveness in life. So somehow, we're a country where we centralize where we nationalize and build big systems like this, and it just dies. I would add that this is government neutral, there has been a serious effort in our period to not know what systems to centralise. Now, when this was finally done, the reform was carried out, and from then on it was guaranteed not to work. So the fact that competitiveness, efficiency or even transparency will be enhanced by the fact that the state is taking control of this issue directly, I think that the Hungarian historical traditions have never proven it. And the third is control. This has also been partly mentioned, several researchers have written, said that social research is felt most at risk, as there is so much talk about applied research that many believe that social research is in danger, since it is less profitable immediately. And many also assume that there is a intention of power or control in this, which is about whether, indeed, that it does not, it seems to me that Viktor Orbán has difficulty with criticism. In Hungarian, when social research appears and is not favourable to Fidesz, they make a pretty serious effort to discredit it or, if appropriate, eliminate the group of researchers that did this, instead of thinking about the nature of this social criticism or of this result, because of it, and perhaps, as I have just mentioned by dialogue, by cooperation, they would eliminate the damage and thus put together a modern, forward-looking set of government steps for the Hungarian people, Hungarian society. So, overall, I wanted to draw attention to this, too, that there is a clear vision of how Viktor Orbán governs; this amendment clearly describes how an autocratic arrangement thinks, not only about the freedom of science or the freedom of education, or the freedom of the civil community, or the freedom of the media, or the freedom of speech, but also how to crush and break up every resistance, every collaboration. And I think that my fellow Member, Mr Bernadett Szél, has a point, who said that there is indeed an exemplary cooperation among the leaders and researchers of the Academy of Sciences. I'd say that maybe if we focus on that, we're definitely on the right track. It may not be the opposition representatives who are interested in this, because I have seen many times, tried to cast that curse on it, or throw that mud at the leadership of the Academy of Sciences, especially Mr President, that the opposition representatives are in charge of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Please, if we could control so many scientists, we'd be in control if we were so talented and capable. So I think that, unfortunately, the opposition cannot be accused of manipulating the scientific community in such a professional way and using these people for its own purposes. I think it's more about standing up for themselves. And in an autocratic system, this type of stand is even more dangerous, for it even eventually gives an example to people working in other sectors. Therefore, Carthage must perish, whatever the rationality in this matter. I, of course, can call on Minister, but most of all the Prime Minister, let me say once again that he withdraws this law, while I know precisely that what we are saying is pea on the wall, this law must go through the House for the reasons that we have just listed. I would like to conclude with what I have started with: Minister, I wish you very, very much that you should not proceed as many of your predecessors, that after passing such a law, you will be to blame, because the king can never be to blame. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2019-06-12-213	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Szabolcs Szabó is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-12-214	Thank you very much for the floor. Actually, I could be grateful to the government for the last year, because many years ago, our search has been in my head for the past year. Because it happened that we were preparing for the anniversary of the establishment of the Department of Social and Economic Geography of ELTE, and because there weren't very much materials in the department, so a colleague and I decided to start going to the archives, to the archives, to the Geographical Museum, and we are trying to collect all sorts of collections and write down the many seven decades, the events that we obviously didn't know personally, since the former colleagues didn't live very well. We were confronted then, we heard it in more detail, as a legend, but when you hold the documents in your hand, it's so shocking, so, we were confronted with what happened to our department and our department head in the late 40s. Tibor Mendöl, one of the most respected Hungarian social geographyists, acted on the issue of the establishment of the Hungarian Scientific Council and the restructuring of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences by dropping him off from the Academy. And I couldn't really understand it, I couldn't understand it myself, I couldn't quite figure out exactly what was the driving force behind it. And that's why I should be grateful, because I understand now, and that's what we've been talking to colleagues for months now, that they were able to do it then and they're doing it now because they can stand up and they're happy and they're smug and they can say that because we can do it, they can just do it. No arguments, no arguments. Here, the fellow Members have analysed this for a long time, so I wouldn't go along with it, because they have no arguments, specifically. When this whole process started, they came with people that the government wanted to tell us what the Academy and its research institutes were looking for. If there's an order, that's what they've been doing. For example, in connection with the expansion of the Paks power plant, I know specifically that several research institutes, such as geography, have carried out long studies on the government's order, because it is relatively difficult to expect geography to produce industrial rights, protection or patent. By the way, I am always amazed at the fact that my fellow historians, such as László Pósán, he is a historian, I remember well, at the University of Debrecen, a professor who missed the fact that the MTA and its research network are not competitive, and so is the economy. And then, say, the new name of Eötvös Loránd Research Network of Humanities Research Institute will defend the battle of Mohács, or what will you do? It's a little more complicated and complex than that. That sounds very good, too, Lőrinc Nacsa, who obviously doesn't know how to do it, very cleverly, cleverly, puffing these balloons. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Oh, how cheap!]] And László Pósán is in on it, and he knows it's not really an argument. By the way, if anyone reads carefully and accurately, for example, the MTA's reports on their own performance and on the performance of Hungarian research, which they need to put on Parliament's table every two years, you can see that it is a compact material, quite critical of itself, and quite critical of higher education, too, it is critical of the current government, of course, but overall, it is relatively well possible to conclude from those reports and reports that this is a more or less efficient organization. [[20.50]] Obviously, everything can be improved, even the efficiency of companies who are looking at the effectiveness of firms and the efficiency of all kinds of institutions can be improved. It's not that. But to take out sentences and to say what Lőrinc Nacsa did, by the way, that the MTA is saying about itself that he is not effective and that he is working poorly, that is, to say the least, distortion, and then I put it very gently. You have to read that report thoroughly, not read sentences. Here, read it. ERC applications, publications, all science metrics, so it's a little more complicated than talking about protections and patents. Let's leave that to the trolls on Facebook, but that's a good argument for them. On the other hand, it is only a question of such a conceptual nature and, of course, I know that Minister is thinking about this in a different way than the majority of the actors of Hungarian science, this is a living debate, this is without doubt. There is a part of it, and let's be honest, at the moment this is the greater part of Hungarian science, which does not believe that the research institute network should essentially serve economic interests, and that industrial rights must be generated there, patents and protections in Hungarian. The reason I think this is because research and development is not an exclusively public task, for example, private companies play a role in this. Because if a company needs any new development, say, rail brake equipment, to say something a little closer to the Minister's territory, or any vehicle engineering development, Lambda probe, or I don't know, I'm saying things about RGB valves, although I don't think I do, because I don't know about them, then these companies are going to develop them. That is why it is in the world, I say this to my fellow Members, who may have dealt with this less, that in a developed country, two thirds of research and development expenditure is generally financed by the private sector and around one third by the state. Nowhere do they expect the R &amp; D activities carried out from state resources to keep themselves from protections and patents, because that is not their job. I think that is what the majority of the Hungarian scientific community thinks, and of course we know that that is not what Minister thinks, and thinks that all economic interests must be served first and foremost. What I can tell you is that you'll have to spend money on it. Lőrinc Nacsa said that more money, more research, here, establish research institutes where protections and patents will be created, and then we will have a very good debate here in Parliament, when the budget comes and the next year the report of why the state spends on patents and patents from which the automotive company will be rich, because it would be his job to do it anyway. Plus, they've done the same thing before, because this self-driving car center has already gone in this direction, and I'm telling you, I'm having a little bit of a hard time accepting it, but they've done it, and we can argue about it. There is such a thing, but it is not necessarily necessary to sacrifice the research network of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences on the altar. Speaking of name, Minister Loránd Eötvös kept saying research networks. I watched him on purpose, he said that every time, and that's not what the law says, because there's a research network there. On the one hand, which one will be of interest to me, and on the other hand, taking away the bread of linguists is not in line with the rules of the Hungarian language, because the network of Eötvös Loránd research institutes would probably be in line with the language rules a little bit more, but this should also be taken into account. Of course, I could blubber here for a long time, and then they would rightly say, and of course, of course, they will say that it's good, of course, but you're an opposition representative, and we don't think we don't agree, you're not telling the truth, bye-bye. Yeah, okay. Don't listen to me as an opposition representative. Don't listen to me as a scientist. It's okay. Listen to the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, its president, its chairman and its general assembly. Quite clear letters have been drafted, a resolution has been drawn up and a decision has been adopted. Thus, the legitimate representation of the Hungarian scientific community, since it is a decision adopted by delegates elected by more than ten thousand members of the public body and the position of the leaders elected by them that is more legitimate in the world, they clearly told Minister that he was sent a message, publicly and by all means: they thank me very much for the opportunity, but they would not ask for it in this way. If you have any ideas, suggestions, sit down, discuss, discuss, make arguments. They didn't. That's what they say! Why you can't talk to each other, that's what you solve between yourselves, but the thing is, if the best physicist in the world is saying that you weren't willing to negotiate or make an argument on the merits, I'd rather believe him than you. Excuse me. I'm not questioning your scientific degree, of course. That's not what this was about before I might get a warning. I would just like to draw everyone's attention here to one thing: what the Hungarian Academy of Sciences says. They make clear, simple things up. On the one hand, they said very clearly that they could not understand under what conditions and how this Eötvös Loránd Research Network would operate. They make it clear that they think their local government is being damaged. They clearly describe that they will be limited in the exercise of their ownership and clearly state that they do not see wage as guaranteed. The problem is that this is clearly understood by someone who may still be watching this debate, that over the last few months, you have been in constant conversations with your friends and colleagues who work in such an academic research facility, that we sit at a table, we raise our heads, and we talk about what will happen, not in two years' time, but what will happen in a month's time. Do they get paid? He's gonna win the competition right now, which he's put on a scholarship or a foreign application, because if he doesn't win, he doesn't know how he's gonna raise the kid with what. So that's the kind of problem they caused. I'm sure that's what you sense, Minister, that there's such uncertainty. There's no way to deny that. I'm sure that's caused by it. There's gotta be a way to settle this. They're not gonna settle this with this law-modifying guy. They're gonna put a tacepao out there and say we won. But I'm sure they'll be very happy, and I'll sign this, but they're not going to solve this uncertainty. We need a much clearer, clearer message. I think it's relatively simple things, at least if they're willing to do so, it could be arranged. So, even in this situation, if they were to say, say, that they would vow to have one third, one third, one third, one third of the ratio, they would be able to bring a significant peace of mind into the system. Or if I hope in the National Scientific Council that I remember his name well, which is going to happen, they'd open it up a little bit, and let's just say there they'd say that the president of the Academy would delegate an iks member, and that's what I'm talking about. I talk about the future of Hungarian science from about 5,000 families, which rests partly on these people. If you could send such tiny messages, we'd be moving forward. Because we're really not moving forward by inviting László Lovász in and sending him out of the room. I hope that Minister has also reprimanded his Secretary of State, reassure me that it is not necessarily necessary to say that László Lovász is not telling the truth, and I hope you have spoken to Mr President that it was not the best idea to say that we should not continue here. It's not okay, they're making things worse, they're making things worse, they're making things worse, they're not solving the situation, that's the big problem. That's why I'm asking you to at least try to send me subtle messages, because this isn't going to end well. It's very simple, I've been talking to a lot of colleagues over the last few weeks, and they're thinking with a little kid about where to move out. [[21.00]] That's what they did. I think we need to change that a little bit. You should probably be a little more open to non-engineering science. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2019-06-12-215	Thank you very much. Mr. László Pósán is next. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-216	Thank you, Mr. President. I didn't ask for two minutes because there were several comments that I think we need to respond to. First, allow me to comment on the meeting of the Cultural Committee. Dear House, The following was not mentioned by opposition fellow Members, namely that there were doubts about a number of data concerning this report by the Academy. On the other hand, doubts were raised as to the reality of the claims made in the academic report. Such ambiguous findings were made in the report that, for example, the number of teachers and researchers working in higher education is constantly decreasing, while data from both my personal university experience and the HCSO data and the Rector Conference report the opposite. There have been findings that the number of students who have obtained a scientific degree is constantly decreasing, while the available KSH data, the data of the Education Office, are showing virtually the opposite of the university data. I am not saying that this is a very fast growth, but the trend itself is a different direction, and what was even more painful is that there was a serious conflict between academic reports. For example, the report submitted to Parliament or the report given by the Secretary-General at the General Assembly of the Academy shows a thousand differences in the number of people employed. Well, that's not little, let's be honest. It was quite simply a point of order from the President to give the Academy the opportunity to add or correct any additions to his report, if you wish, because no one else could do so, but the person who submitted this particular proposal. We did not send the President of the Academy, but we essentially suspended the item on the agenda, and we will return to this at some point in the autumn. So it is good to talk about them objectively in this sense. But there have been a number of points that I think it is appropriate to comment on. Szabolcs Szabó said what the Institute of Humanities Research does when innovation and others are on the table. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are two types of funds in the bill, from which different types of research can be financed. One specifically refers to the one that can finance research of this nature. It is also clear from the bill, it can essentially be made as some kind of model, in this respect as a model, it follows the logic of the Max Planck Institute. Anyone who thinks that the Max Planck Institute doesn't have social or humanities, archaeological or other research, is wrong, because there are very serious researches like this. If someone thinks again what the MTA communication contains, and I am personally surprised that the draft law on the transformation of the organization, i.e. the transformation of the research organisation, violates the freedom of scientific research, well, please, in France the academy does not have a research network. There, the research network is practically under the supervision of the Ministry of Higher Education for Research and Innovation, and thank you very much, by chance, no one is saying that the freedom of research is being violated. In fact, I understand that there are around 6500 patents and 1,200 living licenses for own revenue for this research network, and not a small part of its budget is state aid, and 2.7 out of the EUR 3.5 billion, but the rest of its own revenue comes from this. No one there thinks that because the research network doesn't belong to the academy, it would be the end of the world from now on. Here in Hungary, however, it is the case that there are no additional sources of intellectual property, i.e. patents or licenses, to the academic research network. On the other hand, if we are looking for the answer that there is a good example of applied research and basic research, one of which is whether or not it can not follow, or if these are exclusion factors, I would like to draw attention to the fact that in today's university world we can already find some good examples of this. There's basic research, there's applied research, and there's money in it. We can find examples of this in many universities. In many cases, this has come up by other laws, and I do not wish to bring that up again. But it is certainly true that it is a long journey. The pharmacologist is very aware that roughly ten thousand molecules will have one or two that they will be able to use for substance, and as long as it becomes a drug, that's a long time, but they still work somewhere. If there is an appropriate industrial and economic interface, and a number of universities have already created this, it will also provide a number of inspirations and additional revenue, from which you can finance things that are, if you will, part of the basic research. From this point forward, the question is that from the point of view of basic research, which I have always said is that this could be the main task of the Academy, I do not want to go into this debate, but we should think about it in one respect. The secretary-general's reports, the secretary-general's reports at the academic assemblies, which also contain figures on the activities of the research network, do not always come back in the proposals submitted to Parliament, so they are about to see the pace at which the publication activity has been decreasing since the 2010s. Not all fields are the same, and not all universities are the same, but his trend was to decrease. Now there's a slow rise stage. I propose that Congressman Mellar study the Secretary-General of the General Assembly of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences... [[Dr. Tamás Mellar: I was in the seat!]] Read it. Read it. It's got the numbers in it pretty clearly, I know, broken down into territory. From now on, if we think about it and compare it to, say, university research areas, then we see that once again not going into different fields of science, but there is about form-form performance on one side or on the other, in one case the main occupation is research, and in the university world the main occupation is education, examination and research, of course. According to KSH, teachers in the university world can devote about 35 percent of their working time to research. In the academic world, this should normally be 100 percent. The academic world also works in this respect by a lot of people going to universities to teach, which in itself is okay if they can pass on this knowledge, but let's also say that practically the educational activity there means a separate remuneration, which, of course, does not exist in the university sphere, because the two have to be cultivated together. I'm just saying these things so that we can know and know them as well. Of course, it cannot be ignored what Bernadett Szél said that this is a 200-year-old institution, and it is terrible that this is being eradicated. Please, that's not the case. The Hungarian Science Society is 200 years old. That's right. The existence of the Hungarian Science Society is not questioned in any way by this law. And the research network that we are having now, if you will, was built between 1949 and 57. This isn't an academy founded by Széchenyi. The academy founded by Széchenyi is a scientific company. Once again, it is possible to argue, of course, about the way and performance of the research network, but the decision on that question or the answer to that question at all, the freedom of science and research is affected by organization when we try to build it according to the best models in the West, I think it is far from reality, and it is explicitly, clearly said by political blindness. It's worth thinking about. What Attila Mesterházy said was to seek consensus and negotiate, and I would just like to draw attention to the fact that the various negotiations took place roughly over a year. It is also good to recall that the agreements or, if you like, consensual proposals that the Presidency has managed to conclude with the wallet, have been fired precisely by the academic assembly. We can find examples of this in many cases. So it wouldn't hurt to keep them all in mind. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-12-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Szabolcs Szabó for a two-minute speech. Here you go. [[21.10]]
u2019-06-12-218	Thank you very much. Just a few little things. I already said at the committee meeting that we should go through these data, because I think this depth of science is not so difficult to decipher. We could have put together the cause of the problem at the committee meeting. For example, it does not matter whether the number of employees, the number of researchers, is translated to full-time or by contract number. For example, a thousand-person difference comes right out. Because in the department and obviously you must also report to the HCSO on research and development by counting the number of full-time researchers, which is not the same as the number of colleagues with contracts in the department, because there are some who are part-time there. There's a lot of stuff like that that can fix these numbers. That's why I told you at the committee meeting to go over it right away, there's no lying there. A little knowledge of science and related statistical data is needed. On the other hand, I didn't provoke a little by accident. I am very pleased that you have said it in your own words that, of course, research which has no specific economic benefits is very important and does not generate any revenue. Yeah, that's what we keep saying. You should have said so only in your first comment, because obviously, people in your field of science, colleagues in your field of science, will probably think that you are not going to sit up and demand patents and protections on people who don't even care about that. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-219	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2019-06-12-220	Thank you very much. The congressman has asked me not to flee here without a debate. Mr. Congressman, he was not here in the previous term, where we had deeply late-night debates about different parts of education, and there was no escape, but rather a kind of professional debate. That's what's going to happen now, so I'd like to add a few thoughts to that. Let's start by saying I know what basic research is. Here were two opinions from DK and then the MSZP. Thank you for both, by the way. The thing is, I know what basic research is, and I know exactly what the value of basic research is and why it is needed. I worked as a fundamental researcher for part of my life, and then these two came together, and there was innovation and a lot of other things. No one's heard anything from me, and if anyone can provide any evidence that I would have said anywhere that basic research is not important, only innovation, only product development, then, please show it to me. Sometimes I talk fast, it's bound to be a mistake, but I didn't say that. I didn't think that, by the way, I have my own basic research thesis, control theory, not a thesis, but it would be silly to say that because that's not the case. What we are basically talking about is an environment that is now called an innovation ecosystem, which is at the moment where it is in Hungary. We are the 21st, and in 17 we were 22nd in the European innovation scoreboard evaluation system. There are many reasons for this. There's a detail on this one. I would like to highlight a few important things that belong to this evaluation system, just in case someone thinks that this is just the development of truck brakes. This is a very serious evaluation system. It starts with human resources, it's a feature, it's broken down into different parts. We're not doing well here. Attractive research systems, this is another evaluation aspect. We're not doing well here, too. Where we stand in Hungary, this is an innovation-friendly environment. For something someone, I think, resented why the Hungarian government is not doing everything possible to bring innovation to a different level in Hungary, and I trust that we do not want to use it as a curse, where we are doing just fine, because we create such an environment in Hungary. We're not good at funding. It is one of the elements of the Hungarian research system in which we really are not doing well. By the way, if you look at how much the Hungarian community spends on financing innovation, research and development, let's say, in proportion to GDP, this is exactly the same as our 21st, 22nd place. So there's no such thing as a miracle. The problem is that this was the case in 2002-2003. Since 2003, the size of the state's investment in R &amp; D has not changed, we spent 120 billion forints in 2003 and 120 billion forints in 133 now, but this is actually a small difference we are spending this year as well. This was the beginning of the transformation of the entire system last autumn, and the Hungarian community did not finance research activities well, as it is an amount that is actually insufficient to support neither basic research nor innovation. That's what the government recognized. This is one of the basic thesis of the document that was born last autumn that this needs to be substantially changed. We are not wrong on the other side, of course, because if we look at the resources of Hungarian companies, i.e. the economy, for R &amp; D since 2002, it has grown dynamically. In 2017, this is our last evaluable figure, we spent 1.33 percent of GDP on research and innovation. Three-quarters of this is corporate spending and one-quarter of it can be attributed to the community in any way. This is an EU resource or domestic resources. That is why the government decided, and this is what we see in the 2020 budget, that we have raised this HUF 130 billion by HUF 32 billion. This represents a 25% increase, since 2003 no government has done that. We had to accept that there was such a condition in this thing. The fact that we want to use this source... here I would refer back to the development of the braking system, although I have now developed, because it has also been said that the autonomous vehicle is a higher level than the braking system. So the Hungarian government also spends on it. At this moment, it looks like there are two parts of the Research and Innovation Fund in 2020, there is a basic part of research and there is a basic part of innovation. The total amount of the Research and Innovation Fund, this is what the Hungarian budget represents, HUF 165 billion. Of this, only 62 billion forints will be spent on innovation competitions. We will place 100 billion forints in the basic part of the research, it will be there, and this can basically be used for research in various constructions. It's significantly higher than it's ever been before. If we look at the documents that we also talk about in agreement with the Academy last autumn, we will need to raise the Hungarian budget in the same way next year. Of course, how the economy reacts to this, here we assume that forints will result in three forints of economic spending for state aid. There were different numbers. The good numbers, I think, are for Congressman Pósan. The number of researchers isn't falling, it's growing. There are several reasons for this. Since 2014, there has been a strong restructuring in higher education institutions. This also affects PhD training. In 2014, we said to increase the duration of the PhD, divide it into two parts, and since then the number of PhD students has also increased and their funding has increased. So that's actually the reason for that. In the university, the number of researchers is increasing, and the number of researchers is increasing at the Academy of Sciences. So much for what research funding looks like and why. We would like to change that substantially. This is the first government that has said yes, we will do so. This is obviously a criticism of our own Fidesz governments and of the former governments. As for the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, I think, with regard to its name, that if linguists believe that this is not good, this is the kind of proposal that can be made in Parliament to amend this. Why Loránd Eötvös? We'd call him Eötvös Loránd... otherwise he doesn't really hook up with the university here, so we looked at the legal background. There is enough distance between Eötvös Loránd University and Eötvös Loránd Research Network, so they will not confuse it. Loránd Eötvös because Loránd Eötvös was a scientist named by Einstein as the greatest Hungarian physicist. This has probably been the case since then. But he's been writing 80 or a few articles all his life, of which, I think, ten or so were foreigners in some foreign language and appeared abroad. But it was also important for him to see what would come of it. So the theory he created became a practice, which is why we thought it was a good indication that this duality of the Hungarian research system, research, basic research, and the realisation of this is embodied in such a network of research institutes. How independent and autonomous this research facility network is? In 2009, I think Minister Hiller was the minister at the time when the law on the Academy of Sciences changed, before that, there was this system of governance, I think, called a two-headed eagle. The President of the Academy was responsible for the public body, the Secretary-General of the Academy for the research institute network. In 2009, there was a legislative amendment that centralised this whole case, everything under the president. There was also a reason why the structure of the Academy was double, as in Austria. The reason for this was that we didn't want the research institute network under the public body on purpose, it was never there anyway, it was always the Secretary-General's responsibility to operate the research institute network. In 2009, this form of operation ceased, the President underlined everything, centralised it, and from then on lost the kind of responsibility that would have said who was responsible for managing this research institute network. What does control mean? [[21.20]] We need to look at the strategy of the research institutes. We haven't been able to find a strategy like that. It is necessary to look at the evaluation system of the research institute network. He didn't really operate that. And it is true that the Academy prepares reports for Parliament and the government, but the representatives of science can truly judge what other representatives of science have done. Parliament is not qualified for this, the government is inadequate. That's the kind of system the Academy didn't run. So if we strictly interpret the matter by saying that the research network, the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, is directly under the Parliament, and, in this sense, a constitutional chapter with an independent budget, therefore, the kind of autonomy, the kind of freedom that the research institute network will have in relation to the previous state, is much higher. So I think that to fear this new structure, that there would be any other kind of intervention here, then Parliament would do it, and I do not think that Parliament would, at least, be prepared to do so. So, the president, the public body, the research institute network, has been removed and put under the direct authority of Parliament. If this is, by the way, a serious violation of autonomy, then we have indeed made a mistake. I don't think that's the case, by the way. In this sense, there are many types of German research institutes, and we refer to Max Planck in the same way. Their autonomy is much higher than that. What the governing body looks like is a very important thing, and since we want to discuss the profession here, let's talk about it. This is a very important thing, because by delegationing six persons with this way of delegation to the Academy, six people are delegated or sent to this committee by the government, and, by the way, the Prime Minister appoints them, that means that he appoints those people. So I think that the MAB works exactly the same way, so there is no very big difference, so we have taken over the regulation of the MAB, so we have not invented a new one. It is also a delegation, and the Prime Minister appoints the person who is otherwise delegated to it. What is very important here is 13 people, so 13 people we can look at. We see that one is a physicist, the other is a philanthropist, the third is a minister, the fourth I don't know what he's doing, and he's responsible for what he's doing. So he will personally be responsible for making that research facility network work. I trust that, if we say, the other part of the rule that appeared here, and that wasn't the case before, two thirds of the 13 people must be out of science. So that means that two thirds of these six plus six plus one are scientists, and the artisan of science is quite well defined by the Fundamental Law, I think, what it means. This is precisely the principle that makes this institutional network more independent in this sense, and otherwise its governance is linked to people. The Max Planck Institute network works well because that's what they call it in that Senate, and of course, names can be argued over by people who care about what they do there. That's what it's supposed to be, so that's what it's all about. In the Senate of the Max Planck Research Network, there are also two German ministers. Now I don't know if we planned to delegate ministers, and we'll see that clearly, but the two-thirds rule is definitely valid. It has a separate budget, and honourable Members and gentlemen are able to look at the budget law that has been tabled. In this you see different categories under the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, they can add up the numbers of this. This shows that this amount is higher than last year's amount. So I think that to be very concerned about the existence of anyone here, let this be a young researcher, let this be an active researcher, because the three billion of the Lendület research groups are included in this, be it the researcher of some kind of cooperation research centre, university, with the cooperation of the Academy, all of which are included in these amounts. So the kind of fear that the budget for this is not guaranteed is there. There's a structure, there's a system, this system is similar to any other system, let's say it's more like Max Planck. Helmholtz is a network of German state research institutes, so the state tells us that the secretary, Mrs. Frau Karliczek, is the one who runs this network, and still belongs to it today. It's a different kind of network. Fraunhofer is once again a public research facility network. But it's not like that, it means a different institution. By the way, in the law, there is a semi-phrase at the beginning that the state can also create an employed research institute network. We're going to create it. This will be called the Zoltán Bay Research Institute Network. There has been one of these, Ernő Pungor was a very serious chemical engineer or chemist, I think some of us may have known who didn't, maybe you should check it out. He invented the Hungarian version of the German Fraunhofer Institute. For more than one reason, it was destroyed, but we would reset it, because it is the same as Fraunhofer, so we will create the same structure as in Germany. We have a core research institution network, the Eötvös Loránd Research Network, and there will be another public research institute network that deals with applied research and this kind of service, and this is the Bay Zoltán institutional network. It's the same in Germany. Speaking of Germany, it has been said here several times who wrote and who wrote many letters to whom. I am a industrious minister, and I am not always in Parliament because I am busy with something else, but I am trying to do my own thing. One of these things is that when questions arise at international level, for example, one has to talk to these colleagues. I went diligently to America, went to Germany, sat down with the president of Leibniz, sat down with the president of Helmholtz, talked to the president of the Max Planck Institute, who, by the way, sent letters, spoke to the president of the Fraunhofer Institute, and explained what was happening here. And they said, "Yeah, if that's what's going on, then it seems like it's not a heretic thing. In addition, just in order to resolve the uncertainty of the Hungarians in Europe, we also asked the President of Leibniz and the President of Helmholtz to support this transformation process, so take part in the governing body of this process. They both agreed to this thing. The same goes for Fraunhofer's president, by the way. So it is likely that the kind of uncertainty that appeared at international level can be resolved. Of course, this can be solved by other excellent people of Hungarian origin. You mentioned a physical, I think you meant a mathematician when you confronted me. György Grüner, a physicist, György Grüner, was the world's most dedicated physicist for 10 years. Now he has a different opinion on what Mr Lovás might be a little contrary to. [[Szabolcs Szabó intervenes.]] But speaking of opinions... Speaking of how much we've talked to the Academy, we've been negotiating with the Academy ever since last fall. There were different elements. One of the elements was on 8 March when President Lovász and I signed a Memorandum of Understanding on where the research institute network would be operated and where the Academy would like to operate. So we didn't agree on that. This began with the fact that, if so, you will acknowledge this and then we have described the points that characterize the operation of this research facility network. I suggest you ladies and gentlemen take a look at this, and I'd be happy to send it to you. It's a signed document. He showed up in the press, by the way. We followed every point of that. And not only did they respect them, but Professor was at the general assembly, four proposals for decisions were made at the general assembly. The second of these proposals for a decision was that which, by the way, contained a series of things. This was the result of a task force. We also followed it in all its elements, despite the fact that some cases were included in the Academy's proposals for decisions without complying with the opinion of the working group. But we followed that, too. So if we look at this, it's all in there. So, speaking of uncertainty, we want to resolve this uncertainty. There was a third-third delegation ratio here. This was the point, contrary to this declaration of intent, that half of the state, half the government and half of the Academy are delegates, and this was also published in one of the proposals for a resolution to delegate one third of the Academy, one third of the research institute network is delegated and one third of the government is delegated. There was no agreement on this, so this was included in the bill. There was also a solution between the two, if you have already made such proposals, Mr President, so there was a proposal for everyone to ask at least two persons from the delegation of the research institute against their own quota of six. I think that this was a legitimate proposal, which was done by the representatives of the Legend Research Groups. I think that we will consider this because it was a good proposal. We also agreed on this, let us add, that it did not appear in the press, and the Member was not present in these negotiations. So we really agreed on this, and it's also a legitimate thing. So to say that in any way someone's uncertainty, the question of governance, the question of the budget would not appear in any way, in part in this bill, and in part in the fiscal law. You can't read what you've listed here, by the way. I'd like to refer to the fact that there once appeared on the Index an internal meeting with the president of the Academy, a recording that said we were doing something for the sake of the Academy. And Lajos Vékás said, "Laci, you're arguing for the Academy." Yeah, I can't help it because I'm a member of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. That's where people are called. That's how it works. We don't want to come, and they'll pick you up. They'll call you. [[21.30]] It's a great honor. The Hungarian Academy of Sciences is a serious element of Hungarian history; the Hungarian Academy of Sciences is a public body as a consultative scientific body. You have to separate, because you've always divorced the research facility network before, that was a case. Congressman Hiller said that there are differences here compared to Leibniz and Max Planck, and that not everything is like that in the Germans. In 1991, after the German reunion, the West German system abolished the East German academy. It was a bit of an academy, like ours, he had several research institutes, I think he had 10,000 researchers. In about a year, the former institutions of the East German academy were converted and integrated into Leibniz, Helmholtz, Max Planck and other places. That was a pretty brutal process that took about a year. If anyone was involved in this, I had the pleasure of seeing certain parts of myself, it was an unattractive process. If it were to be compared, I could compare it to John Kóka's statement, and certainly not to what is happening now. When the same question was asked, they said that there was another system there, it was a communist academy, and that was why it had to be stopped. There was no communism in Germany in 1991, so it didn't make much sense, but it stopped, and it stopped because it didn't fit in with the West German, and it was actually a successful research institute network. So when we talk about facts, I think it is appropriate to talk about such matters. Here are some questions about why we are doing this. ♪ I'm always smiling over it ♪ [[Dr. Tamás Mellar:]] Yeah, it's exactly the hand gesture that we're doing for money. What's with the premonition? I had to understand that EU funds will be much higher in the 2021-27 planning cycle than they are now. Let us divide this up, and the cohesion funds will not be higher. There may be a priority for research, but there won't be any higher. Where it will inevitably be higher, it is the Horizon Europe source, which looks about between EUR 90 billion and EUR 100 billion at the moment. We're still negotiating about this, and we'll see how much, but it's a high amount because it's never been like this. The European Union has seen its incompetence, so they want to spend so much money on it. If we simplify this move, whatever it means on the part of Professor, this would mean that the Hungarian research institute network, Hungarian companies, Hungarian universities, must be much more successful. If we look at how much funds we have brought to Hungary in Horizon 2020, I think those here know this, well, 0.6 percent of the total amount of funding is about EUR 280 million, which is a shame at least. It's a competitive system, Professor. So it's not like there's something for us, you have to apply there, you have to go there, you have to write the application, you need a partner in other countries, you need an idea, you need confidence, you need confidence, you have to trust the German partner, let's say, in the ELTE research group. We are talking about a situation in the past, honourable Member, and you know that, because we do not have this trust, because we do not have cooperation. When I asked the president of Leibniz how many research collaborations he had with the Academy of Sciences, well, I don't want to tell you the answer right now, because I don't want to de-honest anyone's activities. So if we get to the point where we can substantially increase this amount, it's very good. How does that come to what professor says, that Laurin the Butcher and others will get rich from this? This is probably a misunderstanding that we have shown something so interesting in the Higher Education Act and here, that from now on research sites can start creating spin-off businesses for an idea in which they do not necessarily have to be majority owners. I report that today, universities do not set up such a spin-off business in Hungary, there is no such thing. There are only a few things at a very low level because we have not been able to meet the condition that a majority state, while we are talking about a state university or a public research institute, should therefore be established. I'd be delighted if that smart capital, the venture capital, actually showed up because we have an idea because we can work this out. And if the condition for this is that we can bring much more resources and show them from the European Union, then we would be very happy. Yesterday we had an announcement on how the government supports the ability of Hungarian companies and research institutes to operate more successfully with regard to Horizon Europe's resources. This has positive incentives, there are requirements, so this is a very good thing. Speaking of innovation and research, Mr President, you mentioned this autonomous vehicle story, which is a good example. I think that's a very good example. [[Dr. László Keresztes to Lóránt:]] I'm sure you know that, too, as a philosopher. [[Szabolcs Szabó: That's me!]] Even better, then, especially since the basic issue of artificial intelligence is not a technical issue, it is more a question of human science, which can be addressed very well there. So it's not a heretic thing. But speaking of which, we have another facility like this, this laser center in Szeged. It's a basically basic research center. Interestingly, someone at the time decided to bring this centre to Hungary, and everyone from the operation of this centre, starting from the Academy of Sciences, kept away from the fire that we would fall for it. We've got one of these, we don't have another. The government was the first to say that it couldn't, because it is an institution that is definitely important to us. Then you finally decided. [[Gergely Arató: This story was quite different, Minister.]] I don't know how that story happened. I wasn't there as Secretary of State. I think you guys saw it better. One thing is certain that this works now, because the government believes that this infrastructure must be operated in addition to our obligation. And ask for an opportunity for Hungary to have only one, because there is no other one who can operate a basic research infrastructure, this cannot be done. Well, that's also the responsibility of funding research. These numbers aren't in these numbers, by the way. But speaking of funding and the wealth of the Academy, I would like to put an end to the fact that we are talking here about einstandation and the restriction of the right to property. In 2006, this fortune was transferred to the Academy, and the public body received this property as far as I can remember. This fortune was then given to the Academy because it had a task of research, so it was given to it for the research infrastructure. By the way, no one wants to use this asset for anything else. So if the research institute network doesn't operate within the Academy, but operates outside, then the related building, device infrastructure is obviously used for this and doesn't want anyone to own it. And if we even look at the fact that after 2010 the Hungarian Academy of Sciences has been supported by Hungarian governments since then, we have had three governments, which have increased this wealth further, and if we add this together, we are talking about a sum between HUF 50 and HUF 80 billion. We talk about KOKI's affairs, we talk about the Wigner Center's computer room, we talk about the Martonvásár Agricultural Research Institutes, and we talk about a series of things that have been added to this wealth ever since. So to accuse this government, of course, legally, it is not so, that it wants to take the assets of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, it is simply pointless, because we put it there, we developed it. It's just that we use the elements needed for the research function for what they are, because that's what the Academy is supposed to do, and the Academy hasn't doubted that. The fact that someone else has other ideas in some form, that they have to pay rent or buy it, and that could be a matter of discretion, is a business thing. One thing is certain that the Hungarian government will not take anyone's property. It is a public body, it has wealth, and the Hungarian government does not want to take this property. The Prime Minister has said this several times. In that 2016 speech, I think that's not exactly what you were referring to, but a series of other things that have been going on ever since. So the thing is, this thing seems to be what we're trying to create a functioning research facility network. Professor mentioned the Chancellors' system here. I have to reflect on this because I love it so much when a professor at the University of Pécs says that we have introduced the Chancellors' system to open the way for private businesses. Dear Professor, I believe you were there then. He has just received eight years before the Chancellor, the Economic Director of the University of Pécs, and when the Chancellor took over the operation of the University of Pécs, your university was bankrupt, specifically a deficit of eight billion forints. Now the university isn't bankrupt, it's working. So these statements must always be made in a context, and serious people do not say such things without adding facts. The former Director General is in prison at the University of Pécs. But let's get back to the point of this proposal. I think that the fears that have been said here, whether in terms of our international judgment, the autonomy of research or the uncertainty of those involved in research, I think they are not real fears. You just have to read what's written here. Minister Hiller has a good saying, and I often quote that what flies like a goose is probably a goose. Well, that's what we're talking about. We're trying to create a better research facility network, and that's all there is to it. We have no other intention. Finally, to Mr Mesterházy's last question of how I feel about this matter: that is exactly what I think. [[21.40]] So here's the thing: I could be making fun of the origo interview right now, but I wouldn't, because I don't think it would be worthy of the House or the people in it. But basically, Attila Mesterházy referred to the Origos article on Mr Pálinkás, I think, perhaps. So the thing is, we're trying to create a better system here, and I'm totally serious about it being a better system. The test of pudding will always be eating, universities were bankrupt in 2010, now they are not bankrupt, now we have transformed them so that they will otherwise be able to try a new mode of operation. The first element of this was with Corvinus University, and all the fears were closed. The same will happen to other universities, and probably the same will happen to research institutes. So that is why I think that I would like to ask this House to support this bill. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2019-06-12-221	Thank you very much, Minister. Two-minute speeches, Mr Tamás Mellár stopped. Congressman Szabolcs Szabó!
u2019-06-12-222	Thank you very much. I've prescribed three little things for myself. On the one hand, if, Minister, you could also look around ELTE TTK, BTK to verify the effective activities of the Chancellors, there were firings there, by the way, so the transformation was very good. On the other hand, he referred to the fact that the higher education data in the MTA report were not accurate. I don't know if you've checked, Minister, well, they're good scientists, just like you and I always write down the source of those data. Do you remember him, Minister? Hungarian Rector Conference. Who was that president then? Mr. Bodis, the current Secretary of State. At the wheel seat, you have to tell me over the table that Jozsi, you gave me the wrong data! And you don't have to go after Mr. Horseman for that. There's the source, given. If anyone made a mistake, it must have been Mr. Bodis, which must be discussed within the government. And the third one, I would like to draw attention here again, and I was counting on you to say that, which is what you're going to say, that we're misunderstanding everything here, opposition side. I'm not surprised, obviously that's what I expected, okay, all right. But, then again, the legitimate representative of the Hungarian scientific community, who represents it, is the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, its elected president, chairmanship and general meeting. So let us accept that what they say is the most acceptable position in Hungarian scientific public life. And if someone thinks that this is wrong, then you are an academic too, there you are, convince them that they are wrong and take a decision, and then I will be enthusiastically supporting it, because that is what the Hungarian scientific community is asking for. Until that happens, you don't want to transform this by force from the outside. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett applauds.]]
u2019-06-12-223	Thank you very much. István Hiller, Vice President. Here you go, Mr. Vice President. Two minutes.
u2019-06-12-224	Dear Minister, The difference of opinion was maintained in two points. One of them is relatively easy to clarify, because we need to discuss briefly, otherwise we are going so far, I think, in the problem, which would now be bad for the timeframe. The German benchmark cannot be correct because there were no national institutions in Germany that could have had a research network. [[Dr. László Palkovics: GDR Academy.]] There is no German national library, but there are two libraries, the Frankfurt and Leipzigs, which are otherwise acknowledged to be the two most comprehensive. But it's like Deutsche Nationalbiblioths, like our National Széchényi Library, no such thing. So, obviously, they couldn't have a network. When a network was established, the state created the network because the scientific academy in Germany couldn't play a role that wasn't, because we had eight, like István Széchenyi founded it. Second, the MAB example. I can see it's a point of reference. I have one problem with it: the transformation that you were able to do with the MAB resulted in the European association of accreditation bodies suspending the membership of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee in this organisation. [[Dr. László Palkovics: That's not true! Dr. Tamás Mellar: Yes, yes, yes!]] And you don't actually accept this thing for two years, and then you can ask it to work again. Basically, we want to increase the quality of Hungarian research, and there is no problem between us. I have my doubts that it's as powerful a government influence as this whole law says it's going. I prefer to believe that this can be solved through transformations within the academic research network. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-225	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Congressman Gergely Harvesto!
u2019-06-12-226	Thank you very much. On the one hand, there is an unsolved personal thread, because I may have been misunderstood here, and I have noticed it from Mr President's reaction and Congressman Mesterházy's. I did not question Mr. Minister's previous scientific performance or his apparently well-acquired membership of the public body; I merely indicated that he is currently not in a scientific role either in the Scientific Council or in Parliament, but in a ministerial role and a ministerial function. More importantly, of course, that is why I would have asked for the floor, for the sake of fairness and clarity, but if I have the floor, I would like to make one very important point clear. I think that the workings of scientific life, of these scientific issues, can, of course, have an opinion on everyone who is deeper into this scientific world than Minister or some of our excellent university professors, who obviously know this world better. But one thing is not possible: it is not possible that Minister imagines, thinks about it, and then beats it through the whole system by force. We all have manias, ideas, concepts, visions, dreams, and fever dreams. But in a normal, democratic country, it works, my honourable Members, that we are having not only a political debate about these, when we are conflicting political ideas, but also a professional debate. And the transformation of the academic institution network against the academic public body, which you push through by force, is doomed to failure, apart from all other aspects, because it is not possible to transform a system in such a way that those who are involved in it do not accept it, understand or support it. I must add, and I will be sure that Mr Pósán will make a critical remark that I myself have learned this partly because of my own fault. Thank you.
u2019-06-12-227	Thank you very much. Congressman László Pósán!
u2019-06-12-228	Thank you. I would only respond briefly to what Congressman Hiller said and the German analogy. Congressman, that's what I said, but I'll have to do it again. So in Hungary, which is the Hungarian Academy, which was founded by Széchenyi, and what then existed until the end of World War II, is a scientific company, and the research network we are talking about was created by the state, just as it was created by the state in the GDR. Just for the record, it's a good thing to memorize. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-229	Thank you very much. I see that Congressman Tamás Mellár has changed his mind because he asked for two minutes to speak. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-230	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. I'm trying to say two things very, very briefly. One is that the introduction of these foreign examples reminds me a little that, of course, abroad, you can always find an example that strengthens the current solution, an ideal when we make a bicycle, I say to Minister, which does not have a front brake or a rear brake. Now, we can explain, because we can tell you that there are bikes that make bicycles in France that don't have front brakes. And they make, say, a bike in Sweden that doesn't have a rear brake. But nobody makes anything but Hungarians with neither front nor rear brakes. This is one of the things, and we have seen this several times, by the way, in terms of brakes and counterweights, this is very visible. And the other thing is that if you really think that this concept is so good and really forward-looking, then please explain to me why the general assembly of the Academy rejected it by 90 percent. So this means that 90 percent of academics are fried fools, and they have absolutely no touch, and they don't recognize what is objective reality? This reminds me a little of socialism when the leaders told me what it was going to be, and the people didn't want to accept it, and then it was the people's fault because they didn't recognize its objective interests. This is the case now that academics are so stupid that they don't realize that it's actually in their interest. Thank you very much. [[21.50]]
u2019-06-12-231	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Bernadett Wind!
u2019-06-12-232	My question to Minister is, if you're so sure of what you're doing, and we all don't know what we're talking about, then why did you hide this bill overnight, why couldn't you put it during the day, when there were a lot of voters... [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Towards KDNP lines:]] Don't pull your shoulder, please. Why are you all so upset now? It's 10:00 in the evening. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Yeah, that's not at night. Don't argue with me, be nice. I am talking to the Minister, on the one hand, not yet, and on the other hand, I would like to know why, if you are so proud of what you are doing, it was not possible to negotiate this proposal at such a time as to reach the broad masses of voters through the Hungarian media. Answer me! It's not an administrative issue. I've been in this Parliament since 2012, and I can see that the debates they're ashamed of are being fucked for the night. That's the big deal. And it's not some fantasy, it's a fact that I see clearly. So, Minister, as you are responsible for this law, and as a member of the government, please answer this question, so that if everything is all right, then why do we discuss this at night?
u2019-06-12-233	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I give the floor to Minister because I believe that some questions have been raised and that he will have the opportunity to answer them in the closing words. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-234	Thank you very much. I don't want to repeat anything. The question of why the debate is now because that is what Parliament has decided. I'd be happy to argue with anyone anywhere from 6:00 to 11:00 in the morning, so I think there's a reason why the press can't broadcast it, there's no. I'd be happy to repeat this anywhere, to anyone, at any time. What's the professor's question is academics. You have to see what the questioning was there. We asked two questions, which were interesting in this category where it would work. Indeed, 90% of the Academy said that it would work within the Academy. So that's what the public body decided. However, the other issue is that if it requires a different system of management, 90% of the Academy's general meeting voted in favour, so I think that this is a good thing. There are different opinions. The nice thing is that the Academy says that to the others is a complex body. There was also a question that, for example, the Academy, if the government is going to set up this research institute network in spite of the Academy, should not concern itself with the affairs of science. So the Hungarian Academy of Sciences should not deal with the affairs of Hungarian science in the event that the government does something that is. Wisely, 53 percent of the Academy did not vote for this, so the Academy is a complex organization. Congressman Hiller: On 13 September 2018, the ENQA certification was re-acquired by the MAB, so it is on the website. There was a little incomprehension. With the same structure, with the same structure, the accreditors I was involved in at the time, in spring the last element was found to be in absolute order in the structure of the MAB, so the MAB ENQA rating is fine, otherwise we knew it would be fine before. So I think that if you want to look for an analogy to the current situation, if you communicate with the world around us or with the rest of the world, and not just from the same direction, and in the case of the MAB, this came from very one direction, then, let's say, there are other people who listen to this. I think this may have been heard here, given the ENQA rating with such a high score. If there are still a few things to respond to, this question in Germany is not going to leave me alone. The congressman says it was a different structure. Yeah. Mr. Minister, historian, you know exactly what the reason for such a transformation of the German research institute network after World War II was, according to what presumptions they did not want what worked before World War II, and it led to this. But if it was this good, then why did the research institute network of the GDR and the scientific academy of the GDR have to be liquidated in 91? It's completely liquidated. The Swedish scientific academy doesn't have a research institute network, it's the job of the American Academy of Sciences, it's written down that if the government asks, it's going to be the nation's advisory organization. Széchenyi had ideas like this. In the latter time, just because I was preparing for this debate here, Széchenyi said such things and wrote such things, and if we read a little bit of Széchenyi's later works, what he wrote in them I would suggest to everyone, he did not want the Hungarian Academy of Sciences to operate a research institute network, there was nothing like that. You can find it on the Internet, so it's not too complicated. Miklós Palkovits is not a relative of mine, he was one of Hungary's best researchers, brain researcher, Széchenyi's late works, and he will tell you interesting things about what Széchenyi wrote in his late works. So I suggest you read this. Széchenyi didn't mean such an academy, Széchenyi thought of an academy that was the nation's advisory organization. We began to create an organization that had no purpose for Széchenyi in any way, but I don't think the Academy did either. Now this situation is an opportunity to restore this advisory role of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and it can really work in the form that was the original idea of this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-235	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. There will be a general debate on the provisions concerning the management of certain assets and on the draft law amending certain laws relating to national financial services until closure. The government referral is T/6352. On the House's IT network, it is available to everyone. I give the floor to Mr János Fónagy, State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs in relation to national wealth, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2019-06-12-236	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before you concerns a number of regulatory issues in the field of competence under the responsibility of the Minister without a wallet in charge of managing national assets. Its asset management provision serves the long-term settlement of the fate of the Planetarium in Népliget, the purpose of which is to designate the Scientific Knowledge Society as the trustee of the Planetarium, commonly known as the KIC. The property could then again be taken into the care of the organization that built it between 1975 and 1977. The Planetarium is currently being renovated, and it is necessary for the KIC with a sufficient number of professional knowledge to coordinate the work to be carried out. The Planetarium will soon open its doors again to the public interested in astronomy. The bill also includes amendments to the legislation on the integration of savings cooperatives. The Act establishing the integration of cooperative credit institutions in 2013 created a stable institutional and regulatory environment in which the development of the savings cooperative sector and the preservation of its traditions were ensured. A cooperative model, which is also known and applied at European level, is also in line with the European Union's legislation on financial institutions. Experience since the introduction of the regulation has demonstrated the objectives and direction of the 2013 legislation, and the regulatory and business control of the established central bodies can improve the efficiency and safe functioning of this important market segment. Institutions resulting from concentration in integration have responded well to market challenges, showing that closer cooperation, properly coordinated banking operations can raise the sector to the level of modern service providers. The main objective of the bill is to ensure the further development of the structure of integration by amending the Act on the integration of cooperative credit institutions, but without prejudice to the structural elements that have already been built and well functioning. In order to strengthen the profitable and prudent functioning of integration as a single money market operator, as closely related organisations, the proposed legislation will take further steps to promote the uniform business functioning of cooperative credit institutions. The purpose of the amendment is also to ensure the full implementation of the cooperative principle and the possibility for members of cooperative credit institutions to participate in the cooperative during the ongoing merger processes in integration. The bill therefore names a new type of operator, the holding cooperative, as a member of the integration organisation of cooperative credit institutions. The holding cooperative can ensure that so far the shareholders of the sector can continue to be part of a cooperative framework for integration and is able to be open to new entrants on an ongoing basis. [[22.00]] The main activity of the holding cooperative is the management of shareholdings in the cooperative credit institution, and other activities are limited, so its role can clearly be realised in the exercise of ownership rights. The bill considers the preservation and strengthening of cooperative traditions to be a fundamental value and therefore gives priority rights to the holding cooperative and its members, in the main governing body of integration. These persons have a key role to play in the delegation, election and recall of the majority of the members of the board of directors and the supervisory board of the integration organisation. The holding cooperative plays a key role in integration, as it provides an organisational framework for the owners of the natural persons of cooperative credit institutions to exercise their rights and therefore has a significant social interest in its permanent presence in integration. The bill therefore states that there is no possibility that the integration organizational membership of the holding cooperative will be terminated by withdrawal or exclusion. An important part of the renewal of the integration organization as a central body is that its members can be not only cooperative credit institutions, but also those entities operating under their control, i.e. those associated enterprises that perform supervised activities by the Hungarian National Bank, such as leasing or factoring activities. This provision strengthens the risk community whose participants provide interlinked services in the domestic money market. The proposal also aims to include all its members, including the holding cooperative, as well as the connected undertakings and the central data processor operating the single IT system, in the protection, regulatory and control activities of the integration organisation ensuring prudent operation. This will further strengthen the proper, orderly and secure functioning of integration. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill also renews the regulation of the central bank responsible for the business management of integration, and in the future this power can be achieved not only by credit institutions but also by other financial institutions. Accordingly, the organisation's name is also changed. Instead of a central bank, it acts as an integration business management organisation. The integration business management organisation is no longer obliged to perform commercial banking functions, so it can be a priority to designate a business strategy to support a single business operation and to carry out related regulatory tasks. This could lead to further rationalisation and simplification of the governance of integration. On the basis of the bill, the powers of business management, as I mentioned, also extend to related undertakings. The proposal significantly strengthens the rules of universality within integration. The joint and several responsibilities shall cover all members of the integration organisation and shall cease to be in order to enforce claims against each member, i.e. the claimant may enforce his claim against any member. The proposal also clarifies the rules for the termination of the universal service, and the law lays down uniform rules for all cases of termination of membership. The proposed legislation also slightly clarifies the provisions on the common fund for cooperative credit institutions. The Act on the Hungarian Development Bank, the minor corrections to the provisions of the Act on Credit Institutions and Financial Enterprises, are also part of the bill, which are necessary in view of the amendment of the Act on the Integration of the cooperative credit institution. The proposal repeals certain specific provisions of the Act governing the resolution procedure of credit institutions concerning the integration organisation and its members, which are justified by the rules of joint and several liability for all members of the integration organisation. Ladies and gentlemen, In conclusion, with the adoption of the bill, the Planetarium, which is part of the state's wealth, will fall into the hands of a competent farmer. The bill contributes to further increasing the competitiveness of the savings cooperative sector, helping to develop a single product structure and operational model in integration as a bank in the countryside. That is why I ask the honourable Parliament and my fellow Members that, on the basis of what has been said, T/6352. To discuss the legislative proposal, please support the regulatory intention set out in the bill. Thank you for your attention and for your endurance at this late hour. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2019-06-12-237	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Now it's time for the keynote speaker's speech. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Mihály Witzmann. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-238	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill on certain provisions concerning the management of assets and the amendment of certain laws relating to national financial services contains provisions on the appointment of the Scientific Knowledge Society as a trustee of state-owned real estate and on the amendment of further legislation. The proposal also deals with laws to strengthen the Hungarian Development Bank Company, the integration of cooperative credit institutions and the security of some of the financial intermediaries. The main objective of the bill is the 2013 CXXXV on the integration of cooperative credit institutions and amending certain economic legislation. The aim is to ensure that the structure of the cooperative credit institution's integration is further developed, and to ensure that the Scientific Knowledge Society is designated as the trustee of the State-owned Planetarium in Népliget in order to ensure that the scientific and technical aspects of the renovation and operation of the building are properly respected. The legislative proposal before us aims to ensure that the cooperative principle is applied in the course of the integration process as well as the possibility for members of cooperative credit institutions to participate in the cooperative. The proposal therefore identifies as a member of the integration organisation of cooperative credit institutions a new type of operator, the so-called holding cooperative. The bill defines the main activity of the holding cooperative in the management of its shareholding in the cooperative credit institution and limits it to the performance of other activities, so its role can be clearly achieved in the exercise of ownership rights. The aim of the proposal is to extend the prudent, prudent institutional protection, regulation and control activities of the integration organisation of cooperative credit institutions to all its members, including the holding cooperative, as well as the relationship between undertakings and the central data processor. This will further strengthen the proper and safe functioning of integration. The present proposal amends the rules on the central bank carrying out the business management tasks of integration, so that in the future this power will be recognised not only as a credit institution but also in other financial institutions. Accordingly, the organisation's name will be changed and it will act as an integration management organisation instead of a central bank. The proposal also states that the university covers all members of the integration organisation. The order of enforcement in order to enforce claims against each member will cease, so that the claimant can enforce his claim against any member. In addition, the rules on the termination of the universal service will be clarified, and the law will lay down uniform rules for all cases of termination of membership. [[22.10]] Dear Parliament, In the area of asset management, the government considers the continuation, increase and rational management of the wealth policy launched in 2010. It is also clear that the government that took office nine years ago first established the outflow of state assets and then strengthened the state's position by regaining strategic elements. I therefore believe that the bill before us has a number of positive effects on asset management, so I respectfully ask my fellow Members to support the adoption of the bill with their votes after the debate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2019-06-12-239	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr László Varju. Here you go, Congressman.
u2019-06-12-240	[[Attached to your microphone:]] Place, bet, finish, good evening. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In this law, and listening to what Mr. Secretary of State said in his pre-introduction, in his exposé, I would like to recall a few things and a few items, because it seems to me that a good part of what he said is due to a remorse and that a confession to this law that you did in 2013 in the cooperative environment was a tragedy for more than a hundred thousand people, for 122 savings cooperatives, and you are trying and you are pretending to do something about it now, and the fact is that the circumstances are not improving but are deteriorating. Beauty patch doesn't do you any good. This is not the case here, so I say in advance in the summary that it has anything to do with the cooperative, the principle of a member, one vote. This bill has nothing to do with the fact that in any way, in the form of a new cooperative proposed by you, these people, the members, have a say in business policy. Those well-sounding words that there is some progress here, that, by the way, economies of scale, this is without doubt from the point of view of a bank, but to decide in the village whether or not that vending machine will be decommissioned, my dear Secretary of State, you know exactly how much has been discharged in recent months, how much has been eliminated, and to do so, women with trembling hands who would otherwise like to take their pensions in their village cannot do so, because otherwise you have made it impossible. Your institution may be better suited to the market challenges, even because it is in the hands of a relatively narrow circle, but I would still like to talk about it. Therefore, I understand the reference to profitability, I understand the unity of operation, but please do not use the cooperative principle here, it has nothing to do with reality, to put it mildly. I'm sure this financial group in the market segment where they otherwise joined with the money recapitalisation and standardization of the market, will certainly be fine with this thousand billion forints, but this alone, as I said, does not serve the trembling-handed women and those who started this at some point in any way. Let's see, however, what's in this bill, because I find it rather amusing that you're starting this story with the Planetarium, but it seems that this is becoming a custom tonight, that laws have been introduced here to make the whole story ridiculous with the one and a half pages that this begins. But this gives a good reason that the title and content, by the way, have nothing to do with each other, and so you now believe that you are likely to have some communication in the situation, because in itself the words in the explanatory statement to ensure the functioning of the cooperative principle during the merger process in order to achieve a size-efficient institutional system, I have already explained what is happening in this regard. In the light of the cooperative principle, the bill grants the holding cooperative and its members members of a natural person the rights which are of decisive importance. That's what's happening again, like I said, just the opposite, but I don't think it's unusual for you to operate. What they're saying, and what's happening, is in total contradiction with each other, and in this way it's not acceptable. Article 7 I will not mention it here, but I will mention that in this explanatory statement there is a succession of the universality referred to by you, which covers all the members of the integration cooperative, followed by a reference to the joint fund of cooperative credit institutions, and then we are back at the Planetarium. That's about the way to deal with it. Article 7 When you suggest or suggest in the proposal that the amendment of the integration organisation to the general meeting will rearrange the ownership and decision-making conditions of the organisation, and for all members... now this cannot be interpreted. Why do I say that? Maybe there's a reason for us to justify this a little bit, or to justify it a little bit more. In 2013, you not only committed an assassination of the cooperative system, but did much worse. Just a few minutes ago, they were talking about nationalization of the Academy, the research network. I could say that this was done in 2013 as a forerunner in the cooperative stock and movement. In essence, private property has been verified and nationalised, and, by the way, it has been transferred to other private owners by public means, by the power of the law, by threats. This was done, this was done, and it seems to even have the owners, who are close to Fidesz, who have, of course, been replaced in the meantime, because when, after the Spéder-Simicska dispute, this axis was removed from the circle of those who could be beneficiaries, essentially the inventor of this whole thing was driven out of the system, almost led away from this circle, and in this way essentially transferred ownership rights to a different circle. Those who raised their voice in the process, turned to the Constitutional Court, filed individual lawsuits, turned to the President of the Republic, and everywhere that was possible, were unanimously rejected by the NER system, and did so, and this is your... and that is why I said that this is about their conscience, they are trying to bring back something of this to those people, they are doing it because they are not actually doing it, they are just pretending that something is happening. There's no doubt that you've played a huge fortune with the power of the law. 1600 cooperative credit institutions branches, one million clients transferred to the circle you defined. The re-enactment of this ownership and its process are somewhat well-known, but I think it is okay to record in this form what you have committed and what you have done, because the 12 temporarily surviving cooperatives where some banks operating on cooperative basis, but essentially in the form of a public limited company, will be merged by 2020, acting as a universal commercial bank, and once again, have nothing to do with the cooperative movement. The Savings Group is now the fourth largest banking group in Hungary with a consolidated balance sheet total of almost HUF 2500 billion, with a market share of more than 6.5 percent, and a further expansion of this circle is taking place. You can see these messages are coming in. The last time we heard from the Minister, the sale of Budapest Bank was also made in the same round, and if we go on, among the Hungarian Commercial Bank, MKB, all of this will be combined here in the hands of those who are still the main owners of the company, who have become those who have become here in recent years as a result of the dense change of owners. [[22.20]] We have to say again and again that the savings cooperative branch belonged to it, it belongs to the everyday life of the Hungarian village, it was the same way as there is a church in a village, there is a small restaurant, I could say, a tavern, there was also a savings cooperative branch. One of these has been eliminated by you, and this is not an easy assassination in this sense, because if you take it out of it, it will cause an enormous amount of damage. Small owners, shareholders without a functioning local organization, cannot vote for their own cause, it is no longer about them, which you have produced here by the way. There's a long list of how you guys did this, how you played it into these white collars' hands. Dear Secretary of State, In this form, what you have put forward here is unacceptable, and we cannot and will not support it. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2019-06-12-241	Thank you very much. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I ask my fellow Members who would like to speak. [[For signal:]] From the Jobbik Group, Mrs Potocsáné Kőrösi Anita is next. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-242	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Secretary. At this late hour, I can join my fellow Member Varju, and I could take out another salad because today is about salads. It is very talkative that the Planetarium has been included, which is, of course, eligible to be placed in the hands of a trustee who is professionally and scientifically capable of carrying out the Planetarium's operation and renovation; I consider this a very good decision and absolutely eligible. But what has just been said, I can only join him, because there was not one case where problems with the restructuring of savings cooperatives and their integration were encountered in small settlements, and these problems are real problems that need to be dealt with. I think and we believe that this legislation is not suitable for this. There's a lot more to be done. You say that the year of families, that the family comes first. In small settlements, the family is the first, and when the ATM is discharged, these should be borne in mind. We trust that they will think about it, and they will really think it is important that the ATMs remain in every small settlement, so as not to hinder the farming of families. Yes, it may be said that in this draft legislation the cooperative principle applies, but let us admit that this is unlikely to happen. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-243	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak. [[For signal:]] Mr László Varju has applied for a repeated speech. Here you go.
u2019-06-12-244	Thank you very much. I believe that what we have started needs to be continued a little bit further, even because, as I said, the Minister's annual report and the preparatory material on how the portfolio cleaning started at the Hungarian Development Bank is progressing. In an interview, he also mentions that it is important to know that there is a hundred billion forints of funding demand on the market that commercial credit institutions cannot balance, and in this package he mentions that we are continuing in the case of the Savings Group, i.e. you are continuing the work started, and in the medium term the goal remains... here they are talking about improving efficiency. And here it is, I think it also contains the telltale sign that you can see: the previous decision you made is about simple market acquisition, and here is a group about the minimum financing option for this magnitude, and I could say that an expert study will also show you how to build a group, a financial institution system that can otherwise stand up to it on the market in substance... It is apparent that the policy, the Fidesz groups, liked this area and basically carried out the capture of the savings cooperatives in the framework of the aforementioned procedure. When the whole story was ripped off in 2013 by rip-rops, the result of what I said was basically taking over the sector was that more than 100,000 people who were members there. In the meantime, in a devious way, I could say that they were the fine creators of this story, in this sense they played it over and produced this situation. Meanwhile, many things have been done, in a legal sense, and many things have been broken, and this could not have been done without the legal system, each element of which, from the President of the Republic to the Constitutional Court, stood by you all the way, that otherwise a single word was not raised for the property of the 100,000 people from whom your private property was taken. It is true that in other cases, there were only three million people there when they did the same thing and threatened to destroy them. So the objective that Viktor Orbán, by the way, laid down that 50 percent of the ownership of the banking system must be achieved by Hungarian ownership, this sublime goal is achieved by illegally embarrassing people, taking their small property, nationalising it, capitalising it with the state's money, and, by the way, going on this path with this law in order to continue to be stronger, to set foot in this market area, and to not only stay here, because there is much more going on in this circle. I'm sorry that you're helping me with this, and you're either doing or in some sense doing the butcher's work with which you've destroyed so many people. That's why I think this law is unsupportable. Thank you very much.
u2019-06-12-245	Thank you very much. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the Secretary of State to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2019-06-12-246	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Listening to the debate, I think it is right that we put the planetarium part in it, because that is the part that Jobbik can support. That's Varju, my fellow Member, how can I say this? Mr President, in 2013 I was the author of the Savings Cooperative Act, the law on integration at the time, so to speak, our dialogue on this subject is ongoing. [[22.30]] At the time, I thought and still believe that the long-term preservation of the transparency and operational security of the savings cooperatives and, in particular, the stability of the Hungarian financial market is a goal and a task that will benefit the entire Hungarian society. Congressman, it doesn't cover the reality that anyone's assets have been taken away from us, the cooperative property is part of this integration organization. Nor is it true or incorrect, I say this only in order for you to say that a member, the principle of one vote, does not apply. It is valid, as the proposal just tabled says that each member in the assembly of the integration organisation has one vote, so this, the principle of one member, one vote, is fulfilled. The fact that you and you do not converging, do not like, that parliamentary democracy can, of course we do not agree, but please, when you pass a shaming judgment on our professional activities, recall those savings cooperative failures that were created before this period, and in which your period of political governance was indeed heavily involved. So I think it's better for both of us to admit to the political battles that are currently taking place and not to give up the money of small people, small people with trembling hands. At the same time, I would like to call on the Hungarian Parliament to support this bill in order to ensure the consistent implementation of the principles laid down in 2013 and the further success of the integration of the savings cooperative. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President.
u2019-06-12-247	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment proposals can be submitted by 4 p.m. on Friday. We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. I would like to inform you that there will be no post-meeting speeches. I thank you for your day's work. Parliament will resume its meeting at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you for keeping the record, thank you to our colleagues for your help, for your day-to-day work. Meeting day's closed.
