u2020-04-06-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 11th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Dear Parliament, I am fulfilling my sad duty to announce that two of our former fellow Members have passed away in recent years. Dr. Szabolcs Fazakas started his political career in 1973 at the Ministry of Foreign Trade, and later served diplomatic service in Vienna and Berlin. Under the Horn Government, he was first State Secretary and then Ambassador to Bonn; between 1996 and 1998 he was Head of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Tourism and Chairman of the National Atomic Energy Commission. At the 2002 parliamentary elections, he obtained his mandate from the national list of MSZP, and until 2006 he was a member of the Hungarian Parliament, President of the Interparlamental Union in Hungary. He worked in the Committee on Foreign Affairs during his term of office. Between 2004 and 2009 he was a Member of the European Parliament of the MSZP, where until 2006 he was the Chairman of the Budgetary Control Committee and until 2009 he was a member of Parliament's Presidency and from 2010 to 2017 he was a member of the European Court of Auditors. He is the founder and active and supportive member of several FEs, and has served as President of the European Union Department of the Hungarian Economics Society until his death. In addition to his political and public career, he worked as an economic expert, a member or president of several banks and companies. In 1998 the middle cross of the Hungarian Medal of Merit was awarded with the star's medal, and his work was also recognized abroad with the Austrian Cross of Merit and the German Great Cross awards. In the year 2020, the Grand Cross of Luxembourg was also awarded a medal for its professional work, which, unfortunately, it could not take over in its lifetime. He died in the 72nd year of his life. Dr. Balázs Csákabonyi was a member of the Parliament for four cycles from 1994 to 2010. At the parliamentary elections in 1994, he obtained his mandate as a candidate of the MSZP in the 1st constituency of Somogy County and then from the national list of the party. Under his mandate, he was Vice-President of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and member of the Committee on immunity. In addition to his political career, he was president of the Somogy County Bar Association from 1988 to 1997 as a public and criminal lawyer, and from 1991 he was a member of the Board of Governors of the National Bar. He also practiced his profession as a retired lawyer, as vice-president of the National Association of Hungarian Pensioners, he took several initiatives in the National Assembly concerning pensioners. He passed away 83 years of his life. I would ask you to pay tribute to the memory of our fellow Members with a silent standing. [[The people in this room pay tribute to the memory of the deceased.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, applied to speak on behalf of the Government today. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-04-06-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government this weekend and the Prime Minister today have made countless important announcements regarding the management of the epidemic. It is our intention to keep the National Assembly regularly informed of the epidemiological measures. In dealing with the epidemic, the government still considers it essential to create the widest possible cooperation in Hungarian society and, although we have had to be disappointed in this in recent weeks, as much as possible in political life, among political parties. Therefore, I am doing an unprejudiced, yet hopeless, attempt to renew it. It is clear that the disease control will take weeks, even months. We also see that the number of infected people is increasing, but also within the Central European region, and Hungary is particularly well-equipped compared to other countries in Europe. The epidemiological restrictions that we have taken in recent weeks have fulfilled their expectations and, as a result, the spread of the epidemic has slowed down, and hospitals do not yet face a number of patients that cannot be treated. Maintaining this will continue to be very important. We also see that this year's budget, the Hungarian economy as a whole, has a very serious impact on the epidemic. For this reason, we can now say that the damage the country has to suffer can be measured at thousands of billion forints. When such damage is caused to a country, I add, such damage is also to the continent as a whole and to the world economy, then the principle that has been known since Roman law is obvious: common burden and shared burden. Accordingly, the government has established a protection fund against an epidemic, and the largest part of it is provided by resources taken from the central budget from each wallet; HUF 378 billion is the central reserve for the control of the epidemic. This is a top-up appropriation. So once again, I would like to emphasise that there cannot be a situation in which health protection costs cannot be paid by the government without a ceiling, regardless of any costs. I would also like to add that the resources that the government is drawing from the wallets are partly here and partly in the economic security fund, overall more than 1300 billion forints. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What percentage?]] The basis for protection against the epidemic is based on solidarity; we ask that everyone contribute to this. Therefore, from today, with no retroactive effect, we are transferring 50 percent of the support of the parties here; from local governments, we are directing the car tax into the central budget of HUF 34 billion - we also ask for contributions from the financial sector, the banks that make significant profits, which otherwise contribute to the successful functioning of the economy, to the value of HUF 55 billion. One of our debates with the European Union has been won together with the Poles, and this has been a tax on multinational chains. There is no obstacle to this return, since the European Court of Justice has ruled in accordance with our opinion. We were forced to do this earlier. With its current introduction, multinational chains also contribute HUF 36 billion to spending. We believe that these expenditures pose serious difficulties in the day-to-day operation of the government, but they can be solved. The government set a good example because it created most of the protection costs from its own budget. In short, I would just like to refer to the municipalities, because I believe that statements which have been made without regard to party affiliation from the opposition do not assess the seriousness of the situation. The budget of the municipalities in 2010 is the last budget year in which you accepted the budget for HUF 1800 billion, and then we took over the entire health and education section. Last year there were 1760 HUF, which is almost 1800 billion HUF, while the municipalities were freed from 1,400 billion debts. In this situation, the contribution that affects 3-4 percent of the local government's budget overall and on average is as low as possible in view of the situation and in relation to the economic downturn that can be expected. The Prime Minister also reported that we consider it important to protect jobs in this period as well. As many jobs as are lost, we want to create so much. We will also contribute to the payment of wages, so that the government will take over in part; and with the return and return of the 13th month's pension, the government would also like to salute the elderly in the most difficult situation and express that we are in trouble together, and the oldest generation can count on the government's support. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-06-2	In a row of two-minute reactions to the factions, I give the word first to Peter James.
u2020-04-06-3	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, On the way over here, a worker stopped me on the street. [[Defiance and interruptions from the benches of the governing parties. Noise in the room.]] And he told me to tell the Prime Minister that if everything goes on as it has been, then either the virus will take us or starve us to death. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] The fact is, Minister, that after Viktor Orbán's announcement today, I could not reassure this gentleman, because Prime Minister did not announce anything in terms of job protection. Exactly nothing, Minister. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: What percentage?]] This is a faulty omission, because the price of idleness is that every day the number of unemployed people in Hungary is growing by 4 thousand, and this is your responsibility. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right!]] After that, I'm telling you what not to do. Don't loot the local governments, Minister, there's no need. Don't take people's money in the settlements. [[13.20]] Don't take the money away from the defense. There is no need to pursue a austerity policy, Minister, because there is money. Do you know where he is? 150 billion for propaganda, 600 billion for the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, the much-damned Brussels made 2000 billion forints liberable. [[Noise from the pro-government benches.]] Obviously, I know you're saying this money isn't extra money and it's tied up. But who cares, Minister? Who cares? ! They just voted for the Prime Minister's unlimited power for an unlimited period of time. You can do anything, and you can do the opposite. All you have to do now is, you know, that the EU funds that Ripper intended for the family must now be transferred into the pockets of nurses, policemen and workers. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: With our money!]] By the way, familia. Where's the family tax, Minister? Butcher Lawrence should be reaching into his pocket now, his own pocket, so it's clear. We should do this now! It's time to play a part in public burdens, Minister. So we propose that at least 80 percent of the workers' wages should be taken over by the state, and that we impose an extraordinary tax on the kind of Rippers, if you will, on Rippers, so that they do not carry this country on their backs by those who are looking for the worst, because they will die. Workers need help, so let us help them here and now, let us not delay. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches. Dr. Pál Völner: Demagog!]]
u2020-04-06-4	Bertalan Tóth is next.
u2020-04-06-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, I would like to make constructive proposals then, listening to your comments and to the Prime Minister's announcement, as he has attempted to see if this cooperation can be restored. More money for the people! No one should be left without income and care. Increase the period of unemployment benefit from three to nine months, and do not receive less than HUF 100,000 for workers who have lost their jobs! Give more money to the pensioners and not next February, I beg you, now! Raise your pension by 6.5 percent. I'm telling you, that's three times what they're gonna get as a week's pension supplement next February. More money for businesses! Advertise a staff stop in the public sector, advertise a staff stop in multinational companies that have carried thousands of billions of forints out of this country and give a salary supplement, as my fellow Member has said, an 80% wage supplement for businesses! More money for the municipalities! What you're doing to the municipalities is a sin, because they're on the ground in the settlements. In my volunteer work, I saw with my own eyes how much pressure this would be. Give me more money, don't take it, give me more money. One more thought: no money for friends, no money for relatives, because the tantus fell off, this whole circus you've been doing here last week and the week before, has served nothing but to bring in an outrageous salad law, in which you hide public money, and to provide income, land, and many things to your background oligarchs, friends, relatives. I ask you to make more money for the Hungarian people. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-06-6	Szabó Timea is next.
u2020-04-06-7	Minister, I'm not surprised the Prime Minister didn't dare come in. [[Rushing from the pro-government benches.]] After such a meaningless announcement. Today's announcement is it that, next year and after that, pensioners get a week's pension every year? Well, that's quite an announcement. Is that really what you're gonna save this country from? Well, you should be ashamed to call it an announcement and a national defense. It is very right that taxes have been levied on multinationals, by the way. What about your oligarchs? What about Lurch Mészáros, what about the thief Tiborcz, what about all their other friends who have stolen billions of EU funds and public procurement in the last ten years? When do they get any taxes? Never, because you are not dealing with Hungarian people, but again with filling the pockets of your own buddies. I'm sorry, it's a face-toast announcement to health workers to spot their eyes with a one-time net allowance of 330,000 forints. That's two months' pay, while the nurses work for 200,000 forints a month without receiving overtime money, either now or in the coming months. So what you've just offered as a one-time allowance is not even enough to pay overtime. Besides, I'm sorry, there's not enough protective equipment in the Hungarian hospitals. After that, Péter Szijjártó announces today that Hungary has donated 100,000 masks to northern Macedonia? ! Are you guys crazy? ! Don't you feel that Hungarian hospitals and health institutions need masks? Come to your senses! What's going on? They're filling their own pockets and diverting attention from the depraved laws they've filed this week. They want us not to talk about the encryption of the 600 billion forints Belgrade railway line. Come to your senses.
u2020-04-06-8	Calm down, gentlemen, calm down. I get it, but don't worry. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] It's Erzsébet Schmuck's turn. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Despite my endangered age, I came to Parliament to listen to the government's economic defense program. I thought it was very important because hundreds of thousands of people have a very serious problem. In rural areas, hunger began to occur and not the coronal virus epidemic. [[Moore from the pro-government benches. * Intercom at the same place: Come on!]] I am disappointed in Mr. Prime Minister's announcements, too general, many of which cannot be deducted. But one can definitely be deducted, namely that the government has renounced pensioners. I think it's a shame what you're talking about, that you'll get 13 months, but it'll be next year. They're gonna be in February next year for a month. , to receive a week's pension, which is about 30 thousand forints. Until then, what about the pensioners? You do not think that you owe pensioners this year as well. At the beginning of the year, they received a pension increase below 3 percent, while inflation is already above 4 percent, food prices have skyrocketed. How will poor pensioners and low pensioners live in the coming months? Unacceptable! If you want to help the retirement society, you don't have to do anything next year, you have to do it now, next month. As a first step, it should be raised next month, giving pensioners what is due: the difference between inflation and the pension increase at the beginning of the year. You know very well that this year GDP will be below 3.5 percent. Retirementes won't get a premium pension. If you really think you're helping the elderly, then you're gonna have to do it now, next month, and not the 13th month's pension next year, and then you're gonna want to give it to me. Thank you.
u2020-04-06-10	Lajos Oláh is next.
u2020-04-06-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear House, Today's economic package announced by the Prime Minister offers virtually hopelessness instead of a lifeline. According to today's announcement, you can't laugh at any of the extra wages, but those who are on the street and are unemployed don't laugh, you don't give any extra wages to those who have already been laid off. That means tens of thousands of people. You do not touch the family allowance, and that means leaving the poorest families on the side of the road. Today, a simple mask costs 600 forints, and the chicken breast often costs 2 thousand forints on the market. You basically only told the pensioners distant promises, but you don't help them at all. Dear Minister, If your house is on fire, is it okay for you to say that the fireman will come next year and sit down and rest, in case the miracle will help you? ! Dear Minister, I think you not only left the pensioners on the side of the road, but you even pushed one on them when you took money from the municipalities, because you delegated to the municipalities to solve the care of the pensioners, and you delegated, did not take away the task, but you took away the money. So the money you took from the local government, you took from the pensioners. Dear Minister, Give immediate help to pensioners, don't wait for something to happen next year. Make sure that people who have been laid off have 80% of their previous salary. Extend your job-seeking allowance, advertise a regime-oratorium, and please accept as much of the 20 points that DK announced on the weekend as possible in the interests of the economy and the country. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2020-04-06-12	Imre Vejkey is next. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-13	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Thank you for your speech before the agenda. We Christian Democrats fully agree with what Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has announced today and also what the government has done in this emergency. The most important thing is to protect people's health and lives. [[13.30]] It is therefore incomprehensible to us that the opposition and Brussels do not see it that way. It is incomprehensible to us that we are being kicked with open lies from the opposition and from Brussels during the emergency, almost by now sending blue helmets to the country. It is incomprehensible that the European Union is not dealing with the Crown Virus during the pandemic, but with Hungary and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. They're screaming at Easter's coming up to squeezing it! It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's They don't realize that people can see right through you. They see their incompetence, their incompetence. They do not realize that people are concerned about other people, their lives and their livelihoods. Now they're telling us from Brussels that we've had a dictatorship for a week, and they've lied before that it's been ten years. We've been in a democracy for ten years, and we're in a democracy right now. As a representative elected freely by the people, I have been able to speak freely and speak freely in the Hungarian Parliament. [[Defiance on the opposition side.]] I'm glad we have democracy. Who says the opposite, ladies and gentlemen, is driven by desire-drivenness and not the truth. Therefore, the desire-driven ones from Brussels and from home are no longer just beating us up, but also calling us false judgments in the face of hatred. And Monty Python, which they have implemented, is no longer a question of European people and freedom, but of the power of the Brussels-Strasbourg-Soros-triumvirate. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Moraj on the opposition side.]]
u2020-04-06-14	After having had a good time with my fellow opposition Members, I would like to warn you that freedom of speech exists, but not the freedom to yell. It's time for Congressman Máté Kocsis.
u2020-04-06-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Welcome to the Parliament, which was eliminated and closed by the government last week, where I learned from the opposition the following completely new facts for me. Let's start with the councils. Dear fellow Members, I take the liberty, after 12 years of government leadership, to clear your mind of what this is all about. The government transferred 1345 plus HUF 663 billion from its own budget to the epidemiological and economic protection and economic reinforcement fund. The banks withdraw 55 billion forints from the banks, 36 from the multinationals and 34 from the municipalities, the least. What does this mean for the car tax? Budapest VIII. I could also mention Szolnok or any other settlement in his district, even better, as Minister said, because, for example, Budapest VIII. A total of 0.7 percent of last year's total budget of the 25 billion dollars was the motor vehicle tax, HUF 184 million. This means that the municipalities, dear fellow Members, do not have to pay 99.3% of their budget into the solidarity fund. They are the smallest undertaking [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] They're the ones with all the money left. By the way, don't talk about local governments as if you were the majority there, the majority of mayors are pro-government, who don't complain, but do their job. And one more thought because of the shortness of time: your crisis management is different from ours, and it is now very well seen that you have taken away a month's pension during the crisis, and the current government has decided to give back a month's pension. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] You took a month's wages during the crisis, and the current government is giving you money to protect jobs. Thank you, Mr. President. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2020-04-06-16	Interventions before the announced agenda will follow. First I give the floor to Szabó Timea.
u2020-04-06-17	Ladies and gentlemen, Trust me, Mr Orbán said exactly a week ago, when the Dialogue and the other opposition parties asked not to adopt the time-limited mandate law. Trust me, the Prime Minister said, ensuring that everyone will not use the law to build their own dictatorship. The Prime Minister has solemnly promised that we will negotiate only important emergency laws, only government regulations relating to the prevention of the epidemic and the relief of the economic situation will be adopted. Since then, Viktor Orbán has been lying again. Viktor Orbán defrauded the Hungarian people in a despicable way. The paper of the law was not even cold under the zealous hands of János Áder, when Viktor Orbán slylyly submitted a series of bill proposals that had nothing to do with the epidemic situation, building only the dictatorship of Fidesz. Because what does it have to do with the control of the coronal virus that the government wants to encrypt the construction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line for 600 billion HUF this week? Unless you're trying to encrypt it so that Lawrence Ripper and the rest of your buddies can continue stealing without delay. That's what the government does in dictatorship. Or what does it have to do with the control of the coronal virus by the government, against the will of two million people in Budapest, despite the decision of the General Assembly of Budapest, to cement the City Park? What did Viktor Orbán say in the fall? The Government of Hungary does not wish to implement developments in Budapest that the responsible leaders of Budapest do not want; if they say that there is no Liget investment, there will be no Liget investment. That means Viktor Orbán lied again. The remaining bodies, independent of the government and elected by the people, are also despicablely overwriting their decisions. This is called a dictatorship, my fellow Members. Trust me, Viktor Orbán said a week ago. Well, shame on the Prime Minister. You can trust the country the way you trust the cabbage. Orbán's disease management is nothing more than Liget cementation, billion-dollar public procurement secrecy, real estate reenactment for friends, destruction of nature conservation areas, preparation for the privateization of universities. The Dialogue demands the immediate withdrawal of these shady, dictatorship-building bill. Take it back and get to the point, because there's still not enough protective equipment in hospitals. Five hundred Hungarians came home from Tirol the other day, who were completely winded at the border. And the hospital staff, as I told you before, have a handout to their eyes. And where do they get all this money? Yeah, well, from the local authorities and the opposition parties, you're trying to make it look different. Do you really believe that people can't see through the fact that they want to bleed out Budapest and the opposition-led cities for 34 billion forints? And you don't think we can see that this is just the first two or three steps you're preparing for in the next few weeks with the municipalities? Interestingly, 150 billion forints could still be allocated to government propaganda this year. It is quite clear that Viktor Orbán is taking revenge on the opposition after 13 October for victory, and he cannot bear the fact that there are other cities that he does not control. Interestingly, you're talking about sharing a burden when, as I said earlier, Lőrinc Mészáros, István Tiborcz and all your thieves are still not willing to sacrifice a penny for disease control. But we're gonna help you figure out where you're gonna take the money from. For example, stop this year's HUF 77 billion investment in Paks II construction! Stop the construction of the 170 billion forint athletic stadium! Return this year's HUF 62 billion Tao grant! Stop Lőrinc Mészáros' water park planned for HUF 20 billion! Return the government's budget for 150 billion forints of propaganda and stop the illegally re-launched Liget project! These are just a few of the measures from which more money could be made and could indeed be helped by people; and not in the way that you do, by pretending measures, but by real measures. And what are these? We are not giving handouts to health workers, honourable government representatives, but we must double their monthly wages. Let's double the family allowance. Be sure to introduce the basic income for crisis management so that everyone can earn a hundred thousand forints a month. Raise your job search allowance from three months to nine months. We have the lowest time and the lowest amount in Europe. These are the real measures. Thank you.
u2020-04-06-18	State Secretary Csaba Dömötör will answer. Here you go. [[13.40]]
u2020-04-06-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, as you said, we voted here last week to extend the emergency situation, and then you said that the suspension of parliamentarism is not compatible with the rule of law, Mr Arató said directly that the government wishes to govern without a parliament, Mr Bertalan Tóth, who is now leaving, [[Bertalan Tóth beckons to Csaba Dömötör.]] and he indicated that the government wanted to take the Parliament out of power for a long time and that this interpretation was taken over by foreign actors, as is usually the case. So the fact that you have spoken here, which is natural, and that the representatives of the other opposition parties have also spoken and will speak today is proof that you have not told the truth, that Parliament will continue its work in an emergency. I do not want to think about it any more now, but this draws our attention to the fact that, in an emergency situation, opposition parties have twice as much responsibility for not misrepresenting Hungarian citizens, because it can have even more serious consequences. I'm asking you to put yourselves on the foundation of reality at least this time of year. As it follows from what you have said, the extraordinary measures concern the fight against the epidemic, and other proposals are put on the agenda of the Parliament as usual. Dear House, As of this morning, 744 infected patients were diagnosed, which means that we have not yet entered the period of mass illness, and we are working to ensure that this happens as soon as possible. If we buy time, we can win lives. [[Intercoms to Szabó Timea, who had just left the room, from the ranks of the governing parties: Where are you going?! Dr. Bence Szabó Timea Rétvári: It's for you!]] Madam President, this is not the first time you've done this. [[Szabó Timea is leaving the room.]] to listen to his own speech [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: This is the dialogue! That's the dialogue.]] It also shows that he is not interested in the answer at all, but in some other, probably party political considerations. But I will say that, in addition to the protection of lives, we really have to deal with the economic consequences, which is why the government has decided to create a separate fund for the control of the epidemic, and we have to bear the burden together, we have to bear the burden of the multinationals, the banks, the government, and, yes, the political parties, not just the opposition parties, but also the governing parties. And what I'm sure of it is that from this fund you will be able to pay the medical staff 500 thousand forints of extra money, which, if I recall it correctly a few days ago, you also demanded in a big voice. Since the Congresswoman has left the House, I address it to you because she has raised the issues of Budapest and the question of local authorities here, we know that the capital may be one of the focal points of illness, so it doesn't matter what cooperation between Budapest City Hall and the government is. I'm bringing this up because there were some things that happened last week that didn't help fight the virus. On the one hand, the mayor decided to thin the flights, causing congestion on some morning flights, making it difficult to comply with distance rules. From the decision, we're hoping it's still in time. Parking is equally crucial. The capital did not support temporary free parking, which is also important because it makes it easier to comply with the rules of distance, so the government had to make a decision; it did so yesterday, so as of today, parking is free on the territory of the country. And to bring up a third phenomenon affecting Budapest, it turned out this weekend that from a metropolitan nursing home, elderly people were sent to the hospital without being told that a highly affected institution was a threat to the safety of health care workers. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, If you wish to take action against this epidemic, I would ask you to convince your party president, the mayor, to take greater care of these matters, it is in our common interest that he take responsibility and be effective in defence. This is no longer the case when it will be enough to point the finger at the government, taking responsibility! Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-20	Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group, on behalf of the LMP, has also applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-04-06-21	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Mr. Csaba Dömötör State Secretary, I very much hope that opposition representatives do not have to thank you for the opportunity to speak in the Hungarian Parliament. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] I felt his sentences were a little strong. At the same time, Mr Csaba Dömötör referred to a one-off benefit for healthcare workers, which we saw as a government measure last week. Last weekend, I think, as Minister Gulyás informed us, more than 10 percent of all certified infected people have come from health care workers. This also underlines the sacrifice that the current situation requires from health workers, and that it is not only natural to thank them every day in every possible forum for the work they do to preserve the health of Hungarian people, and we also thank everyone who works in the front line, but in addition to that, it is the appreciation that must now come to the fore. We consider this one-time allowance of HUF 500,000 an important and positive step, but we believe that it is not enough, it is not enough, and we need a 50% increase this year as well. And by the way, the measures the government is planning to take, and we can see the budget coming together, there would be plenty of budget coverage this year, so I am very, very much asking the members of the government to take action on this, so that the real appreciation can be given to first-line health workers working and struggling. This weekend, before the Prime Minister and here on the agenda, the Minister also said that the enormous costs of defence and the harmful effects of the epidemic itself, which are now inaccessible, must be shared by everyone. We fully agree with this, but in the next few weeks, we will see whether the government uses it as a slogan or is serious about it, in any case we will try to take a constructive approach to this current situation, so we will have more proposals. We will pay attention to the details of the Prime Minister's announcement today, but we are concerned that the Prime Minister has not spoken about those who have already lost their income or are losing their jobs in the coming weeks, so that they are in the unemployment situation and we have not yet learned anything about his support. We feel it is important to say that we consider it a very bad direction to introduce any restrictions on public services, because we can see that very, very many people in the public sector have already lost their jobs, a lot of people have been fired. And we find it particularly dangerous that local governments, which are the number one bastions of defense, are also subject to such restrictions, which we have seen in recent times. Well, at the level of the proposals, we would like to add a little more to this mutual burden, so we will have more concrete proposals. Our first proposal will be the introduction of a national solidarity tax on high assets, the details of which will be presented. We would like to introduce such a solidarity tax in the case of assets exceeding HUF 500 million or in the case of assets exceeding 1 billion to the extent of another band. Similarly, for revenues which are also astronomical revenues linked to various dividends, we consider it necessary to introduce a special tax on them above a defined level and a fixed amount. We know that last year there was a private individual who, along with his family members, could receive a dividend of HUF 28 billion. We believe that, if you truly believe that bearing burdens will extend to everyone, then I very much hope that you will support our proposal. It is very, very important that, if we look at this year's budget carefully, there are lots of items that can strengthen the defence and this solidarity fund. To mention just a few examples: the Budapest-Belgrád railway line has been mentioned by several fellow Members, in this respect more than HUF 60 billion is included in the budget this year, but we know that the overall total will be a thousand billion HUF project with interest. I think that we will be discussing this here this week anyway, one of the first measures on the part of the government should be to stop this project. Similarly, 30 billion of the Liget project, Paks II. This year's planned HUF 87 billion is either an extraordinary deposit by the MNB, which amounts to 100 billion, or the HUF 35 billion of the Budapest event hall, the HUF 25 billion planned for the development of Hungexpo, is an item that we believe should be transferred as a first step. Similarly, the 18 billion planned by EMMI companies to support tasks, MNV Zrt. We see 14 billion in real estate investments, and likewise my fellow Members will say that tens of billions of HUF can be transferred to support public media propaganda. Communication is very important, but communication must now focus on information, tasks and information about the epidemiological situation. Well, in conclusion, my fellow Members, I am very confident that they are honestly saying that everyone must take part in the burden. For our part, we will continue to be constructive, and we will make proposals to shift billions of these unnecessary investments, a great deal of money to control the epidemic. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] and to alleviate the economic damage caused by the epidemic. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-06-22	State Secretary Bence Rétvári has the floor.
u2020-04-06-23	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, We cannot say it enough here in Parliament because, as we have said many times, the really difficult part of the epidemic is still ahead of us, that we have all our appreciation and appreciation for those brave health workers, doctors and nurses working on a sickbed, who are fighting against a virus, infection and epidemic that is still not known scientifically to them, and are trying to save the health and life of as many of our fellow citizens as possible; this is why, among other things, the government has decided to provide this 500 thousand forints this year's additional benefit to health workers. [[13.50]] But this is not the only measure, and you know it, Mr honourable Member, which provided health professionals and nurses this year, because there was already a 14 percent increase in January this year, followed by an additional 20 percent increase in wages in the autumn. Therefore, overall, in this cycle, if I do not count on this one-off benefit, the government's decisions so far represent a 72 percent increase in wages for health care nurses and workers, and there is also this HUF 500,000 bonus. It is also important to maintain their health. You yourself have pointed out that European experience shows that one of the most prominent groups is health care workers, if not age or chronic diseases, because in Italy, too, there were gigantic numbers of infected healthcare workers, and 80 doctors unfortunately died in the fight against the coronal virus. Even in Spain, 30 health workers have died, and more than 14 percent of all infected are health workers. In Ireland, one in four patients is a doctor or nurse, and in Romania, the proportion of healthcare workers is above 15%. This is why it is important that the government has decided that it will also provide protective equipment to everyone in a specific order, because we are preparing for a long defense and must protect health workers in particular, because based on international examples it is obvious and clear that they are the most at risk. That's why it was important that nearly 30, and now more than 30 aircraft, have landed and landed in Budapest with sanitary protective equipment. The world's largest cargo plane has landed in Budapest in the last few days, bringing together more than 19 million medical surgeon masks, more than 1 million 700 thousand special masks, 206 thousand masks, 8 tons of mask material, from which we can manufacture at home protective equipment, 30,000 pairs of rubber gloves, 86 respirators, and more: 430,000 protective suits, 100,000 tests, 100,000 goggles and 27 tons of other protective equipment. It is also very important for us to maintain health for both people and health workers, which is why these shipments have arrived. I think this is a very graphic example of how we try to protect the health of Hungarian people and bring so much protective equipment here in such a short time. I think everyone can see that you're trying to protect people beyond the power of the government. So much for the first part of what you said, honourable Member, about the protection of health workers. The second is what you made as an economic proposal: firstly, as the leader of the Green Party of Hungary, you demanded that railway constructions be stopped during the crisis. In the crisis, Hungary's green party asks for the closure of railway constructions here, first mentioned in the Hungarian Parliament. And beyond that, he gave a long list of the investments to be stopped in Hungary. Honourable Congressman, If the investments in Hungary stop, then you should know that this negative spiral will only carry it down as we have already seen in Hungary between 2006 and 2008. In addition, you have proposed tax increases and the introduction of new taxes. The introduction of a property tax that has already been repealed with the help of the Constitutional Court. The Gyurcsány government had this so-called innovation to tax the Hungarian people's wealth. You've already pulled this out in the previous campaign, always taking out the real estate tax case. It's a good thing the Constitutional Court wiped this thing off the table. In addition, you are proposing restrictions, honourable Member; that is to say, closure of investments, tax increases, austerity. This road leads to what we saw in Hungary's history a long decade ago, around 2008, which caused the economic crisis in Hungary, has deepened the global crisis in Hungary, leading to 12 percent unemployment and hundreds of thousands of deprived families, honourable Member. This is not the way for Hungary to get out of the future crisis. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-06-24	Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, applied for a pre-meeting speech. I give you the floor.
u2020-04-06-25	Dear House, Honourable Members, We were saddened by the fact that European countries announced one by one their larger crisis response packages while you were dealing with something completely different. In recent weeks, you have been the only government on the continent that has not dealt with the protection of jobs, but have been busy trying to squeeze out more power from this situation, while perhaps crossing the opposition and the local authorities to avoid replacing party politics with national cooperation. In the last few weeks, you've been more concerned with our discrediting than protecting this country. Today is April 6th, and it took so long for you to say something, even if it didn't really work out. You didn't even think about how you could help people in quarantine, parents in school detention, and their employers. They left them on the side of the road. There seems to be no more dangerous combination in this country for the organization, the whole economy, than the combination of the corona virus and the Fidesz. And the low-flying of the forint is a striking symptom of this. We therefore now need a crisis response package that deals with the damage caused by your delay and weak announcement. DK presented such a package a few days ago, protecting jobs from the size of HUF 3000 billion and replacing the wages of those who have already been abandoned by you. According to DK's package, companies which undertake not to dismiss workers despite a significant fall in their turnover should be assisted by State resources in the payment of wages, taking over this salary by 20-40 percent. The formula is simple: if the company undertakes not to fire a person at these times, then the state undertakes to help pay the wages of the workers thus retained. According to DK's package, those who have been dismissed or sent on unpaid leave must pay 80% of their salary from state resources. The same should be done for individual entrepreneurs and Hungarian micro-enterprises with fewer than five employees. Don't tell us, Prime Minister, that it's purely aid and that you shouldn't give money without performance. Do not confuse the performance of Hungarians with football players who earn millions without performance! Do not confuse Hungarians with fidesz relatives, sons-in-laws and oligarchs who have become the richest people in the country without performance. Do not compare those who have worked hard every day until the epidemic and the epidemiological measures have made it impossible. They do deserve that when the coronal virus yanked the ground from under their feet, they get part of their pay to survive until they can get back to work. People, Hungarian companies, family businesses, families are being destroyed. All year long, hardworking fathers and mothers go home and have to tell their families at home and lose their jobs and homes. You have been busy with a delegation law and the discrediting of the opposition, the sabotage of the municipalities for weeks, and then the smallest package of Europe was announced after long labor. We could also talk about the DK 3000 billion package on why there is a need to postpone the salaries of all individuals and small businesses, why the wages of health and social workers should be doubled, why paid leave should be given to parents with small children. But apparently that doesn't make much sense, because you don't care about the real world. But if you decide to present a more normal crisis response package, then I suggest you run through DK's 20-point economic and social proposals, and you won't hear a word of it from us, just do it already, because otherwise the country will be ruined in a minimal presentation called this package. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-06-26	Mr. Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary will be next.
u2020-04-06-27	Honourable Congressman, I would like to inform you in advance that the Prime Minister has made announcements at noon today and has also provided information on the areas and important decisions you have mentioned. I would like to ask you to take a look, because if you simply do not bother to see what the Prime Minister of Hungary has announced, then there is no point in talking here. Yeah, that's the thing. Because you mentioned areas when announcements were made today. Please take a look at these, and then we can discuss the details in substance. We agree on one thing, however, that we must already make strong decisions to minimise the economic consequences of the epidemic in order to put as few jobs as possible at risk. It is therefore necessary to redefine the budget, which is why the government has decided to establish a new fund. I've seen you put a lot of precise suggestions on the table, maybe 20 points, and I'm not going to go into the details of that, and you're going to do it anyway. [[14.00]] But there is one striking feature of this plan: the fact that it has a long-term perspective on unemployment wants to settle into an economic situation that is hit by very high unemployment. This is reflected in the proposals for support that you put on the table and put on paper. They say it in one place, and it's very talkative to pay even when there's no job. If we understand the opposition well, not just you, but all the speeches, then they want us to stop the investments, make it even more unemployment and spend the money that will be released on aid. This is how the opposition's proposal can be summarised. I have to tell you, this is irresponsible to play with fire. And do you know why? Because it took this country ten years to turn its back on a time when it was better worth living on welfare instead of work. There are millions of Hungarians working in the process that unemployment has been managed from nearly 12 percent to less than 4 percent, and you would turn back with a sharp turn. I'm asking you not to. Don't do it! On the other hand, we want to preserve jobs and prevent Hungarian companies from going into layoffs. This is why the government has decided to take over some of the labour costs from employers in the case of short-term work, which is why the government provides HUF 450 billion in support of investments, which is why the government provides a helping hand to the priority sectors, and therefore provides interest and guarantee loans to Hungarian businesses for a value of EUR 2000 billion. I really urge Congressman to look at the announcement because it is important. Your suggestions include a 100 percent health pay increase. 100 percent! Sounds nice, but it doesn't matter who it's from. If it's from the people who took money from the medical staff, it's uncredited. You have had the opportunity to raise this much, but you have not, instead you have withdrawn 600 billion, you have eliminated 16,000 active beds, and you have put 6,000 health workers on the streets, and you would have paid for Hungarian health care. If this plan had come true, all patients with coronal viruses would have to pay for the care today. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: Lies!]] They also talk about a pension supplement in these plans by taking away a month's benefits. He voted for the people sitting here, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Gergely Arató, Ágnes Vadai, and I have the list here, honourable Member, and you voted for it. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: Shame!]] So while you're proposing a pension supplement, there's your name on the record, you took a month's wages from the elderly. Either way, the government will give this back, above all because, while protecting jobs is a priority, we must not forget those who have carried this country on their backs for decades. Honourable Congressman, The crisis management approach between the left and the government seems to be separated by a world. Now, you'd spend the world's money, but when the left was supposed to overcome a crisis, you'd be caught up, you'd call the IMF, you'd cut wages, you'd be fired, you'd be taken away and you'd be squeezed. [[Intercoms from the ranks of the governing parties, among them: Yes!]] That's what they did. And the left-wing prime minister Bajnai Gordon, who was considered an expert, said that it would hurt and hurt millions of Hungarians, and that Bajnai Gordon was now once again qualified on TV as if it had nothing to do with it. In many years we were able to get out from under the ruins, it took many years for the house of the Hungarian economy to get stronger foundations again. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We can now build on this, and the action plan announced today serves and will serve this purpose. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-28	I now give the floor again to Bertalan Tóth, leader of the faction. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-29	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Seeing that my fellow Members are still busy with us and not with crisis management and defence, I am therefore forced to put a few things in such a simple way that the Members who are sitting across from me can understand. The first is that we are pleased that our proposal has been followed and healthcare workers have been given a one-time allowance of HUF 500,000. That's good. But what about everyday heroes who also work for us in social care, community transport, postal services, retail? They are all at increased risk, they are entitled to protective equipment, and they are entitled to financial recognition. Secondly, we agree with the increase in banks and multinationals' contributions, and we take note of the reduction in the budgetary support of the parties. This is good, but we do not agree with the extra tasks and responsibility of the municipalities when dealing with the crisis, and then they are pledging them. This is something the world has never heard before. In my volunteer work, as I mentioned, I saw with my own eyes the burden for municipalities to take part in defence. What you're doing is a crime. Third, we are glad that you have found 1345 billion forints that you can regroup, but don't pretend, fellow Members, that this is your money, because this is everyone's money, this is people's money, it's theirs, and it's about time it was for them. And by the way, if you guys found that much money, 1345 billion forints, then it's finally proven that this money was missing from social services, missing health care and missing education. The fourth, honourable Members, is that we are here in Parliament. Then I do not understand what the circus around the delegation law was good for, but then, as I mentioned, the tantus has fallen off, and it is understandable, because the Fidesz majority of Parliament is not dealing with the solution to the crisis, but with the elimination of freedom of the press, and how to fill the pockets of the fidesz oligarchs even more, and how to hide it from the public. At the time of the collapse of the economy and society, your activities are no different from what the Hungarian Criminal Code calls looting. Number five, they've already told us how much money they're going to take from. I am sorry that this list lacks the names of Mészáros, Lőrinc, István Garancsi, István Tiborcz and many others. We haven't heard about how they want to help us. Ladies and gentlemen, To survive, we need to act without delay, we need to help each other, and we need to give everyone a chance to emerge from the crisis caused by the epidemic, not just the culture, not just the few chosen, but everyone. You have to protect people, no one stays without income and care. The period of unemployment benefit and its amount should also be increased. You have to double your family allowance, your child, your child, your maternity allowance. We need to take care of the pensioners, and not like you do next year, but now. We need an immediate pension increase and a one-off lump sum grant. Spread out childcare benefits for all those who take care of children under the age of 14 at home! The SZÉP card should not only freeze costs, but also allow the amount to be transferred to buy food, which could also help workers. To the extent that the average monthly consumption does not exceed 3 months, no charges shall be charged. There's a lot of ten, a hundred billion forints at the state firm, they can fix that. Protect businesses so that jobs remain, there should be a discharge moratorium in the public sector and the largest employer in multinational companies with huge profits! In the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, workers are employed in reduced working hours rather than in layoffs, as the Prime Minister referred to, but they take over 80% of wages and contributions! Give more money to the municipalities to defend and strengthen the social network. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, please convince the Prime Minister not to fill the pockets of relatives and friends, not to save their money, but to give more money to people, more money to businesses and more money to local governments for our common future, for Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-06-30	State Secretary Csaba Dömötör will answer. [[For signal:]] Sorry, Balázs Orbán. Excuse me.
u2020-04-06-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, The most important thing, however, is to say a few words about the epidemic, because it is not a political choice. If the numbers are monitored, it can be said that the epidemiological control measures taken in recent weeks have successfully slowed down the spread of the epidemic, both in Central Europe and in Europe. But the numbers are increasing, the epidemic is here in Hungary, and as experts of the operational tribe have also spoken about it, it is in some cities, in some settlements, that it has a significantly greater presence than in other settlements. [[14.10]] It is clear to everyone that Budapest stands out; most of the infected are connected to Budapest. I, too, would like to ask Mr. Group Leader something. I would like to ask you to influence Gergely Christmas, your ally, the mayor and other mayors of the District, not risk human lives and not politics, but to join forces in the defense of the epidemic. For the conduct they have shown in the past few days can be considered nothing more than irresponsible conduct. What we need now, and especially in the case of Budapest, is to reduce the number of social contacts, and that is the case with public transport. And when it is necessary for public transport to operate even better than before, in accordance with the requirements set out in the epidemic, we see crowds in public transport and crowds waiting for us to stop. It's nothing more than causing focal points. I think that's unacceptable. So I would like to ask you to fulfil your duty to care for the elderly, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to comply with your duty to ensure that the conditions for keeping the distance laid down by law are also met in public transport. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The other thing is that you mentioned, on the one hand, the package that you are proposing, the contribution of your fellow parties and the authorities. It is, however, that the package that the Prime Minister has just announced is not only the only package, but also a second set of steps, which represents 20 per cent of GDP, which is HUF 9000 billion in scale. What you're talking about, the measures you're talking about, they're not even close to that magnitude. The other thing I would like to say to you is that if you look into this package in the spirit of shared burden-sharing, i.e. in the spirit of solidarity, how much you need to put together and put together, then you can see that the contribution of the municipalities is small compared to, say, the contribution of the central budget or other organisations such as multinational companies. And if you look at what Minister also referred to in his speech before the agenda, how, in addition to all this, when the municipalities were in difficulty, how the government helped them and how their incomes have changed in recent years, you can see that the revenues available to municipalities have doubled, and we would like to ask for them, just as the other representatives of the political class, regardless of party policy logic, for their contribution. And there are those mayors who accept that this is not easy, the epidemic requires great endurance and sacrifice from everyone, but there are those who accept it, and they are typically part of your political family, who are using this for a party political campaign. Mr. Group Leader said you didn't understand what the circus about the delegation law was good for. I don't understand either, Mr. Fraction Manager, because it certainly didn't make any sense, and it didn't serve the issue of the protection against the Hungarian people and the epidemic, it's very clear. It's very clear. So what I would like to ask you to do is, if you are serious about the importance of life, health, security and the re-launching of the economy of the Hungarian people, to change your mind and to support the government's actions in this regard. Change your attitude, because so far, you have done nothing to protect against the epidemic, and now there is time to bear a common burden. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-32	Thank you, Mr. Balázs Orbán State Secretary. I salute my fellow Members. I give the floor to the speaker before the agenda, János Stummer, MEP Jobbikos, address of his speech: Where is the money? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2020-04-06-33	Where is the money, my dear gentlemen? Isn't that the big question that both you and I are interested in? [[An intervention in the ranks of Fidesz.]] And it's very necessary now, isn't it? How nice it would be if now, when there's trouble, there were places to reach, if there was a little more to push the wages of health workers, not just once in this life, but every month, dear gentlemen. But how good it would be to have some more in the subloo that could be given to the families who have lost their bread from the table in the last few days and weeks! Wouldn't that be nice? ! Then you shouldn't sting a little bit, you shouldn't pull that particular belt there, and you shouldn't squeeze it over there. But there's nothing to it, and you know it. You know better than anyone. Then where's the money? You don't have to think too much, you don't have to worry, you don't have to step out of your comfort zone, I'll tell you this: you have the money; you and your friends! [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] There he is! Take a look around. [[Uproar and interrogation in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] There he is! Take a look around. (Influence and intervention in the ranks of the governing parties. ) Easy, easy, easy. Gentlemen. Gentlemen, I see you're very sensitive to your wallet. (Interjections in the ranks of the governing parties. ) I've touched a very sensitive spot. Respect for the exception. We must be fair: respect for the exception. Yes, there are some of you who have not spent the last ten years raising wealth, who have not written such applications, who have not intervened, who have not tapped, who have not arranged for Mama's lame pig farm, but it is a pity that Mr. Kósa is not here, who have not bought half of Hungary's counties, woefully, but it is good that Mr. Simonka is here, that they have not paid for EU money for cheerleaders; indeed, where is Mr. Borkai, please tell us! (Interjections in the ranks of the governing parties. ) No, no. There are people like that among you, not too many, but there are some. They are one of you who watched the grating, who for the last ten years have been silent about stealing Hungarian public property. But if you're out of the joint, if you're not out of the joint, what I'm about to say is for all of you, for each one of you, for whom it's time to pay back. In the last ten years, you have built a new national capital class around you on the grounds of national unity, and you have not denied it. They didn't hide this thing under a bushel. But they also referred to the national interest when the new elite was added to hundreds of millions through the foundations of the Hungarian National Bank; they referred to the national interest when the private pension fund was stolen, so that they could spend it on propaganda, so that they could finance their constructions at megaloma. They also referred to the national interest when they built stadiums and allowed Hungarian hospitals to rot. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] But the situation has changed radically in a few days. He's changed radically. You know, gentlemen, there are millions of people in this country who are sitting at home unadvised and worried about their future, afraid of tomorrow, do not know what tomorrow and the day after they will feed their families, what will become bread on the table. They're worried about how to survive, how to survive this nightmare. Today, the national interest in Hungary is not what it has been. Today Hungary needs money, but the necessary amount of money from the Hungarian reserves, you know, cannot be raised. And foreign loans should not be taken out because once again the historical sin that some have committed [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Your allies, your friends!]] Hungary cannot be allowed to be trapped in a debt trap again. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You ran for election together! Don't you remember? Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Today, the national interest... calm down, gentlemen. Calm down! It's gonna get on your ass, and it's gonna be on your wallet. Today, it is in the national interest to put these assets accumulated in previous years into the service of the protection of Hungarian people and the recovery of the Hungarian national economy. Whether you like it or not, today it is in the national interest that those who have stolen now give. A lot of people were happy that you had ordered a moratorium on repayments, and we were happy about that. But I'm asking you, when you tax the banks, don't forget about the Fidesz bank and give it back to the ten million small depositors. This is what Hungary expects of you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-06-34	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Balázs Orbán will respond. [[14.20]]
u2020-04-06-35	Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, These were sad moments in the Hungarian Parliament, but I am trying to collect my thoughts. I remembered a story while listening to your speech. The story is as follows. A young couple move into the new house, and when a husband and wife have breakfast together, they look out the kitchen window and see that they are lying next door, and the neighbor's wife is laying bare. The wife starts smacking the neighbor to her husband to see, look at her, now the neighboring woman is laying bare, and how dirty the clothes are, it would require some soap. And then this scene repeats every day for weeks. One day, they're having breakfast together again, the neighbor lady's laying around again, the wife looks out, and she's surprised to find out how clean the clothes are, and what happened, someone taught the neighbor lady to wash properly? And the husband sighs and says that I got up very early today and cleaned our windows. [[Defiance and applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]] Honourable Congressman, The thing is, you guys need some serious window cleaning. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] They need heavy window cleaning. 'Cause they're talking nonsense, and I don't know how else to put it. In a two-minute response to the previous speech, the speech before the ministerial agenda, you have yet to talk about why we are not only spending HUF 2000 billion on defence and economic damage relief from the European Union. Congressman, please hire an expert. That source is not an additional source. There is no additional source coming from Brussels, because all the countries in the European Council should unanimously reschedule the current budget, and until this is done, there is no funding. So your proposal, which was presented here today, means exactly zero forints for the Hungarian families. What you're talking about is that the economic effects of the epidemic should be mitigated, specifically, zero forints. And I'm very pleased to hear you mention, by the way, how much support you're putting behind the eviction and repayment moratorium that the government ordered earlier. I respectfully inform you, Congressman, that, if that is the case, there are serious problems, because, given that you have not voted in favour of the Crown Virus Protection Act, the eviction and repayment moratorium would expire just this week, this very week. So, if this side of the Parliament had not provided the majority with the law on the protection of the Crown Virus, then the measure which you claim to support would have been repealed. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: That's right!]] So it is not only that if you were on the government, you would be able to put together a rescue package that means zero forints to the Hungarian budget, and you would not even be able to keep the protection measures in force. How can any responsibility be passed on to you, Congressman? ! I don't know, you were watching, because I saw that Congressman Oláh wasn't following the news, or that his speech had already been written before noon, and then after the noon announcement, it couldn't be modified, but I don't know if you were watching the news. The Prime Minister has now announced the second economic recovery package, the essence of which is to ensure that as few people as possible lose their jobs, so that we can maintain as many economic sectors as possible. And in this, there are also the measures that need to be taken to ensure that as few people as possible lose their jobs. The government is also involved in this, taking over a significant part of the employer's contributions from employers, and provides additional resources, including 20% of GDP, for the control of the epidemic and for the relief of economic impacts. So, if you are serious about all the political nonsense that has been said here that you want to restore the lives, security and the functioning of the Hungarian economy, then I have nothing else to say: clean your window and support the government's actions in this direction. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-36	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party, has applied for a pre-meeting address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-06-37	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Above a Japanese temple is an XIII. There is a century-old text that reads, "Let only those who are concerned with the questions of life and death enter here." Those who are not fully affected by this problem have no reason to cross this gate. There is no exaggeration that we now live in times when we are concerned with life and death in the strictest sense of the word. Therefore, we must heed the wise advice of Japan, especially here in the House of Parliament, and we must cross the gate with humility, ascension, and with seriousness appropriate to this situation. The Parliament, the Chamber, the common defence and the various life situations. However, those who are not fully affected by this problem have no reason to cross this gate. Tough but clear ancient wisdom, which is still relevant today. Honourable Parliament! Therefore, it is only time for sound cooperation, cooperation and joint action, not cynicism, lying and political exploitation. Dear House, The Christian world is preparing for its greatest celebration, the celebration of Easter. As the Eastern Christians today greet each other, Christ has been resurrected. He's really resurrected! This is the strength, maintenance and hope that we need to protect people and overcome the terrible disease and the economic crisis that accompanies it. But there's only one way to get through Easter, through suffering and testing. Easter leads through great Friday through the path of suffering, depth, pain and sadness, and perhaps weakness, helplessness, physical and spiritual collapse, and, yes, through the questions of life and death. The greatest holiday in the Christian world, Easter, just now, in 2020, tells us exactly that we must go through this path, that it cannot be saved, and that it cannot be missed. At the same time, the sacrifice, the responsibility and humility of the common path will lead us to Easter, victory, and unclouded joy. But the light of Easter also illuminates this path, the path that many people in Hungary have been walking in these weeks. My experience, and I trust that this is the experience of many of us that the overwhelming majority of Hungarian society is doing their job seriously and with responsibility, trying to comply with the provisions of the government, and most of them are there and helping as they can: in the front line or in the hinterland; in sharp situations or in the arming of each other; in the service of others or in the provision of the spiritual background; in organization and action; in self-control and humility, thanks to everyone for all this. They give the eternal example of endurance that one of Albert Camus's protagonists of his novel The Plague speaks of: staying, that is duty. In this special writing, Camus speaks of the fact that the destructive forces must be fought together by believers and unbelievers, i.e. there are situations in life where conflict is set aside, political, religious differences should be overcome, fought together. Hungarian society has set an example in this regard, and it is time for all politicians to follow this example. Dear Parliament, Hungarian society will walk the course of the week, but only if as many as possible can cross the certain symbolic gate from which the XIII. Japanese wisdom of the century spoke. [[14.30]] Easter, Christ's resurrection, gives human history and human life new meaning, writes Jürgen Moltmann, one of the most famous German theologians. Yes, now we feel on our own skin that Easter actually gives human history and fragile human life a new meaning. This is what we are asking everyone in the great week of 2020 to thank everyone who, at these serious historical moments, risking their lives. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They work for others. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-06-38	Thank you very much, Congressman. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-04-06-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Member, I believe, spoke here as a representative and a minister to all of us and to the entire Hungarian public. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] At the same time, today we can ask our fellow opposition Members the question of how we are here. What are you doing here? We have been hearing from us for two weeks now that there will be no parliament this week, and even until the elections, there may not be any elections in Hungary, and Parliamentarism has been completely eliminated in Hungary. For two weeks now, all they've been saying at home and abroad is that we're not going to meet here anymore, and that's what they've been doing to the international press, and they've been doing it for two weeks. They explained why they hadn't voted in favour of the Coronary Virus Act for the rapid adoption of epidemic measures, because they said that this was nothing but the elimination of parliament. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't lie!]] i.e. the elimination of legislation on the one hand and the elimination of parliamentary control on the other. For the past hour and a half, nothing will happen but parliamentary control by the opposition and in the next days, today and tomorrow and the next weeks; all that opposition politicians have said will not happen in the Hungarian Parliament. We have also seen that those to whom they have reached have made statements as representatives of various foreign ministries. They take a position on Hungarian laws and adopted laws without even looking for Hungary, what is the text of that legislation. Because it turned out that the states that protested against the law which, according to the opposition, had already abolished today's sitting, although we are all here in Parliament, these statements were made without Hungary, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, being contacted by other foreign ministers, we know this from Minister Szijjártó's statement this weekend, and they would have asked what was in this legislation. How is it possible that opposition politicians in Hungary are dealing with the fact that they are not informing those who they are in a party family, but are spreading false news about Hungarian legislation? And they leave with this, and in these politicians, in other allied NATO and EU allies with us, in a Foreign Ministry, there is not enough capacity to recognise the situation to ask Hungary what is really in this legislation, and then to form their opinions, how is it possible that party association and reservations or hatred against national governments are such that their own temperament is such that their reality vision is so obscured? Honourable Congressman, You yourself spoke of a shared burden, a burden, which is clearly necessary in the next period when we face the crisis. The largest commitment was made by the central budget itself, we expect the highest proportion to be 50 percent from the parties, and we expect more from both multinational companies and banks than municipalities. It is also clear that what opposition politicians call the looting of local governments can average around 1-2 percent of the municipal budget. It also shows that reality is not important to them, only to repeat their own false accusations. We have also heard today that opposition representatives are outraged that Parliament is continuing its legislative work. Those who have said two weeks ago that they will not vote in favour of voting in the accelerated procedure, nor will they vote in favour of the Crown Virus Act itself, because it means that the government wants to eliminate Parliamentary work, are now accusing us of the same idea that Parliament's work will continue, and legislation will come before Parliament, which is either in a closer relationship with the Crown Virus, or the same Members are required to operate the country. As I said, we needed the law to be able to move quickly, because Hungary was both by declaring an emergency and by taking other steps before other countries, so it does not seem to rise to the same extent in Hungary as in other countries. In the meantime, what do opposition representatives do? István Vácsó jokes about what the rate of illness or death will be for pensioners? On February 8th, Imre László, DK, says that hand sanitizer, mouth mask and everything else belong to the category of municipal obligation, and then two weeks later, he says that this is not an obligation of the municipality, but of the state? That Anna Donáth regrets that the first infected was not a Hungarian, but a foreign citizen? [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] And the opposition needs the former party presidents to have a mirror. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] hold when Gábor Vona and András Schiffer say that opposition parties made the wrong choice [[The president's ringing several times.]] And they were supposed to vote for the Crown Virus Act. This is the reality in Hungary, ladies and gentlemen of the House.
u2020-04-06-40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr János Halász, representative of Fidesz, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-06-41	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It's been almost four weeks since the government declared an emergency because of the coronal virus outbreak. We can recall that the first disease was registered on 4 March when the virus was detected in two Iranian students. A week later, the government announced the emergency very quickly and thoughtfully on 11 March. This was an important measure taken in time, as it contributed to increasing the number of infected people to a much slower and more manageable extent, rather than the number of thousands seen in Western Europe. The more disciplined we are, the more we can keep the epidemic going. In recent weeks, the government has taken a number of additional measures to slow down the epidemic, to protect the health of Hungarian people and to protect Hungarian families, the economy and jobs. We can remember that there were temporary tax exemptions for media services in Hungary, tourism and catering companies, and more than 81 thousand small businesses were exempted from the obligation to pay the kata-dairy tax until 30 June. We've suspended evictions, seizures and tax executions. We have extended the rights of children, children and children to the end of the emergency. Emergency measures have also been extended and a number of new regulations have been adopted. The Fidesz fraction welcomes the gross payment of HUF 500,000 for all health workers. They should be thanked for their sacrifice. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] Dear House, The government also made an important defensive decision by making public parking free throughout the country from now on. A regulation on this has already been issued. Unfortunately, even though we asked Gergely Christmas mayor of Budapest several times earlier, he did not want to hear about it. Instead, it has thinned BKV flights and this could endanger the health of passengers on crowded bus services. The government's decision to park free will help slow down the epidemic. Important decisions have also been taken on the fundamental re-alignment of the budget. The government has established the basis for the control of the epidemic, as well as the basis for economic protection and the re-launch of the economy. After that, the government started saving on its own and transferred a total of HUF 1345 billion from the wallets. In the case of the disease control fund, there is a common burden. This is where 50 percent of this year's party subsidies, the commercial tax on multinational chains, the contribution of the financial sector and the share of car taxation to municipalities should be paid. In this way, the protection fund for the epidemic provides HUF 663 billion for the measures. We find it amazing and shocking that the opposition is protesting against common burden and does not want to be part of the solution. We've heard them in Parliament today. They've just yelled at us, yelled at us, yelled at us. [[14.40]] This proves once again that they want to fight not the virus, but the government. [[Intruders from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] They bid on each other and distribute all the money in the world, and at the end of the line they would indebte Hungary, as they did before. The government has made it clear that it does not want to go on this path, it does not want to go back to the period of the aid-based economy, but it preserves Hungary's independence and the work-based economy. We will therefore need to create at least as many new jobs as will be lost as a result of the coronal virus epidemic; we need to restart the economy. The economic protection action plan announced today by the Prime Minister serves this purpose. In 2010, we have already shown that if we work together, we can achieve this. Let's do it now. The Fidesz fraction is also fully supporting the government. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-42	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will respond. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-04-06-43	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I'd like to respond to what's been a criticism, an accusation against the government, that he made decisions late at the time of the spread of the virus. I would like to say that the first economic protection decisions, family and business protection decisions were taken within seven days of the announcement of the emergency. I would like to say that in Europe, the Hungarian Government has said in a unique way that there is no need to comply with the obligation to pay capital and interest on loans by 31 December. It's up to everyone. This affects hundreds of thousands of transactions at business level and affects the level of individuals in millions of transactions. Everyone was given time to decide whether to take this opportunity or not. The first and most important message sent by the government on the seventh day after the announcement of the emergency is security. Safety, because in a situation where you don't know how to repay, what will happen to your job, what will happen to your income, you can decide, so that your family's obligation doesn't have to be repaid. Then it is very important that 300,000 people in crisis sectors, covering more than 15,000 businesses, do not have to pay social contributions taxes. In addition, nearly 100,000 people do not have to pay this particular kata and the beneficiary's tax. We can say that about 500 thousand businesses and employees have been affected by the government's first economic protection measure in terms of taxation and contributions. That's how it's built on each other, nicely, consciously and consistently. This is the next decision that the Prime Minister has announced today, the establishment of the economic security fund and five parts of it. The most important is the government's decision to protect jobs, the point of which is that the government is ready to take on a significant part of certain labour costs. It allocates HUF 450 billion for job creation, which will create investments and give new businesses a boost and opportunity. It is important that operating companies receive interest and guarantee subsidies for loans for corporate financing, which will amount to HUF 2000 billion. It is also a very important decision that, in order to protect families and pensioners, you will pay a 13th month pension as already mentioned, with a weekly pension payment every year, which will start in February 2021. The opposition, of course, minimizes this, but let us not forget that in 2008-2009, when the country was essentially in the same crisis, they did not give and raise pensions, but took pensions from people; they did not give public wage subsidies, but they ended jobs and sent hundreds of thousands of people to unemployment. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The details of this will be made public today and tomorrow, and we will obviously know much more, and we will see that this decision, announced by Prime Minister today at noon, will provide substantial help to Hungarian businesses, Hungarian families, will provide substantial help to hundreds of thousands of people or even millions. In terms of the size of the action plan, it reaches 18-22 percent of GDP, which, I think, will be sufficient for people, businesses and the economy in crisis to be helped by the government. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-44	Thank you, Mr András Tállai State Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would now like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present further speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-04-06-45	Dear Parliament, Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Zita Gurmai, MSZP; László Varju, DK; István Simicskó, KDNP.The following representatives applied for the speech before the agenda tomorrow: Bence Tordai, Dialogue; Antal Csárdi, LMP; Ágnes Vadai, DK; Lajos Korózs, MSZP; György László Lukács, Jobbik; Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP; Erik Bánki, Fidesz. For the speech following the agenda tomorrow, Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Jobbik; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; László Varga, MSZP. On Wednesday, Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP.
u2020-04-06-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that István Happy, Fidesz, Member of Parliament has received a motion to waive his immunity on 2 April 2020 by the KSB. 3590/2017/70. I'm on a case against the Attorney General. The KSB also received a motion to suspend the immunity of Gergely Kálló, Jobbik, Member of Parliament on 2 April 2020. 2493/2019/4. I'm also on a case against the Attorney General. The motions were issued to the immunity committee for examination by the Speaker of the House, and I inform you that the immunity committee is in the case of both Members H/10014. and H/10015. has submitted a proposal for a decision in figures. Thus, on the agenda, the issue of the suspension of immunity will be decided on today's sitting. Dear Parliament, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward in the power of the Speaker. Before the vote, we shall carry out a presence check to verify the functioning of the voting machines. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine, and if anyone senses that your machine is not working, please let me know. Now vote for the present. [[Vote.]] There are 162 Members present, 37 Members absent. Please, is everyone's button working? [[There's no signal.]] We don't have any contact. [[14.50]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. The Fidesz Group has initiated that decisions following the second reading debate be taken on this day at 15:50 instead of the 15.30 minutes originally indicated in the agenda proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the above motion to amend the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much, most visible. The Parliament has accepted the proposal. Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I'm asking you to accept this along with the amendment we just made. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of Parliament has accepted the amended agenda proposal. Dear Parliament, B/8988/2. I propose that the National Assembly ask the designated Judicial Committee to report on the activities of the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information in 2019, B/8988. for a decision to be taken on this proposal. I ask you, you agree with my suggestion. It's a button-pressed vote. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] The Parliament asked the designated committee to take its decision by 122 votes in favour, 39 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, I would like to announce that, since the factions have not made a motion for a replacement of committee members, we will not decide on any personal proposals. Dear Parliament, Now T/9677. A second-reading debate will take place. I call on Members who do not wish to take part in the debate to leave the Chamber in order to preserve the health of all of us in accordance with the Director-General's information. And I would also ask my fellow Members to remain in the Chamber during the debate solely for the next speaker and for the two subsequent speakers. The debate can be followed by everyone through the internal television mediation system, and the chair of the meeting will also help to comply with the above. Dear Parliament, We're taking a one-minute technical break. Please, anyone who does not take part in this debate, please step out into the hallway. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, It follows, therefore, that the 2019 CVII on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them follows. Discussion of the Commission's reports on the entry into force of the Act and of the Commission's report on its amendment for harmonisation purposes and of the summarised amendment proposal. The government referral is T/9677. is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to the rapporteur of the committee, Mr László Vécsey, within a 15-minute time frame.
u2020-04-06-47	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 2 April 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the 2019 CVII on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them. T/9677 on the amendment of Act T/9677 relating to the entry into force and for harmonisation purposes. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, not by vote, with 9 abstentions. Dear House, The bill before us sets two objectives. On the one hand, it aims to ensure the maximum degree of coherence in the legal system of the law on bodies with special status and the status of persons employed by them and, on the other hand, to increase the effectiveness of the procedure and enforcement of the Competition Authority through the amendment of the Act on the Prohibition of unfair market conduct and restriction of competition. Ladies and gentlemen, Amendments to the proposal of a legal nature are set out in Article 2 (2) of the cited Act. They concern special laws governing the regulation of bodies with special status listed in Section 2 of this Annex. The intention to amend is not only the Küt. they also seek to ensure the internal coherence of the law itself. All this is very important for the application of the law, as they facilitate their interpretation through clarification of the provisions of the law. The amendment of the rules governing competition law procedures is justified by the transposition into national law of Directive ECN + of the European Parliament and of the Council. The amendment will primarily clarify or extend the tools available to the NCA for more effective and, in our hope, more effective enforcement, as well as in the light of the provisions of the ECN + Directive. As a result of the transposition of the Directive, changes in domestic legislation are intended mainly to strengthen enforcement tools, but also to improve cooperation between undertakings subject to the procedure and the Competition Authority and the scope of legal assistance between competition authorities in the Member States. Dear Parliament, The bill on the House's table is equally consistent with ensuring the coherence of the domestic legal order and the fulfilment of our legal harmonisation obligations arising from our membership of the European Union, and in this way rightly count on the support votes of my fellow Members. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-06-48	[[A moment's pause.]] I'm sorry, but I disabled my own microphone, and I barely found it. Thank you very much, Congressman. The Secretary of State indicated that he would like to comment later on behalf of the rapporteur. No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. The speeches will now take place in the time frame on the agenda, which you will see on the display board. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik. [[15.00]]
u2020-04-06-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/9677. Legislative proposal No. 44 initiates amendments to Law No. 44. Indeed, most of the laws are technical amendments. However, there are two very important parts: one is the various parts of new people and organisations working in the public service with special status, which contain different remuneration, leave and all kinds of discounts; the other is the rather powerful and, in my view, not proposals for effective competition monitoring. In fact, with organisations with special status and public servants working with them, the government has created a public-service caste system, and we are slowly starting to be like India not only from a social point of view but also from a public-law point of view. [[Moore from the pro-government benches.]] I have to say that the kind of approach that gives organisations with special status and those with particularly senior positions a salary, freedom and other benefits to them creates a break in the public service system at a level that has already been created between the rich and the poor in society. I must say that when I read, for example, 20 days of supplementary leave with the number one leaders of many institutions and with the members of the governing board, it occurred to me that when someone sees the work as a passion and his passion is the profession he practices, I find it hard to imagine that he should have two and a half months of leave each year. It is quite surprising to me, considering the section of competition supervision, as I have already said in my speech at the lead speaker, that this kind of approach is that, depending on the resources of the Hungarian Competition Authority, it can set priorities in areas where it is proceeding, where it then establishes infringements, by ignoring all kinds of constitutional violations which are very rarely experienced within the framework of the rule of law. If the Hungarian government and even the European Union consider it true that in the European Union these opportunities have come up to adapt to their resources the fields of expertise that they can prioritise due to the challenges of a very rapidly changing global economy, but I think that, as I said in my speech, Hungary is a special place, in fact, a significant part of the Hungarian market is concentrated in the hands of a certain circle of businesses. I must say that, after the epidemic and every day we read the articles on this issue, there will be a level of capital concentration and in order to obtain the market for broken companies, with the acquisition of these products, the very strong, often monopolised companies, which still have tremendous reserves, will once again result in additional capital concentration where the Hungarian Competition Authority will have a great deal to do. What we have seen over the past ten years is that he has forgotten and received the reward for this task; he has become a constitutional judge, the leader of the economic competition office who presided for ten years, but I still hope that this area, the area of economic competition, can be redirected back to what was then established within the framework of the rule of law. Tptv is unacceptable to me. 55/E. §2 of the Act, which reads as follows: information that has been brought to the attention of the client may not be used in proceedings until the procedure has been completed. But, please, this is a cause for serious abuse that is unacceptable. The time limits may be laid down in the legislation in a competition supervision procedure, but the competition authority itself can easily extend them, take further evidence, obtain data, and be able to drag them away indefinitely, and those who, because of these violations, have been forced to sue for compensation, in fact, until this procedure is over, they are able to use the exact evidence in the lawsuits, and this is in fact frustrated by the legislator itself, so that they can effectively mitigate their infringements with compensation. A 64/A. §: evidence shall not be used in cases where it has been obtained by infringement. In this respect, I would like to respectfully ask the representative of the Ministry of Justice that this sentence is not missing from the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Civil Procedure. Because I'm already apologizing, but the evidence obtained by violation in order to find the material truth is used as conclusive evidence, especially in criminal proceedings. We know that within the framework of the rule of law, in the cradle of democracy, if evidence has been obtained illegally, it cannot be used in court proceedings for a hundred years, but in Hungary this is practically the case. If I were to say the main feature of the new competition authority system, which has been created with the entire amendment, even if the Ministry's position was to cisely in some way, to diversify the operation of this institution, I would say that the competition authority procedure will change specifically for the benefit of the infringers and specifically for those who have suffered the injury. I must say, in the beginning, I suggested to my political community, the faction, that we should abstain from this law, but both the caste system and the procedural amendments to the competition authority have led me to conclude that I did not recommend to the faction that we vote in favour of this law. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-04-06-50	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik.
u2020-04-06-51	Mr President, Dear House, When discussions about the Competition Authority and its rules of procedure are held, this occurs once a year in worse years in relation to the reports, we repeat the criticisms that have been coming back since 2010. I would now like to suggest two very short and contemporary events to the attention of the Secretary of State, which I still feel are lacking in both government communication and the legislative background that would otherwise allow this treatment. On the one hand, through the use of the names and photos of popular people in recent days, several companies, companies, wish to convince you of the antiviral effects of a product or service, it may be true that it is effective for consumers. I see that, in fact, these companies are not experiencing any counter-opinion on this issue, and I know that it does not necessarily belong to the amendment we are discussing here, but we still need a package on this issue, and this debate, this debate and the framework of the debate, might allow us to share this warning with you. The question of completely unknown, incredibly rapid healing, miraculous preparations is the same. We see, Mr State Secretary, that these must not be a political issue. Regardless of whether we belong to different parties, these questions should be dealt with immediately. We may not have time to drag a decision or bill through the system in 30 days and then take action. My request is, therefore, to strike this issue from a particular consumer protection approach, the profiteers, like the previous intentions, the speeches, in the spirit of which they belong, in my view, on the bench of the accused. Thank you for accepting this warning, well - meaning counsel. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-04-06-52	Thank you, Congressman. I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed. I give the floor to the author, Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. [[15.10]]
u2020-04-06-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I thank you for the fact that, as far as we could, we remained professional in the debate, in the bill, which has not always been simple in recent weeks, and has not always been seen. My colleague Andrea Varga-Damm had a few questions, such as in terms of freedoms. There's no change, there's the same freedom, it's just been broken down for basic and supplementary leave compared to the previous situation. If there were problems in this regard, Jobbik would have been able to submit proposals for amendments, and the committees would obviously have been able to discuss the needs in this regard. Secondly, the independence of bodies with special status must be guaranteed. Therefore, it cannot be allowed to suffer any disadvantages for the workers there, and the attractiveness of these organisations must be limited. Economic concentrations were also mentioned. If you think that we want to give Hungarian companies as much chance as possible, then obviously we need the right size. If you look at the former dominant companies, compared to Mol or OTP, I don't think there's ever been any concentration that would put the activities of the Hungarian Competition Authority into question. My fellow Member, Dániel Z. Karpát, suggested that antivirals have abuse. Thank God, we have the right legislation if such abuses take place. We have heard of criminal proceedings that have been launched in connection with the online fraud series. We'll draw attention to these. I hope, although it is not closely related to this issue, that we are not talking primarily about competition law issues, that there will be reassuring results in these too. Thank you again for your activity and for the support of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-54	Thank you, Secretary of State Völner. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, I'm going to take a break for 15 hours and 50 minutes. We will then continue our work with decisions. If you wish to leave the meeting room for the rest of the rest of your stay, do so in accordance with the information provided by the Director General. (Sunning: 15.12 15.53 President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: Dr. Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Szűcs)
u2020-04-06-55	I salute my fellow Members. Please take your seats, and I would also ask my fellow members of the Government to take their seats. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Dear Parliament, Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the voting buttons of your voting machine as soon as the inscriptions are displayed. Yes, now! I declare that the Parliament has a quorum, because 189 Members are present and 10 are absent. It follows now that the T/9467 on the publication of the Protocol to the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part, on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union is now under way. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9467/5. T/9467/6. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/9467/5. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly accepted the summary amendment by 186 yes, 2 votes against and without abstention. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9467/7. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 190 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. The LXVI of 1992 on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses for the purpose of indicating the place of origin follows now. Act T/9473 amending Act I of 2010 on the Registration Procedure Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. T/9473/6. T/9473/7. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/9473/6. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 188 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. It is now the final vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9473/8. A single proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the single proposal with 190 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Ladies and gentlemen, It is now up to the year 2019 CVII on special status bodies and the status of persons employed by them. T/9677 on the amendment of Act T/9677 relating to the entry into force and for harmonisation purposes. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. Before the decision is taken, I shall inform you that if, in the final vote, the Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority, the House Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure shall apply. According to paragraph 3 of Section 3, this decision also extends to the abandonment of the essentiality clause. T/9677/7. T/9766/8. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform the House that the House Rules of the Decision are 48. Under paragraph 2 of Section T/9677/7, the author is entitled "T/9677/7." A separate vote was initiated on point 21 of the consolidated amendment proposal No 21 and points 41, 43, 45 and 52 of the substantive proposal. First, we decide on the points requested for a separate vote and then on the part of the summarised amendment that requires a qualified majority. We will then decide on further points in the summary amendment proposal. First, we decide on the adoption of point 21, which requires a simple majority, which is requested for a separate vote. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9677/7. Point 21 of the consolidated amendment proposal, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament did not accept point 21 of the summary amendment proposal for a separate vote with 4 yes, 172 no votes and 14 abstentions. We now decide on the adoption of points 41, 43, 45 and 52, which require a simple majority, to be voted on separately. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9677/7. Point 41, 43, 45 and 52 of the amendment, which requires a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament has adopted the points which have been asked for a separate vote on the draft amendment, 137 yes, 41 with no votes and 13 abstentions. [[16.00]] We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 37 and 57, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9677/7. Point 37 and 57 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 138 votes in favour, 39 against and 12 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9677/7. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points requiring a simple majority of the summary amendment by 135 votes in favour, 39 against and 16 abstentions. In view, ladies and gentlemen, of the fact that Parliament has not just adopted all the points of the summarised amendment, we will decide, in the final vote, on the text of the bill which has been amended by the agreed points of the summarised amendment. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law defines the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9677. The provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a qualified majority by 134 votes in favour, 36 against and 21 abstentions. We now decide on the parts of the amended bill that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9677. The provisions of the amended bill, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the amended bill requiring a simple majority by 134 votes in favour, 35 against and 21 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for immunity decisions. I would like to inform you that there has been a motion for the waiver of the immunity of MP István Happy, the KSB on the 2nd of April 2020. 3590/2017/70. I'm on a case against the Attorney General. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee on Exemptions, who will give the committee his or her reasons orally within a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2020-04-06-56	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In the transcript of the Attorney General's transcript, he contacted the Speaker of Parliament and gave him the transcript of the immunity committee. In this case, the Attorney General requests the suspension of his immunity against Mr Happy, because of the crime of bribery, of the acceptance of bribery and of the offence of a restrictive agreement in public procurement. According to the facts, from 2015 onwards, regional operational programmes... as a reminder: county authorities have a significant role to play in the assessment of such programmes. In order to influence them, in the case of one municipality, the Member took part in the successful promotion of three applications, according to the opinion of the Attorney General, and in these proceedings he also influenced public procurement procedures and adopted an advantage together with his fellows. The set of acts is based on wiretaps, witness statements and other procedural acts. The committee has kept to the practice it has always followed: it has stated that it is a public prosecutor's proceeding and has therefore unanimously decided to propose the suspension of immunity in the case in question. This was also requested in writing by Mr Happy Member of the immunity committee. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-04-06-57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask Mr István Happy, if he would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would like to remind you that the immunity committee has taken a position that the congressman's immunity will be suspended by the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend the immunity of the MP István Happy. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament suspended the immunity of MEP István Happy by 186 votes in favour, without voting against and without abstention. Now it's time for Gergely Kálló's parliamentary immunity case to be decided. I would like to inform you that there has been a motion to suspend Mr Gergely Kálló's immunity on the day of April 2, 2020 by the KSB. 2493/2019/4. I'm on a case against the Attorney General. The Speaker of Parliament has issued this to the immunity committee for examination. The Parliament shall decide on this without debate. Before taking a decision, I will give the floor to Mr János Harghitai, Chairman of the Committee on Exemptions, who will also give oral reasons for the committee's proposal within a five-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. President. You have the floor.
u2020-04-06-58	Mr. President. Dear Parliament, In the transcript of the attorney general's transcript, he asked the congressman to waive his immunity for a misdemeanor. Among the facts, before the elections to the European Parliament, Gergely Kálló, together with his three associates, has been appointed by the Committee of the Regions. 1 and XII in the district, he destroyed the posters of Fidesz and KDNP, in 18 cases a billboard, in eight cases a billboard. This is also a public case, so the immunity committee unanimously motiones the Parliament to suspend the Member's immunity in the case in question. [[16.10]]
u2020-04-06-59	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Gergely Kálló to take the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-04-06-60	Well... [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Dear House, Mr President, Dearest István Happy My fellow accomplice! It is my pleasure that, at such a time of distress, in such an emergency protocol, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office works so quickly. The suspension of the immunity of György Simonka took months to wait, the suspension of the immunity of István Happy had to wait months, and it was enough for me three weeks. That's what I wish for. That's how fast I wish to the DA's office on my weekdays. What did I do? If I want to answer briefly, nothing. Nothing in the world, at least not a crime, as far as you're concerned. I spent the last few days looking for police reports from 2018, from the time you destroyed Jobbik's posters for hundreds of thousands. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: That's right! Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right! They destroyed all my posters on Friday!]] I've collected dozens of charges, and you know what these dozens of charges have in common? One sentence: since the act is not a crime, the procedure is terminated. This right has been granted by you, you have legalized the message through posters. But you don't have to leave until 2018. You know, at the beginning of the year, there was an election in February where I beat up your candidate a little bit. Not a little bit. [[Intercoms from Jobbik: Very! Applause for the opposition.]] All my A0 posters were damaged by people in the middle of the night. As a law-abiding citizen, I went to the police, I wanted to press charges, but they told me not to exercise this right, because there will be no procedure, because this is within the category of free expression and political expression that you have given us. It's just my right. This weekend, I asked my fellow parties, my fellow factions, to vote to suspend my immunity. I'd like to say two things, because that's what I'm asking of you. One: I request the same legal procedure that was provided to the activists of Fidelitas and Fidesz in 2018. One. I'd like to remember one more thing. If I'm convicted, we'll re-enact these dozens of charges, but be careful, because they won't have any activists in 2022, because they'll all go to the police. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Applause for the opposition. A statement from Jobbik: There is money!]] Finally, fellow Members, look at me. I'm a very small man, I won't cast a shadow on the cause of István Happy. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] My case doesn't do you any favors for István Happy's cause to disappear, to hide theft of $1,300 million. I'll remain a servant of my district. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-06-61	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I would remind you that the committee has taken a position to suspend the immunity of the congressman from the Parliament. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the suspension of immunity requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to suspend Mr Gergely Kálló's immunity. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament suspended the immunity of Gergely Kálló with 170 votes in favour, 13 against and without abstentions. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the decisions, and I'm going to order a two-minute break. With all due respect, I would like to ask you to leave the Chamber in accordance with the rules of the Director-General, which have been issued earlier, in order to ensure the protection of everyone's health. [[Several Members are leaving the Chamber. It's a short break.]] I would ask my fellow Members to take their seats so that we can begin the hour of immediate questioning. [[Dr. István Simicskó and Sándor Szabó take their place as notaries.]] [[16.20]] Dear Parliament, Mr.Péter Jakab, leader of the Group of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Mr. Prime Minister? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Gergely Gulyás granted the Minister who led the Prime Minister's Office a right to reply. I respectfully ask Mr. Group leader whether he will accept the person of the responding party or wait for the Prime Minister to ask the question in person.
u2020-04-06-62	Thank you for the opportunity. I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2020-04-06-63	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question. It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, he appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond. I respectfully ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Minister for his answer in person.
u2020-04-06-64	I'd like to wait for Minister Kasler. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-06-65	Thank you very much, Congressman. Congressman Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I respectfully ask the Member, accept the person who is responding, or ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-04-06-66	I accept, Mr. President.
u2020-04-06-67	Thank you very much. Congressman Róbert Hondas has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Allow me, on the package you have announced today, to highlight the section concerning the local government and try to highlight it as the former mayor. Believe me, as a former mayor, I know that every forint in the budget has a place. Each forint has a place, as this is how the municipalities can perform their mandatory tasks. Weeks ago, however, almost four weeks ago, an unexpected turn came, an emergency that led the municipalities to specific tasks, because without state aid, the municipalities had to organise the defence on the spot. They did: they organized, established, disinfected public spaces, acquired protective equipment, masks, protective clothing, and there were small settlements where they used to sew gloves and masks, secure their protection, and ensure their protection. Therefore, the municipalities did not ask for anything. At the same time, they were right to expect the state to finance it in some way, sooner or later. Then came today's announcement, or your announcement on Saturday, and, as it turns out, the municipalities were struck by lightning, not only by not receiving the funds they have invested so far, but rather by taking away from them. Minister, we are asking you, and even demanding that the government withdraw the part concerning the municipalities. If they do not do so, the municipal system may collapse, the defence that the municipalities have done properly for weeks without government assistance could collapse. But in addition to defense, it is a major threat to the social system. We suggest, as you mentioned in Roman law today's afternoon, that we share a burden, involve those who have been the winners of the last ten years, who have been rich in the state and EU billions of the last ten years, in this joint burden.
u2020-04-06-69	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-04-06-70	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Even in my speech before the agenda, I had the opportunity to mention the amounts made to the disease control fund and, in this connection, the municipal contribution that we are also looking forward to in the context of the fight against the epidemic. I would like to point out that the protection against the epidemic is, of course, and I think that there is agreement in this House that is governed by the government, that most expenditure is covered by the government, that is incomparably more than any local authority, that is correct; and that there is no doubt that the loss of revenue affects the state register, the state budget, to the greatest extent. So if you accept that the sharing of damage was necessary, lex Rhodia was in common danger of the liability of everyone for losing the ship's cargo in Roman law, if you accept this principle, on which the right to compensation rests to this day, then I do not understand the criticism of why the municipalities would not have to contribute to this. I would also like to add that the 2-3-4 percent withdrawal in total is perhaps between 3 and 4 percent, but if you look at the own revenue, not only the revenues provided by the State, then there is less contribution that we expect from the municipalities, much less than the revenue loss of the Hungarian State. So what I can tell you is that if someone is concerned about the situation and doesn't want to pursue party politics, they're not making those demands. Be kind to note that, interestingly, opposition mayors feel inadequate to resolve the situation; where the mayor is independent or pro-government, they are not happy either, just as we are not happy about the situation that has arisen, but they are still understanding the government's decision and looking for a solution. That is what we would like to ask the opposition mayors. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-71	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Róbert Dudás. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, You know, what you're saying is weird and what you're doing, because in recent years the government press and the government propaganda have been raving about it, full of the fact that Hungary is doing better, Hungary is not only Europe, it is slowly ahead of the world's economy, so much so that we, from Vietnam through Kosovo, through Kenya, have sent state billions to Mexico everywhere, because Hungary is doing so well. Then it turned out that it was not, since the register was empty, it had to be withdrawn; it had to be withdrawn from those who were otherwise actively involved. The Prime Minister said today that we are writing a 26-day emergency today. These municipalities have been defending themselves for 26 days. Minister, please don't punish those who are otherwise involved in this defence, and I ask you, in addition to involving the winners of the last ten years, do not insult the municipalities, but rather help them. The municipalities don't ask for ten pennies more than what is necessary for their work, but they ask with great respect.
u2020-04-06-73	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-04-06-74	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Congressman, The loan should not be confused with the donation; you talked about a bond-aid loan scheme, it must be repaid, Hungary has done business everywhere in the world with it, which has nothing to do with the fact that there is an epidemic threat, it exists all over the world, and the countries that are poorer and richer in the world face the recession that will be instead of the expected growth of 1-5 percent. So it is not the success of the last 9 or 10 years that they have to speak differently, they have to look at the data for themselves, but we have to see that this year there will be a serious loss of revenue for the government, and there will be serious expenditure for the budget that we absolutely need to devote to defence. We have only paid HUF 380 billion to buy protective equipment so far. Compared to this, the contribution of HUF 34 billion from the municipalities is unpleasant, obviously no one is happy about it, but it is fully understandable and part of the common burden. My request is not to create political hysteria in this case. I do not think that all opposition mayors are necessarily more inadequate than pro-government or independent mayors, so please be nice to handle the situation as the government is handling it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-75	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, With all due respect, I'd like you all to sit out of a seat. I now give the floor to Congressman Attila Mesterházy, the representative of the MSZP, who wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "The Rebuilding of the Economy." Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás appointed a minister leading the Prime Minister's Office to respond. I ask Congressman Attila Mesterházy to accept the person who is responding, or to wait for the Prime Minister to give a personal answer.
u2020-04-06-76	Thank you very much, Mr. President, I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you.
u2020-04-06-77	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. How should older people be protected if caregivers are not protected by the government? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I respectfully ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2020-04-06-78	I'll take it.
u2020-04-06-79	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai has the floor. Here you go. [[16.30]]
u2020-04-06-80	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I am pleased to see that the government has taken one of the proposals of the MSZP [[Defiance, an uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Healthcare workers receive HUF 500,000 in support. I hope there won't be any tricks in this, and everyone who works in this sector will get this money. The fact that Hungary has not yet collapsed under the threat of the epidemic is due to them, the people working in health care. I therefore suggest that Parliament should applaud your work, too, Minister. Thank you very much. However, there is another employment group, some 100,000 people, who owe a great deal to us: those working in the social sector, 80% of whom are women. It is thanks to them today that the elderly, needy citizens of Hungary are receiving care despite the curfew. And then I ask, what about them? These people have done their job in the last few weeks without proper protective equipment, because this is their profession, their conscience dictates that they cannot abandon anyone. They don't even have protective equipment, because you're spending your precious time with the kicker or the Turk Council or whatever, instead of supplying everyone with protective equipment. You must think the protective mask is soft under the saddle. So we suggest that you think about those working in the social sector, too, and that they receive a one-time grant of HUF 500,000, just like those working in the health care sector. This means about HUF 50 billion in expenditure, with roughly 100,000 employees. I'm sure this source is available. There are, for example, 50 billion of the World Hunting Exhibition, and obviously there will be no such event, at most, Deputy Prime Minister Semyen will drop some more protected animals, but unfortunately it is only a disgrace to the world, not an exhibition. So I ask Minister: are you planning to help those working in the social sector in the form of a one-time allowance of HUF 500,000? Thank you very much, Minister.
u2020-04-06-81	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-04-06-82	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The work of those working in the social sector is highly appreciated by the government, and it is also evident that in the current epidemic situation they are burdened much more than ever in previous years. However, the government decided, in my view, correctly that, until 1 January 2020, a total wage increase of 14 per cent will be made, together with the increase in the guaranteed minimum wage this year, which concerns the sector. This represents a total of 14 per cent by increasing the amount of the social sector bonus and by increasing the guaranteed minimum wage. This means that, of course, even today, workers in social care do not live as they should live; they do not receive the income they would be entitled to on the basis of their work, there is no debate between us, but if we look at the rise that has taken place in recent years, this is at least a significant and much more spectacular result than that achieved by our predecessors at any time since the regime changed. As far as the social sector is concerned, the chief national officer has made countless decisions in recent weeks that guarantee their safety and working conditions in the epidemic situation. Such is the visit ban imposed on 8 March, which covered not only hospitals, but all inpatient and residential institutions of Hungary providing social services. We have imposed a ban on visits, which applies to social institutions providing specialized care, to temporary homes for families in the framework of basic child welfare care, to temporary homes for children, and to institutions providing child protection services, and even to correctional institutions. They are obviously affected by the curfew and are also subject to curfew or curfew in the same institutions. And I will be sharing the rest with the congresswoman in the next minute. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-83	Thank you very much, Minister. Congresswoman Zita Gurmai is entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-06-84	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I understand that you prefer the sight of a uniformed soldier to a caretaker who helps the elderly without a protective mask. [[Intruder from the pro-government line, how can you say such things?]] Honestly, I was a kid, and I liked the marching and the short-spoken command, so I suggest you give the short-spoken order: 50 billion for the social sector. [[Interjection from the pro-government ranks: It was supposed to be ten years ago!]] I think it's gonna look good on Facebook. Thank you.
u2020-04-06-85	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Minister. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-86	Thank you. Dear Congresswoman, In order not to pursue what I would have done in my intention, but to respond in substance to your rejoinder, I do not consider it fortunate, in a crisis, to confront law enforcement workers, health workers or those working in the social sector. There is an incredible need in the current situation for the police to contribute effectively to border protection. All parties agreed here in Parliament when we ordered a complete border closure. There is no doubt that the role of the police and the military is particularly important in ensuring public order. In the same way, there is no doubt that the work of workers in the social sector and in the health sector is also essential. So I do not think that these sectors should be confronted in any way, that everyone's work should be valued. For this reason, on behalf of the government, I can only thank all those who, even in an epidemic situation in these sectors, work victimlessly, in addition to the dangers far greater than before, every day. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-87	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Anett Bősz, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. How does the government help care for the elderly and those in need during the epidemic? Ma'am, I'm sorry, ma'am. I'm sorry, ma'am. Since Minister is not present, Mr. Tibor Pogácsás has appointed Secretary of State for his absence, he accepts the person of the respondents. [[Anett: Thank you, I accept.]] Congresswoman indicates that she accepts the response, and Mrs Anett Bősz has the floor. Here you go. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2020-04-06-88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The responsibilities and responsibilities of the municipalities increased during the epidemic. Our quarantined elderly compatriots are to be cared for by local leadership. Even if the amount of shopping is not charged to their account, this may vary. The government has adjusted this year's pension increases to 2.8 percent inflation, but prices have already increased faster in the first two months of the year. Foods increased well over 7 percent in the first quarter, and the crisis resulting from the epidemic is expected to continue to drive prices upward. As a result, pensions will need much less food. DK has therefore proposed a one-off supplement to the low-income pensions, except that the municipalities will have no choice but to take part in the purchases. This could happen very soon. With liberals, we proposed to redistribute 1% of the unsponsored tax to mitigate the effects of the epidemic, which could also be a solution for providing financial assistance to local authorities. The economic crisis reduces local tax revenues. The number of households in need of social assistance will increase in proportion to the rise in unemployment and the growth of corporate bankruptcies. For this reason, we are looking at a large decline in revenue in the local government budget and a simultaneous high increase in expenditure. So I respectfully ask the Secretary of State: how does the government help care for the elderly and those in need during the epidemic? What amount of money do you plan to allocate to municipalities so that they can help all the needy and old people? Thank you very much.
u2020-04-06-89	Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The Hungarian Government considers the health and health of Hungarian people a national issue. No one is alone, and no one can be left alone, and we count on people, just like people can count on us. We pay particular attention to the situation of older people and pensioners, in order to ensure their health, given that this social class is at the greatest risk in the current epidemic. We have taken a number of measures to protect the elderly. Those who are in their own homes or who receive some kind of state help in their homes and those who are in some institution need special attention. Information on this has been provided in different ways over the last few weeks and days. There is a visitation ban not only in hospitals, but also in social institutions. We've launched a wide-ranging campaign to raise awareness and help. [[16.40]] During the transition to digital education, we specifically drew everyone's attention not to the children, not to the grandparents, not to the elderly. In the Hungarian Gazette, a regulation has been published that allows you to call the general doctor on the phone, do their crafty and difficult business on the phone, make their prescriptions digitally, and can be replaced by acquaintances and neighbors. Proof of entitlement to public health care is extended. Local governments have been obliged to organise and provide care for the elderly who remain in their homes. We have set a time limit in order to protect the elderly in order to make unscheduled purchases. We have agreed with local government associations, local governments, and we have agreed that the protection of the elderly should be ensured by the municipalities and the government together. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-06-91	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the congresswoman the floor in return, please.
u2020-04-06-92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, I think we have little understanding of each other. I am talking about the fact that pensioners because of the runaway food prices and the previously expected rate of inflation that you have adjusted the rise in pensions will not come out of their money, so it is in vain that they will receive assistance from the local authorities if they cannot significantly increase their resources, and it can be seen that local leaders are now expecting revenue losses rather than an increase in resources either in the care of the elderly or in the care of those in need. I'm concerned about these processes, and I'm not at all reassured by what you're saying. Care means much more than telling the government or the municipalities that it has a shared responsibility. We should see the amounts from which local authorities can farm. Government and opposition are no match for this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] It is our shared responsibility to care for the elderly and those in need. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2020-04-06-93	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The Secretary of State is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-04-06-94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The municipalities have the necessary budgetary support to carry out social tasks. These budgetary resources are at their disposal and it is also possible for municipalities for which the budgetary resources are not sufficient to submit specific aid applications specifically for the performance of social tasks. At the same time, it must be said that in the case of municipalities it has been built, especially in small settlements, the service of village caregivers and teachers, which can serve and provide excellent services in this case as well. It is part of the fact that social catering is covered by the normative of the local authorities in the catering sector, as this is the norm despite the fact that the need for food has been significantly reduced, it will not be withdrawn, and the municipalities will be able to carry out the tasks that they have to carry out. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-06-95	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-04-06-96	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-06-97	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What should be done in health care? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, he appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding. [[Hohn Krisztina nodds.]] You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-06-98	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to begin with a quote: In the course of today, make sure that all patients of your institution, the supplier, receive the notification that the 2020-2020 programme is in place. CHAPTER III From 16 onwards, health care plans will only be carried out if they are carried out as a result of an urgent need, in order to avoid life-threatening or long-term harm to health. This is a quote from the letter received by healthcare providers from EMMI. This meant that most of the outpatient care and inpatient care were also stopped. The decision is likely to be justified by slowing down the spread of the epidemic and protecting workers in the institutions, as the virus is easier to spread among those waiting for treatment. However, this measure causes difficulties in patient care, as non-emergency patients do not get to specialist care in time. Consider, in particular, newly discovered or suspected cancer, cardiovascular disease or new immune disease, but some gastroenterological cases or neurological diseases may also be included. Time is a very important factor in these cases. The fact that a disease does not require immediate care or emergency care does not mean that the treatment can be delayed for an uncertain period of time. After all, not all diseases can be corrected only in general health care; and it should be noted here that according to a January estimate, hundreds of general practitioners are missing from the system, and the average age of GPs is also high. My question is: what does the government intend to do to reacquire specialised care in hospitals for non-emergency but hospitalized patients?
u2020-04-06-99	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári, please.
u2020-04-06-100	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, There really was a circular like that. The purpose of this, as you have dominated it, is that, as in every other country, if we look at the spread of the epidemic, sooner or later there will be a time when, to a very large extent, a very large number of people will start entering hospitals. That's what we're preparing for, so we're preparing hospitals for it. Obviously, there are several management plans. On the one hand, there is a need for free beds in hospitals, both in infectious departments and in intensive care; beds with an sleeping machine are needed in the intensive care unit, and those who can provide these caregivers, doctors, are also on standby, and they know that when the time comes, when the number of patients is greatly increased, and those who are elderly or chronically ill, need some kind of ventilation, as we see in Italy, Spain, everywhere else, they should have the capacity to do so. For this reason, we have asked hospitals to push the interventions that can be pushed later; for which urgent intervention and continuous treatment require urgent intervention, of course, it is still happening in hospitals today. If you go to the hospitals, you'll see that these procedures are taking place. At the same time, much of the capacity needs to be prepared to receive patients with coronal viruses there, but that does not mean that if someone needs any care now and really needs it now, at this moment, they would not be able to provide it in hospitals. Paramedics will deliver him, as they always will, to the hospital, as always, who needs treatments for cancer, all of them will, so there's no reason for the coronal virus not to do the necessary intervention. However, what can be planned surgery, which can be done two months later, but it is important to free beds in hospitals across the country in the order of tens of thousands, in the event of a very large number of patients being admitted, as it is very fast. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the course of these diseases. Italian videos show that there is even a noticeable deterioration in the health of elderly people in hours. [[The president's ringing again.]] There is a need for free beds. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-06-101	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'll give the congresswoman the floor in return, please.
u2020-04-06-102	Thank you. In the opinion of several doctors working in care, these specialties, not the surgeries, are considered, but specialized clinics where, for example, cancer patients can be sent or Cardiovascular patients can be further examined, perhaps they could be arranged in rural hospitals; I am now from Baranya County, whether in Komló, Mohács. It is thought that the risk of infection may be reduced by the use of filter tents and adequate distance, appointments, and other safety measures. It is a serious concern if the patient is unable to take medical care or hospitalization in time again, I do not think of a sudden biliary spasm and do not take out the bile stone because I know it is removed, but it is something that weakens the immune system, and in this case there is a concern that the weakened immune system may be more difficult to handle even in the case of a coronal virus epidemic. My question is that this briefly mentioned proposal may be considered by the government. Thank you.
u2020-04-06-103	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2020-04-06-104	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I would warn against precisely determining what we are here in Parliament or anywhere in the government, what are the specific cases when care is needed, and what can be postponed. That's exactly what the doctor, the hospital, the medical facility can decide, the doctors can talk to each other. But it's in everyone's best interest, because, obviously, at a time like this, everyone who goes to the hospital, has any intervention, if it's not urgent, health-protecting or life-saving, then everyone thinks that if it's a delayed surgery, it's safer for them, if they don't weaken their immune system in the hospital when there's a coronal virus epidemic, but they'd feel safer outside the epidemic period, in the event that this is a procrastination, a delayed surgery. [[16.50]] So the necessary treatments, the necessary surgeries, the necessary interventions will take place. What is necessary and what is deferred is not a political, not a parliamentary question, but a medical question, which is always decided by the treating doctors. But, of course, we have continued to maintain this possibility, both legal and financing opportunities, and hospitals, by the way, are taking advantage of this opportunity every day. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-105	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sándor Burány, Dialogue Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. The Prime Minister has given the Prime Minister the right to reply because of the urgent public task of Gergely Gulyás, the Prime Minister's head of the Prime Minister's Office. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Sándor Burány: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-06-106	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Minister, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán announced here in this House a week ago that he wants to create at least as many new jobs after the crisis with the help of a grandiose programme as many jobs are lost due to the crisis. The economic protection action plan announced today is based on this concept, if not all the details are still clear. While I do not dispute the good intentions of this concept, allow me, Minister, to say that we consider the basic concept to be flawed. We regard it as a failure because, in the present situation, it is much more important to preserve the jobs that are still in place than to create new jobs for them in the distant future. Allow me, Minister, to mention only a few proposals on the part of politicians, professional organisations, who have been in public in recent weeks, due to a lack of time. 1. What many countries in Europe have escaped, namely that at least 80 percent of workers' salaries from firms in distress are taken over by the state; not some percentage of part-time work is not yet defined, but 80 percent of wages are taken over by the state. 2. The unemployment benefit should be increased to at least HUF 100,000 and its duration should be increased from the present three months to nine months; otherwise, as it was before your administration. 3. In the case of those losing their income due to the crisis, the basic income of the crisis must be introduced at a rate of HUF 100,000. Much more proposals would, of course, be needed in the hour of immediate questions and answers, so allow me to focus on these three perhaps most important ones, because today's jobs must be preserved, current incomes must be replaced, income lost. With all due respect, the government is willing to move in this direction. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-04-06-107	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-108	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I can reply briefly to the question that it is partly yes, and the measures announced are also partly in this direction, where the Government agrees with what Mr President has said. This is not the case in all areas, because I understand the reference to the previous period, but the Member knows it as well as I do, or, given his policy skills, he knows better than I that there has never been so low unemployment and so many workers in Hungary than in 2019-2020. And the growth that we have achieved is due to the fact that we have made it clear that we are trying to help everyone, we want everyone to have a job, but we want to pay wages for work. Basic income is a completely wrong idea, an idea with tragic consequences that would put an end to the morale that has led people to work if possible in recent years. So we disagree here. I fully agree that where jobs can be preserved, it is much easier to preserve these jobs than to create new ones. This is part of the programme to be presented in detail tomorrow. The transfer of wages, Kurzarbei, will also be taken over by the Hungarian practice. So in this sense, we agree with the idea, where there is a chance of preserving jobs, that is important and necessary. However, I would also like to add that there are sectors that have virtually stopped. So in tourism, for example, it doesn't matter that if the government doesn't pay the wages and contributions in full, many will still be dismissed there. I think the goal here is that today there is a three-month unemployment benefit, and for a longer period of time, no one should be forced to leave work. The government is therefore working to ensure that this period is as short as possible. We do not see how long the crisis is going to be today, we do not know how long the disease control will take, if it is necessary to take further decisions, we are ready to do so, but now I can only say that the government is committed to keeping jobs where we can, and where jobs disappear, to creating the same amount. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-109	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány in return.
u2020-04-06-110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I hope I have less criticism of the ideas that have come to light next week. I would like to say that the measures, the perception that is sufficient in peacetime, are simply few. Survival is now the most important thing in the strict, physical and social sense of the word. In hospitals, patients' survival must be fought for, and in the social sphere and in the preservation of jobs, the social acquis that remains to be fought for. It is not enough to create hope for people in six months if they lose their jobs now if they lose their income now. With all due respect, many countries in the world have begun to think in this direction. I propose that the Hungarian Government should also start thinking in this direction. The crisis has completely rewritten all scenarios. People who are now losing their jobs can't work the day after tomorrow because they don't want to, but because they don't have a place. Thank you.
u2020-04-06-111	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-04-06-112	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, What I can say is that, of course, we are watching, where in Europe and in the world, what measures are being taken. You will find countless versions of this in detail in the plan to be presented tomorrow by Minister Palkovic. Nevertheless, we do not want to copy exactly any country's crisis management. This is not what we did in 2010-2011-2012. And let's remember what kind of arguments we had at the time. We can say that after that, the fiscal balance was restored, and the seven or eight years after that, Hungary had the most successful seven or eight years after the change of regime. The figures in the Hungarian economy confirm that this is absolutely true. With regard to social care, I can say that it is a pity to open the debate that three months are long, few or perhaps enough, because we do not know how long the crisis itself will last. I think it's worth assuming that the person who's worked so far would be happy if he didn't live on welfare, but had a job. We do not know how long the crisis will last, but there is hope that in three months' time the economy will be back on track, and everyone who has lost their job can get to work. The government will appreciate the situation, if necessary, take other decisions, but I hope that if it learns about the details of the economic programme to be presented tomorrow, it will see the government's actions with greater recognition. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-113	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question:. What does the government do to protect border jobs? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-04-06-114	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, It is not a question that the first task now is to slow down the spread of the coronal virus epidemic, to provide the necessary means to do so, and to ensure that they are available. To this end, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has established an air bridge with the activation of several countries, which works very well. Similarly, bringing home and helping Hungarian citizens who are stranded outside is an important task to be able to get home. It's going through a lot of steam. I would especially like to thank you for bringing home Hungarian citizens from my constituency, Pilisjászfalu, Pilisszentiván, Budakeszi, and for helping them in Egypt, Peru and Indonesia. [[17.00]] Another fundamental task is to ensure the supply of Hungarian people and to make international freight traffic as smooth as possible. But not only must the transport of goods be guaranteed, but also that as few jobs as possible fall victim to the corona virus, as has been mentioned here before. Many Hungarians work in foreign jobs along the border and are citizens of neighbouring countries and workers in Hungary, so it is very important that workers are able to cross the border. The question would be, what are the border sections where it works best and what are the areas where it needs to be improved. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-06-115	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-04-06-116	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, Almost all countries in Europe have introduced serious restrictions on their own borders as a means of protecting against world epidemics. Some countries now do not allow their own nationals to enter the border crossing points on land. As regards Hungary, we apply the rule that only Hungarian citizens can enter Hungary at land border crossing points for the purpose of Hungarian traffic, and so do many neighbouring countries. However, it is clear that these absolutely legitimate measures should not prejudice the maintenance of a close relationship between border communities, and we must also resolve the issue, including the issue of allowing communities living along the border to cross each other. Anyone who has a job on the other side of the border can go to work; who has land on the other side of the border can go over there and cultivate it. Here's what I can report to you. For Croatia, all seven border crossing points are open and all open to local border traffic. With regard to Slovakia, I can tell you that there are ten border crossing points now open. Last time we were able to open the border crossing points in Balassagyarmat and Somoskőújfalu, partly before local border traffic and partly before freight traffic. For Romania, nine out of twenty-one border crossing points are open. Last time we were able to agree to open three new border crossing points, specifically in order to start the local border traffic. Accordingly, the crossroads of shoulderhai, life support, and bee wheels were opened. Serbia has made strict decisions, and there is no possibility of local border traffic at the moment. As regards Slovenia, we have recently reached an agreement on the opening of two crossing points in Bajansenye and two valleys, so that Hungarian and Slovenian citizens can now cross five crossing points. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-06-117	Thank you very much, Minister. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán for a rejoinder.
u2020-04-06-118	Thank you very much, Minister. I wish that more such gateways could be established, whether in Hungarian-Ukrainian terms or towards Transcarpathian Hungarian territories and Transcarpathia. And I would particularly like to thank you for the air bridge mentioned earlier, and for the effort that the State Department is making to acquire assets. And here, let me refer back a few minutes ago to our fellow Member from Gurma: I felt a little distasteful about this exploding, because now, beyond the help of the Turk Council, the helping hand is a little smacked aside, we are minimizing the effort that is manifested in over 10 million masks and hundreds of thousands of protective clothing, which the Foreign Affairs Service, the KG attache outside and the State Department itself are doing. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And I would especially like to thank Wizz-Air for their involvement in this. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea's intervention. Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-06-119	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Minister Péter Szijjártó is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-04-06-120	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would also like to add that, in addition to fully legitimate measures to restrict passenger traffic, which is extremely important in addition to commuting and local border traffic, it is to maintain continuity in international freight traffic. Our task is to protect the health and life of Hungarian people, but it is also our task to ensure that the Hungarian economy is operational and that the Hungarian people are provided with continuous care. Last year, trade flows between Hungary and the seven neighbouring countries were 43 billion euros, so it is clear how closely our economies are intertwined. We will therefore continue to discuss the opening of new crossing points and the smooth operation of the current ones in relation to freight traffic, and we will also maintain transit routes, honourable Member, until the host countries really welcome their own citizens. After all, we want to avoid the emergence of congestion and congestion in Hungary due to obstacles to transit traffic from other countries. But the point is, the more crossings are legally open to commuters, local border traffic and freight traffic, the better, so this is [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] We will continue to do our job. Thank you for raising this problem. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-06-121	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "When does the government realize that the entire sectors have stopped?" It's an address. Due to the Prime Minister's absence, Mr Gergely Gulyás has given the Prime Minister the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-04-06-122	I accept, thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-04-06-123	Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-04-06-124	Mr President, Dear House, I take the opportunity to point out to Minister my questions that are improving, positive. The situation is a little peculiar, since you have announced an economic recovery package, the details of which you, as the Minister responsible, cannot be understood, since these are not invented. For example, the percentage you think about in terms of the replacement of the lost wages. They mentioned that a few hours or a day would ask for patience in this matter. I'm asking Minister to change history. You have the opportunity that I do not have: you have a direct line to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, to the people who will fix this package and work it out by tomorrow. I suppose they'll measure the reactions of the public, how far or how far they can go on this issue. I'm scraping you for 80 percent courage, Minister. It is necessary to provide 80% of all Hungarian workers compared to the wage level so far. I think that this is the only solution, and we have also submitted our project to Parliament in this spirit. I don't want you to give unconditional basic income to large masses until the end of time. The philosophy of that is far from me. However, if we say that we guarantee it for a six-month period until this crisis is expected to be completed, it may start to calm down in an economic sense, so that Hungarian workers can realise at least 80 percent of their previous earnings, so that they can continue to be taxpayers and not increase the camp for those in need of social transfers, then I really feel that we have something to talk about, that our economy will be able to recover quickly. All in all, Minister, I would like to ask you for a number: how do you feel about 80%? Can you hold on to this, or, using the 2008 German model for reducing working time, are you going to enter into a market deal to make up for a few percent, leave the rest to employers, and the masses of people are going to lose their jobs? This scenario is unsuitable to me. So I'm going to get him to take advantage of this one day. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and change history until tomorrow. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-04-06-125	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-04-06-126	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, What I can say about the issue is that the idea of governance and our government practices in the Member is very different. At yesterday's government meeting, the government discussed this package of proposals and made detailed decisions. These decisions will be presented tomorrow by Minister Palkovic. These decisions are very helpful, especially in troubled sectors, but do not lead to immediate bankruptcy. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-06-127	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return, please. [[17.10]]
u2020-04-06-128	Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry, but this is an unworthy response to a disaster. You are aware of the package that has been developed. This means that he will not tell us certain details of this, he will not talk to opposition representatives about it, confrontation, and the competent minister will announce them at some point. Then why are we having an instant questioning hour? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why didn't you address your questions to Minister Palkovics?]] It's quite amazing, Minister. It's an emergency, thousands of people lose their jobs every day. It is your dog's duty to communicate and negotiate about this in a meaningful, detailed way. I could go further as to why the whole group of minions is not benefiting, we could go further, why executive bans still affect small pensions and the smallest incomes, but I do not want to put you in an unworthy position. What I'm interested in is your personal opinion that you can afford the 80 percent wage guarantee, whether or not you're close to this world of thought. Do not do this to the institution of Hungarian parliamentarism, either, that you are aware of certain decisions and figures, but you are quite simply keeping secrets and refusing to enter into specific matters.
u2020-04-06-129	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-04-06-130	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank God it's not government practice to adjust government announcements to immediate questioning. All the details that the Prime Minister has said today, you, as the Hungarian public, have learned, and tomorrow you will hear from Minister Palkovic all the details and presentations that go deeper. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: That's not very honest!]] Furthermore, in order to keep your interest on tomorrow's agenda, the Monetary Council will sit and make announcements. And as opposed to the lies spread by you and your allies to the Democratic Coalition all over the world, [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Oh, don't be unworthy of the subject.]] the Hungarian Parliament is meeting and is not closed, so you will have the opportunity to inquire about them in next week's instant questioning hour, or if you do not like to debate them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-06-131	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: It wasn't a very brave answer!]] Honourable Parliament! József Attila Móring, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What are the first three weeks' experiences with the introduction of a digital working order outside the classroom? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, he appointed Secretary of State Bence Rétvári to respond. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[Attila Móring József: Yes, thank you.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-06-132	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, We are living in extraordinary times, the protection against the Crown Virus has transformed the entire nation's life. When the pandemic reached Hungary, we had to make several important decisions, such as the transformation of education. In higher education there has been a ban on visits to institutions, and public education and vocational training have changed to a digital working order outside the classroom. Unfortunately, we have to deal with a prolonged epidemic where the most important aspect is to protect our health, and it is in the best interest of our children to learn according to their age, and not to lose all months of school year. The task was not simple, because, on the one hand, it was necessary to ensure that students really stayed at home, but at the same time to be able to study successfully at home. In this situation, new forms of digital education had to be invented, mastered and applied. The principals of schools, teachers and, of course, parents played a huge role in this. In order to ensure the functioning of the labour market, it was important for schools to ensure supervision of children everywhere, since public education institutions have not been closed down. It had to be checked that each class was functioning and that all relevant students and parents were reached by e-mail or other forms of online contact. Then the new form of education could begin. Dear Secretary of State, Successful control of the epidemic is in the common interest of all of us, and it is also in our common interest that our children do not fall behind in learning and that this academic year can be successfully completed. In order to do this, I would like to ask the honourable Secretary of State what the first three weeks' experience is in introducing a digital working order outside the classroom in education. Thank you for your reply.
u2020-04-06-133	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, who will answer the question. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-134	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, during one weekend there was a huge change in Hungarian education, which sometimes takes years, and there were only days. I think we should express our appreciation for both teachers and students and parents, because there are obviously bumps in such a transition, but many did not think that digital education could be switched so effectively. If you look at the fact that on the various portals, which contain digital curriculum and parts of the curriculum, what new high visiting rates there are, you can see that the daily visit to the Sulinet portal has risen to over 160,000 per day, the National Public Education Portal has increased to over 76,000 per day, the Education Office has risen to over 25 thousand on the website of the textbook catalogue, the number of teachers in the KRÉTA system is around 100,000, and the number of students is around half a million. So, indeed, a lot of people have gone up to the digital surfaces that have been created in recent years. Many others have opened their own surfaces, so not only in government developments, but also others. If you look at the tools that have been available to students and teachers in recent years: nearly 300,000 laptops, PCs, tablets, PDA and smartphones have been released to students, 46,000 laptops to teachers. These could be used at the best possible time. If we look at how many percentage of households with children had the internet in 2010, through which they could learn, digital teaching could be achieved, which was 76 percent in 2010, while the EU average was 83 percent, and today the Hungarian average is the same as the EU average, which has risen by 15 percent since 2010. So the conditions for home schooling are much better. In Hungary, the share of Internet subscribers in households with children has increased by 30 percent since 2010. So they all show that there are a lot more tools to enable children to continue teaching from home digitally on laptops, PCs and broadband internet. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-06-135	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2020-04-06-136	Thank you very much. We have daily experience of the period since the changeover, as there are very few Hungarian families who have not been affected in some form by the restructuring of the education system. We have seen closely digital education with the help of schools, teachers and parents. Here I would particularly like to highlight the work of the teachers of medicine, who may have the most difficult job in this situation. On behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, I can also say that we can give you all the support we need for this work. We thank teachers, parents and children for the sacrifices they have made over the past few weeks, which has enabled a successful transition. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-06-137	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-138	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, it was important for everyone to have a flexible attitude, perhaps it was also helped by the fact that the new types of public education developments were no longer based on previously protected and inaccessible content everywhere, but were fully open, accessible free of charge to anyone, so that the content was built on such developments as the common good. They don't need any special IT tools, and they don't need any code, no extra deposit, which is why they were more accessible to everyone. Teachers were also very active, as they downloaded the methodological recommendation 400,000 times during the first weekend, which the Education Office posted on its website in connection with the transition to the new digital working order. It can also be said that students at home, according to the OECD, have the same proportion of the conditions required for learning, i.e. a quiet room, a computer for school purposes, in Hungary, as in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Austria, Finland, Germany or England. However, we are appreciably ahead of countries such as France, Spain and Italy. So fortunately, there were instruments, and according to the TALIS 2018 survey, more than 65 percent of teachers felt prepared to use digital tools in education two years ago. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-06-139	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Tibor Bana, an independent Member, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question: . What is the government's assistance to the municipalities in an emergency situation? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Tibor Pogácsás has given him the right to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. I would like to inform you that if you do not accept the respondents, your immediate question will be deemed withdrawn on the basis of the Parliament's adopted decision. [[Tibor Bana: Yes, I accept.]] You have the floor, Congressman. [[17.20]]
u2020-04-06-140	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, As a responsible independent opposition parliamentary representative, over the last few weeks, I have tried several times to draw the government's attention to the fact that we should not leave the settlements alone and help the municipalities. Unfortunately, last week's proposal, which has been withdrawn since then, and the announcement by Minister Gergely Gulyás on the withdrawal of the part of the motor vehicle tax for municipalities on Saturday, did not point in this direction at all. I would like to remind you that in the context of the bill on the protection of the Crown Virus, János Bencsik and my independent colleague presented a package of amendments. This package also included the reimbursement by the State to local authorities of the costs incurred as a result of the emergency response by redeploying public finances. Unfortunately, you did not support this proposal either, even though we can see throughout the country that the municipalities perform heroically beyond their strength, whether it is the smallest villages in the Vendres or the Guards, Szombathely or the districts in Budapest, but I could list Jászberény, Szeged and almost all the settlements in Hungary, because fortunately, in the present situation, a very serious cooperation and cooperation have developed. That is why I find the statement by Minister Gulyás that he attacked the opposition mayors to be unworthy, as I believe that in opposition-led settlements, but also in pro-government-led settlements, there are a lot of positive developments in the current emergency. Local authorities with lower tax powers are particularly affected by the decision to withdraw the tax on motor vehicles, but this is also the case with regard to small municipalities and villages. Therefore, I ask the honourable Secretary of State what the Hungarian settlements can expect, what help the municipalities will receive from the government. I look forward to your substantive answers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-04-06-141	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tibor Pogácsás. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-06-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Government of Hungary considers the state of health and health of Hungarian people to be a national issue. In the event of an emergency caused by a coronal virus epidemic, the government expects people to cooperate, and people can count on government cooperation and, of course, we expect the cooperation of local governments. At the same time, it should be pointed out that all forms of protection and the strategy for protection against the disease caused by the coronal virus are managed by the operational tribe set up for that purpose and the types of protection are also determined by the operational tribe. I think this is logical, a worldwide epidemic cannot be dealt with locally in local communities, so it is necessary to centralise the way in which the epidemic can be slowed down. Protectors shall have the necessary means to do so. In the present case, in the case of municipalities, the basic request is that in the case of people over the age of 65, the assistance needed to obtain the food necessary for their daily life should be provided by the municipalities. The operation of municipal institutions is partially limited, but municipal institutions should continue to allow children to be supervised, preserved and provided with the necessary skills. The resources required for this are available to the municipalities and, since there is significantly less use than in normal periods of diligence, the costs are also lower and these costs can be used to carry out other tasks. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-143	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, We see this issue differently, and I have received other signals from the municipalities, not just from Vas County, but from all over the country. I am thinking here, for example, of the deadlines for reporting that there is still no flexibility, but that there is an appeal to the municipalities, but I could also mention the audits of the State Audit Office. I think that should not be the most important thing in the current situation. Of course, there were positive examples. For example, there have been cases where the former punishment has been reduced or abolished. I can certainly talk about these in a positive way, but there are numerous additional costs for municipalities. I'm thinking, for example, about the security costs of GPs. It would be my suggestion that rather than withdrawing the car tax, you should touch the tao money or the outstandingly high salaries of state leaders. And I would ask you to help the municipalities, the municipal workers and, in addition to health workers, those in the social sphere should be given adequate financial appreciation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-04-06-145	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-04-06-146	Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Of course, everyone who is in excess of his strength in these difficult situations deserves to be given special attention and deserves to be respected. I think we should all give them that. At the same time, I must stress that the defence tasks of the municipalities must be consistent with those of the operational tribe. Specific provisions on protective equipment have not been published for municipalities, there are no obligations for municipalities to provide protective equipment for health care. Each municipality may, obviously, have additional commitments taking into account its own capacity to hold a load, but they must fulfil their obligations in this emergency, which are clearly regulated. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-147	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "It is good to know where his place is." Due to the absence of Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás has appointed Minister for his response. I ask Congresswoman to accept the person who is responding.
u2020-04-06-148	I'll take it.
u2020-04-06-149	Yeah. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-06-150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, On Friday, Viktor Orbán said that he works with brave people, and now it is also a duty for certain groups to be brave. First place is the priests, second place is the heads of state, who have to make tough decisions, third place is the police, the soldiers, the emergency services, the uniforms, and then there are the doctors. I don't know, you've been watching, Minister, how much outrage these few sentences caused on Friday. I would like to turn over who is first in our eyes: doctors, nurses, nurses, surgeons, paramedics, paramedics, paramedics, assistants, cleaners, shopkeepers, supermarkets, carriers, social workers, teachers, kindergartens, nurses, chefs, kitchen maids, mayors, municipal workers, public workers, postmen, postal workers. You know, Minister, it doesn't matter what the order is. Who's driving the country on their backs today? This is not done in the order in which the Prime Minister listed. And I would like to highlight the families who now bear three times the burden, especially the mothers, the women. They're still going to work, so let's hope a lot of them still have their jobs. They cook for the family at home, because now there's no one to cook for them. They teach the child and study with the child and children at home. And, of course, they tend to their elderly parents and grandparents. You know, Minister, these people have the greatest respect in Hungary today, not for statesmen and not for church leaders. I think you should find the right way, too, and when we say thank you, we should start with these people first. I ask Minister that you agree with the Prime Minister's words. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-04-06-151	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-04-06-152	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In some respects, the Hungarian Socialist Party cannot easily escape its past 30 years after the change of regime. The class-fighter logic you have described is far from ours, and I would not recommend making the anti-churchism the leading thread of a single party, which, even if it wasn't, indicated that you were offended by this order or list. In your list, carriers were very far behind, and I think carriers are very brave people, who, at this time, undertake through national borders to ensure continuity of supply in a very large number of countries. [[17 .30]] I think, therefore, if we do not approach from here, and the Socialist Party does not wish to interpret the Prime Minister's sentences on the basis of its own past, then we can even agree, because all those listed by the Prime Minister and all those listed by you contribute very much to keeping this country operational, and in the face of all the difficulties caused by an epidemiological defense that has not been seen for over a century, students are able to learn overall, the state is operating in far more difficult circumstances, and the economy is obviously suffering serious losses, but still, freight transport is ongoing. So I would not suggest that we get involved in that debate, obviously in a situation where there is a need for spiritual assistance, so the role of churches is serious, and I would not suggest that we get involved in a debate about who is more important, the carrier, the doctor or the priest. We all need to do our jobs, and I suggest that we thank everyone together for being able to endure in these difficult times. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-153	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-154	You know, Minister, the problem is that these people have all been left out of the Prime Minister's list, everyone has been left out, no one has been listed, and believe me, in times of crisis, in times of war, most of the sacrifices are made by families, and that we can sit here, you, and that the Prime Minister may be Prime Minister, because of these families, and that on Friday he forgot to mention these families, Mr. Prime Minister. And I'm very sorry if in the first place... I didn't make any distinction between them, I've listed each of them as being in the first place in my eyes, and then after that you're in the last place, or what, because these people are the ones who are putting up with everything today in the time of the plague. And I think that when we put down the proposals that these families should be helped with at least a double family allowance, or that mothers should be given some kind of relief, because believe me, [[The president's ringing the bell.]] [[The president's ringing the bell.]] today and in times of crisis, the greatest burden is always borne by mothers in families. I would expect an answer from Minister (the president bell rings) that you really agree with what Viktor Orbán said. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-04-06-155	Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-04-06-156	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I agree with the list of all those mentioned by the Prime Minister, and I also agree with the list of those mentioned by you, so I would not make a difference in that form. From the point of view of family policy, I would like to reassure you that, according to the Eurostat statement of the European Union, no one spends as much money on family policy on their own budget as a significant share of their own budget as Hungary. This may be comforting for you, too, if you rightly pointed out the mothers. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-157	Thank you very much for the Minister's reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman László Varju, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: why doesn't the government help those in distress, and when does the government admit that the EU supports crisis management with a huge amount of money? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, he appointed Mr András Tállai Secretary of State, Deputy Minister, to respond. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[On the mark of László Varju:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-06-158	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Deputy Minister, The crisis caused by the corona virus causes much more serious difficulties for Hungarian families, businesses and pensioners due to past mistakes in the health policy and economic policy of the Orbán government and its current delays. The Democratic Coalition has already made 60 proposals to deal with the crisis, and we have not received any thanks from you, but at least a few have been taken. The Hungarian families lose their livelihood, tens of thousands remain without pay or work, so the Democratic Coalition has also studied international experience, in consultation with experts, economists and trade unions, prepared a comprehensive 20-point rescue package. That is why it is incomprehensible why Minister Mihály Varga has resigned his report to the Committee on Budgets, which has already been agreed with the Committee on Budgets. This package includes, among other things, that those who have lost their job and are forced to take unpaid leave will receive 80 percent of their wages from state resources for a few months. It includes the fact that employees in public services, institutions and public companies will receive their full basic salary during an emergency period of employment, such as the 60 employees of the spa in Szigetvár; the period of payment of the job search aid should increase to 6 months. That is why I am asking the Deputy Minister why they do not take account of the situation that has crippled people's lives, why they do not provide a meaningful rescue package for families and businesses like the neighbouring countries. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-04-06-159	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let me tell you, however, that Ferenc Gyurcsány [[A statement from the opposition: Finally!]] announced his 20-point package when Minister Gergely Gulyás announced [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes. Laszlo Varju laughs.]] that the government is preparing an economic protection package [[Varju László Z. Carpathian to Daniel: You too have it!]] It will establish an economic protection fund and an epidemiological fund, so it is clearly political in nature that it will be damaged before the economic protection package is announced. [[László Varju intervenes.]] By the way, I read it, I read it, I found a point that, to tell you the truth, I don't like: you'd give basic wages to kindergarten and nursery workers. As far as I know, they're getting more now, so what you want would be a worse solution from the present, but I'm sure you were motivated by good intentions, I don't doubt that. I assure the Member that the government is very responsible for reducing the economic impact of the coronal virus pandemic in Hungary. The primary aspect is the protection and preservation of jobs, and three notifications have been made in this spirit: two will be declared immediate on 18 and 23 March, which affected 500 000 employees and entrepreneurs, which meant that millions of people and hundreds of thousands of businesses do not have to pay their liabilities to credit institutions, banks, if they decide by the end of the year and do not have to pay taxes to small businesses, not to cut-outs, and do not have to pay contributions to sectors seriously affected immediately. I think that the government could and has done this as a first step in March. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-161	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-162	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In this budget, you also believe that there is HUF 1500 billion to be transferred, but you do not count the HUF 150 billion that you intend to communicate, but it does not include the HUF 2000 billion that the EU has converted to this, and so you have only done half the work. I can't tell you anything else: you don't care about Hungarian families, you don't care about small businesses, but you stick to the economy built within the framework of buddy capitalism. Well, this is the time to save people, and that's what we need to use every resource we have. What you're doing doesn't deal with the problems of the growing masses left behind, hundreds of thousands threatened with dismissal are in despair, caused by parents and small businesses left behind with children, you don't want to deal with them at all. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-06-163	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Deputy Minister shall be rejoined. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-164	Thank you. His words must be rejected and denied, for the government's aim is to help people, the people whose jobs are now in danger. But help must be real with real money. That is why we set up the economic security fund with 1345 billion and the epidemiological fund with 663 billion. Gergely Gulyás, Minister for Foreign Affairs, said specifically what this is: it is an existing money in the Hungarian budget. But what you are saying is that the European Union and its name is already in place, but there is no money in it, and it would have been worth 2,000 billion forints, it is simply not true, because you are talking about money, together with the European Union, that Hungary has already received and has actually used, it is not real money. Hungary, as has been before, can count on itself to protect itself from the coronal virus. [[László Varju: You don't spend anything on people!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[17.40]]
u2020-04-06-165	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor.
u2020-04-06-166	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, Those who make the situation difficult for those on the front line of defense sin against the Hungarian nation. That's why it was extremely outrageous that you announced that you were withdrawing funds from large settlements, from large cities in the first place. However, it is a mandatory task of the municipalities and is carried out in a good quality by the elderly. It is the responsibility of the municipalities to care for the infected who are recovering in their homes. And, yes, it is also the responsibility of the municipalities to provide risky people in official quarantine. It costs money, and I would add that this state will not help the municipalities. In addition, in my constituency there are two districts, the VIIIth. and IX. The district has also introduced the pandemic support that will help those who are in a hopeless situation because they lost their jobs already at the beginning of the crisis, and they have virtually no chance of finding work during the epidemic. I think that this irresponsibleness cannot be allowed by the government to help them, and at the moment, unfortunately, we see that nothing has been said in the communication that you have said so far, about how you intend to help the lives of the tens of thousands who are in a situation where they have no chance of earning income for their families, specifically and only because of the epidemic. My question, Minister, is how and when you intend to help these families and how and when you intend to take meaningful action in their behalf. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-06-167	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-04-06-168	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, As I understand it, his speech concerned two questions: the issue of municipalities and how we can help the citizens of Hungary in general. In the case of municipalities, I can tell you that in the last 9 to 10 years the expenditure of municipalities has not been significantly reduced by the fact that the health system, except for part of the specialised care, or the education system, has been financed by the central government. However, in 2019 the budgetary support of municipalities from the State is also about the same as the last budget adopted by your allies in 2010, including local and municipal taxes. So much less work and roughly the same amount of money, without any inflation monitoring, but if you look at the falling tasks, I think that the municipalities have also benefited from the economic ascent that Hungary has been through. And if some of my fellow opposition Members have agreed to nod here, then this can continue when I add that we have freed the municipalities from 1,400 billion burdens, which were also accumulated during the governance of the Members sitting next to you. So I don't think it's fair to accuse the government of being anti-government. As a matter of fact, in a situation where a huge share of public revenue is falling out, neither of us knows how much of it is, but everyone considered economic growth between 3.5 and 4.5 percent from foreign analysts to Hungarian analysts at the beginning of the year to be realistic, the question today is that we can avoid recession or how much recession will be; it affects central revenues and we pay most of the defence from central revenues. Therefore, starting from last year's budget of 1760 billion, the transfer of 34 billion to the disease control fund cannot be considered excessive in any respect. [[It's a rare applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-06-169	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-170	Dear Minister, Dear House, Thank you for the floor. I asked you a question, but of course you didn't answer that, Minister. I asked a question about how and when the government will help the lives of the tens of thousands who have lost their jobs and who have no chance of getting a new job during the period of the epidemic. There are many such families, there are many families in which the worker is forced to take unpaid leave, who are thus excluded from the social benefits system. Practically at the moment, I know of two local governments who are helping them: Districts and VIII. district, and my question is that the Hungarian state wishes to help our fellow countrymen who have lost their jobs, and there is no realistic chance that in the coming months, because the roofing will only take place in June, July, but not because they don't want to work, but because they don't have a chance. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-06-171	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-04-06-172	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It has been said several times today, so I can only repeat it. Mr President, you are well aware that today the unemployment benefit, more commonly known as unemployment benefit, is entitled to three months for everyone who has lost their job. I would not advise anyone to accept unpaid leave as a coercion, because in the worst case, he is entitled to benefits for months; therefore, in companies in which there is a risk that the job cannot be retained, I would not recommend this to anyone there. And the government's very determined intention, the Prime Minister has also repeatedly said that it serves in today's main lines, and tomorrow we will also announce in detail an action plan, an economic protection plan, so that everyone who loses their job will be given an opportunity. I see the opposition's willingness to distribute aid, but we want to create a chance, and we want everyone to get a job, and that is why we will do everything we can, and the plan that the government has accepted will make a major contribution to this. Within three months, if the epidemic situation is behind us, the growth of the economy and the investments that we are launching will create a great deal of jobs for all those who may or may not have lost their jobs. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-06-173	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance:. What is going on? It's an address. Mr András Tállai, Minister of State, appointed a Deputy Minister to respond to his absence. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-06-174	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Deputy Minister, Today, I was shocked to hear Máté Kocsis speaking about the fact that if we measure it to the multinationals and banks, then the municipalities must contribute the least to the crisis management here, with only.34 billion. I do not understand how municipalities can be compared with multinationals and banks. We're not talking about the same two things. Like health care, municipalities are struggling to control the epidemic. However, this is hindered by the withdrawal of the vehicle tax. It's like they're taking money from hospitals right now. Multis are okay, parties are okay, banks are okay. Obviously, they have to contribute to tackling the crisis, although the fidesz oligarchs have been left out, who would also have what, but they are taking the money from the municipalities that they would spend on defence. Dear Deputy Minister, In the protection against the epidemic, the municipalities received additional extra tasks: care for people over 70 years of age, care for those in official quarantine. In a number of areas, municipalities are self-employed in order to protect people, such as the continuous disinfection of public areas, and I could list them as extra expenditure. It is the municipalities who are in direct contact with citizens. When citizens have a problem, they have a problem, they will not go to the government, they will go to the local government, because they are in direct contact with the local residents. By the way, the confidence index is also the highest for municipalities when compared with other public institutions. In short, the current capacity of local authorities to combat the epidemic situation will be limited, so extra resources are needed and not a reduction of resources. Dear Deputy Minister, My question is, what do you intend to do to help the municipalities stop this epidemic? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[17.50]]
u2020-04-06-175	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-176	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Before I answer, I will tell you that for eight years I was mayor, between 2002-2010, I have made at least eight budgets for the city of Mezőkövesd and many other institutions, multi-purpose small regional association. By the way, this is also my profession, an economist, an economist, so I'm telling you that when a municipal budget is being made, the first and most important thing is that we are creating a reserve, just as the country is creating a reserve. The country has a reserve of nearly HUF 500 billion in its 2020 budget. When we form a reserve, then obviously for purposes that are not expected. In a local government, it is true that these are not the unexpected goals that the corona virus is coming, and people need to be helped, mouth masks must be provided, protective equipment must be purchased for workers in the institution. I think that, indeed, a responsible municipal budget must be prepared by all 3200 municipalities in Hungary, and that is precisely the purpose of the reserves now, because it is the beginning of the year, after a quarter of a year the coronal virus came. It is clear that the municipalities must also sacrifice, not to mention that the municipalities are now able to show how good they are, how they can help their own people, people who are socially dependent. As far as the share of car tax revenue is concerned, Máté Kocsis said that he did not reach 1 percent in their budget. I can give you numbers from Mezőkövesd's point of view, with a vehicle tax of HUF 40 million compared to 1200 local taxes. It's a significant item, that's true, but it's manageable, and it doesn't affect the city's viability. I believe that this is the most important thing that a municipality can ensure. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári applauds.]]
u2020-04-06-177	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-178	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Deputy Minister, it's quite cynical that you referred to or you refer to the reserve. Then why doesn't the government solve these costs from the reserve, why do you want them from the municipality's reserve? Máté Kocsis mentioned that 180 million was only VIII. in the district, if this cost is taken away. Wouldn't that 180 million be in a better place than, say, social support for people who lose their jobs? ! Mr Secretary of State said, Mr Deputy Minister, that the budget should be planned. Let me inform you about this year's budget for the municipalities. The car tax is taken away, tourism tax is probably not going to happen in most places, local business taxes are going to fall greatly, parking revenues will not be for a long time, rentals and rents are likely to fall in a good number of places, public usage charges, which you have now changed, will also be left behind, additional costs in the context of protection, and the number of social benefits will have to be increased, because local people will go there for aid and they cannot be sent away. Mr. Secretary of State did not respond to how they were helping the municipalities. I can only quote one classic: if the government can't help the municipalities, then at least don't stop it!
u2020-04-06-179	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-180	I think that in such a situation, in which the world exists, there is Europe and Hungary, the common burden, and if you like it or not, we must be united, because otherwise we will not be able to get through this pandemic, and we will have much bigger problems and problems, and we will not be arguing about who is more difficult than the state budget or the local governments, because it is difficult for all of us, it is difficult for a business, in tourism, in hospitality, and we can continue to list the sectors. Here, of course, you can complain in Parliament and elsewhere, the whole point is to think responsibly and to think about what we can do and not give our hands to the government. You've just got a mayor, you've got a local government, and you think there's only one solution from here on out, that we're coming to the government, and we're asking the government, we're asking for it. No! We are responsible in our thinking, farming and operating, which is what I recommend to you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-181	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, from the Fidesz Group, would you like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs an immediate question: å Can Hungarians stranded abroad still count on the government's help? It's an address. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor.
u2020-04-06-182	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, Unfortunately, last week we have seen how the largest and richest countries fall prey to the Crown Virus. Even the United States with one of the most powerful economies in the world could not prevent it from entering the stage of mass infections almost immediately. These shocking news all points to the fact that the return of our stranded countrymen abroad is an important and urgent matter, and therefore it is very welcome that another 240 citizens returned safely from the United States of America on Thursday. Together with them, a total of 7075 of our compatriots came home in this grand operation. This figure is even more remarkable in view of the fact that the first plane landed on 22 March, so it was possible to solve the return of more than 7,000 people in a long two weeks. These are spectacular and important results, thank you for that, Minister. However, we also have to admit that most countries in the world are unfortunately still in the emerging stage of the epidemic, which is why I think it is important that we continue to give priority to helping our citizens who are trying to get home. Dear Minister, You said here just a week ago that one of the most important elements in the fight against the epidemic is the return of Hungarians stranded abroad. On this basis, we can rightly assume that we can expect that the government will continue to work actively to enable our fellow countrymen to return home. I also ask how you can expect cooperation with other Central European countries in this fight. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-183	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó. Mr. Secretary, please.
u2020-04-06-184	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, Here's what I can tell you. The largest return action in modern Hungarian history is currently taking place, in which 7841 Hungarian citizens have been brought home in recent weeks, and we are currently organizing the return of 883 Hungarian citizens in order to ensure that everyone is safe at home in this period of pandemic, when in many parts of the world, in many countries, in many regions of the world, the possibilities of commercial air transport are virtually completely impossible, airports are closed, airlines are shutting down completely, the vast majority of their flights are cancelled, or the entire airspace is being rendered unavailable for civil aviation. Of course, we are responsible for all Hungarians, including those who have been trapped beyond our borders in different parts of the world. I would like to say to my fellow Member that we have been exemplary in cooperation with the Slovaks, the Czechs and the Austrians, as well as with the Croatians and the Slovenians. During last week's repatriation from the United States and Canada, you mentioned, we brought 28 foreign citizens in addition to 240 Hungarians, 17 Slovaks, 10 Slovenians and 1 Croatians, but 87 Hungarians travelled on the relief flight launched by Slovaks from Washington, the LOT and the Poles have just been left out, hundreds of people have returned home with their apology flights, and when there are some Hungarians and some Central Europeans in some remote parts of the world, we collect them and we always launch planes for them in Central European cooperation. This will be the case in the next period, because, as I said, even though we have brought home 7841 Hungarians, 883 are still waiting for us to bring them home. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-185	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here you go. [[18.00]]
u2020-04-06-186	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Thank you very much for your reply, and I respectfully accept that. Allow me to thank you and all your colleagues from here, and thank you for taking to heart the fate of Hungarian citizens now, in this particular emergency, during the outbreak of the Crown Virus, including the fate of citizens who are at the stage of their life when they are stranded abroad. I wish you very much success and strength in your further work. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-187	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rebuttal answer for the Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-04-06-188	Thank you for your kind words to the Member, and I will pass it on to those you deserve. However, I would like to say that the question that you raised was also relevant in terms of cooperation in Central Europe, because it turned out that we could only rely on ourselves in the process of repatriation or return, because since the beginning of March it was clear that there would be air traffic restrictions, compared with the letter from the European Union Commissioner for Disasters, in which he informed us that, under very serious conditions, they could even provide compensation for return, he arrived on 31 March. So it took the European Commission a month to connect to the fact that many tens or even hundreds of thousands of EU citizens were stuck abroad. And when we met virtually last week at the Foreign Affairs Council, it was also said by several foreign ministers that the problem now is not really homecoming to Europe, but flights within Europe. So I would just like to point out that there will be more challenges in the coming weeks and months. Thank you again for raising the subject and thank you for the words of appreciation. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-189	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tibor Nunkovics, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has given the Secretary of State the right to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-06-190	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, However, we need to be clear that we will have to deal with a much more serious problem when the epidemic is over, and this will be an economic challenge, an economic crisis, probably much more serious than what the 2008 crisis meant. What I see from this part of the government is that, in fact, they do not want to prepare for this very unpleasant situation in the long run, or they have done one thing so far: try to set their economic interests in a slightly different direction. They're talking about how we should all share a burden. So far, so good. But where are your oligarchs out of this common burden? Where's Butcher Lawrence? Where is István Tiborcz or Mr. Garanchi? And there's a lot more to go on. For example, István Tiborcz won 2 billion HUF for yacht club construction in Balatonfüred a few days ago, if I remember correctly. Compared to this, for example, you will take away half of the party's state support, which we say is, of course, all right, we will do, but only in comparison: the state aid granted to István Tiborcz is exactly twice as much. But what direction should we go? The automotive industry plays a very important role in the Hungarian economy, and we now see that there are very serious problems in the automotive industry. But international examples show that, for example, a Ferrari, a Seat, or a Ford could switch to producing respirators for the State, but not just for the State, but also for other countries. What I would like to know from the Secretary of State is that they are planning at least something similar, to sit down with the Hungarian car manufacturers and tell them that you can listen, you can switch to the production of respirators, because then you can give people jobs and pay wages. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-06-191	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda, who will answer the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-06-192	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The question was what I thought. I'd rather keep that to myself, because there was so much nonsense in his speech that I would rather not go to all the elements of this now. However, allow me to draw attention to the fact that today a new economic action plan has been announced that will give a clear and clear answer to a number of aspects of your question. The allegations that you have made that we would not pay attention to the workplace of Hungarian people, that we would not work to keep the Hungarian people at work, that we would not pay attention to the fact that, by the way, we would be able to counter the growing joblessness and unemployment caused by economic problems, which is certainly happening, and that new jobs should be created in industries, in areas which, whether now or in the coming years, will continue to make Hungary a well-developed and growing economy of our European territory and, by the way, one of the world. Allow me to say that the results that we have achieved over the last decade are clear, the results that we achieved after 2010 after the governance of your friends and allies, when we had to take government over 12 percent unemployment, and this has now fallen to 3-3.5% by the beginning of the year. This number will now increase, it is clear and clear, but I think that it gives us a good security and stability to our words, that basically the measures that have been born, undertaken and fulfilled over the last decade, and that we are now setting out the goal of taking measures to protect jobs and create new jobs. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-193	[[The president's microphone isn't working. Take a few seconds.]] Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. The devil of technology, in vain, sometimes prevents me. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-194	[[The congressman's microphone is not working, so his speech is difficult to hear.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I have only one ally, and those are the people who, thanks to their vote, I can speak here today and express my opinion, but also their opinions. The truth seems to mean nonsense to you, and I'm very sorry, and I'm sure in time you'll improve it, even as young as I am. The public work programme, I warn you, did not mention it, but I would like to say in advance, will not be a solution, at least it will not be a quick and long-term solution. Here it is necessary to recognise that Hungary has become a assembly plant, so suppliers also have a lot of suppliers, who are Hungarian companies, and while I was travelling up here today, I spoke to such an entrepreneur who said that due to the difficulties of the automotive industry [[András Tállai: No sound.]] They have a lot of problems, too. So I think that this is where progress and longer-term planning should be made. [[András Tállai to the president: No voice.]] Mr. Secretary of State Tallai... [[Intercoms: No sound.]]
u2020-04-06-195	The sound is on, so continue, Congressman, we're counting this short time, it's almost over. There you go, finish your thoughts.
u2020-04-06-196	Okay, thank you very much. But I'd be happy to start over. [[Depreciation and interruptions.]]
u2020-04-06-197	No! Congressman, this isn't a hunch festival. You can finish your thoughts.
u2020-04-06-198	[[The congressman's mic's working.]] Yeah, okay. If it's funny, it's funny. The point is that Hungary is a country that is heavily exposed because of its exports, and because of its imports, and also because of its imports, and recently, in Portfolio, an analysis of the extent to which these countries will be at risk, and Hungary is the fifth most vulnerable country because of its exports and imports, because they come from exactly countries that are currently facing very serious problems due to the epidemic, and that is what will have to be overcome. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-06-199	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-06-200	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Let me try to reassure you once again that, on the one hand, we are not informed from the press about the country's economic situation and current information, but we have accurate and factual data, which is why we think that we do need the big economic action plan that the Prime Minister has announced today, which reaches 18 and 20 percent of GDP. I think that such a large-scale action plan with such broad measures is at all available in few countries, if there is a country with such a broad set of measures. [[18.10]] Or allow me to draw your attention to the fact that the conversion of a car factory to the production of a respirator is not self-evident. Of course, there are countless researches and countless collaborations in the field of industry with companies who are looking at this possibility, but there is not the car factory, as the newspaper wrote, but this is a more complex thing, all kinds of companies that know how to produce it. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] the characters you referred to. [[The president's ringing again.]] Let us take this question more seriously. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-201	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question. It's an address. Mr András Tállai, Minister of State, appointed a Deputy Minister to respond to his absence. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer. [[For signal:]] Yes, you have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-06-202	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Deputy Minister, What Secretary of State Schanda has just said is that the government is not getting its information from the press, and we ourselves are pleased that they are aware of the real economy, but we could only learn from the press today what announcements will or will not be made to the Prime Minister. Families and companies were looking forward to this day and to the announcement of measures to protect families, since we also believe that there is nothing more important than the financial and housing security of families. That is why we have been waiting here in Parliament for precise, predictable answers when we ask these questions; when we see that four out of five families have no savings; when we see and hear from Minister Gulyás that up to four thousand people lose their jobs every day. We are told that so far about 30 000 people have lost their jobs and that the bans are continuing, the executions have not been suspended, this is also a huge burden on families, and the evictions will resume in May. Around us in every country and even in the 16 countries of the European Union, wage supplements are now paid between 60 and 90 percent, and the Hungarian government has not yet taken action. That is why we have been waiting for today to see what security, what prospects they can offer to those who want to work, but they cannot now, because of the epidemiological emergency. It's not what the Prime Minister says that there's no money without a job, and it's aid. They'd be working, but they can't work because of the new, changed rules. That is why I ask Mr Deputy Minister that there will be a rule that 80% of the wages of Hungarian workers will be taken over by the budget. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-06-203	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to State Secretary András Tállai, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-204	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Your question, according to which help is coming, I can answer yes, it is coming. He's been here for the last ten years, since 2010, since you gave Fidesz the opportunity to govern. I think we should look back a little bit now because your accounting word is interesting, while, by the way, when you were in the same situation, or perhaps this situation is a little worse, as has been said, from an economic point of view, you have pushed the Hungarian people to the bottom with foreign exchange loans, with the withdrawal of wages, with the dismissal of civil servants. [[Noise, interruptions from the ranks of the MSZP. The president's ringing the bell.]] 13, with the withdrawal of the 13th month's pension. I think you're hearing from you that the outbreak of the virus was found on March 4th, the first virus patient, the symptoms of the virus in Hungary, now two days past a month, and you're asking us what we're doing for the families that are negatively affected. If you are monitoring the government's activities in this direction, you can see that for the third week now, the government has announced for the third time what it is doing and what it is about to do. Today's announcement, the Prime Minister's announcement, was a macro-financial announcement, setting out the direction of support and assistance for the economy, the workers. Obviously, we'll get to know the details later. It has been said that a special Hungarian form will be introduced, and it is also unique in Europe. With respect, Mr President, I would like to ask you to wait for this; I think it will only take a few more hours to do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-205	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We'll wait, of course, for these few hours. Last week we were told to wait another week, today we were told to wait another day, we hope that tomorrow or even a few hours later, they won't tell us to wait a little longer. The criticisms: I think it is the opposition's job to hold me accountable. And what happened ten or twelve years ago, which you say was a completely different situation than this one, and this is a much deeper crisis, and I think we've always been constructive about it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You were very constructive in extending the emergency.]] We made proposals that the government later introduced. I think there's nothing more an opposition representative can do. Still, I think it's always better for the safety of families. It has not been six weeks since this outbreak, since November we have known that there will be such an epidemic, it will also be here in Europe, the government has, of course, had time to prepare. Believe me, we worry about families, we worry about companies and jobs.
u2020-04-06-207	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-208	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would only deny the Member's words that they have always been constructive, because they have not been constructive in adopting the law, which has accelerated the measures. [[Noise.]] In fact, they were very much opposed to the government, not only by you, but by raging the whole of Europe for attacking the Hungarian government, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. However, if you had observed the measures taken so far, the first measure was to give millions of families the opportunity not to have to pay the capital and interest to credit institutions and financial institutions. This is the first decision of the government that affected the entire Hungarian families, and anyone who wishes to live with it will live until 31 December. I think that this first decision was, in itself, a significant help to Hungarian families. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-06-209	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Health workers protect us But who protects them? It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-06-210	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, According to government data published so far, 85 health workers have been infected, which in itself is a shockingly high number, especially if we add the mortality rate, which is unfortunately the highest in the region. We know of many cases where medical workers, doctors, nurses have been infected, but there are cases that we cannot officially know but are still known throughout the country. For example, a test carried out last week at a leading health institution in Hajdú-Bihar County, which showed that more than 10 percent of workers in one department were positive. This is strange because according to the government's information, there are only 14 people infected in the county, so if the news is true, it is reasonable to assume that the numbers communicated by the government are not in any real context. We know very well, you have told us many times, human life is not a game, and health workers are fighting for us Hungarians, they are doing it in the front line, unfortunately in minimal protective equipment from the beginning, although two things would certainly protect them. One is the proper number of tests and the other is the normal protective equipment. But we also know that, to this day, worryingly few tests are being conducted in our country. And in vain, you're showing the head of government who's packing protective equipment, visiting the hospital and prison, and you're telling me how many millions of masks have arrived from China and the Turk Council, because it's nothing more than very dangerous and very expensive propaganda with minimal reality content. [[18.20]] And the truth is, most of the people in the clinics and hospitals because of you, the government has been forced to risk their lives in a non-protective surgical mask for weeks and months. The medical staff are protecting us. My question is, why aren't you protecting health workers, Mr. Secretary of State? Thank you very much.
u2020-04-06-211	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister.
u2020-04-06-212	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, I strongly reject your baseless accusations that the government would not do everything in its power to provide all the equipment needed to protect health workers, whether from home or abroad. Let me quote someone for you. Hand sanitizer, mouth mask and everything else from the municipality is not a favor, but a category of duty. That's what your party partner, Imre László, mayor of Újbuda, said on February 8, wrote on his Facebook page, and wrote the exact opposite on March 28, when he said that all responsibility for protective equipment was borne by the government. So between February 8th and March 28th, the opposite of your party partner's opinion became. This shows you talking all over the place, anything or anything you've said about the coronal virus epidemic, and it's only been a few months. You are also behind in numbers; I see that you have not read the news this weekend, honourable Member, since Minister Gulyás has made detailed reports on exactly how many people are infected with health care workers. But if you look at how many health workers in Spain are infected, you can see that, because they are subject to a degree, there are more than ten thousand patients in health care workers, in Ireland one in four are infected nurses or doctors, in Romania there are over 15 percent infected health workers; in Italy, unfortunately, even more than 80 of the dead were doctors and health workers. Hungary is doing everything in its power to ensure that health care workers have protective equipment, so in recent days about 30 aircraft have arrived, including the largest cargo carrier in Hungary. We've got 19 million medical, surgical masks, 1 million 700 thousand special masks, 206 thousand masks, 8 tons of mask material made of masks, 30,000 pairs of rubber gloves, 86 respirators, and a few more, 430,000 protective suits, 100,000 tests, 100,000 goggles, 27 tons of other protective equipment, and I'll be back for testing in a minute. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-06-213	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return, please.
u2020-04-06-214	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, You seem to have excellent propaganda and very good lists, but you can see what is most urgent for you in the fight against the epidemic. To prosecute opposition representatives, to infiltrate City Park from 8.6 billion, to prevent non-existent mass immigration, to provide free real estate to churches and Mary Schmidt's foundation, to obtain majority in the supervisory board of theatres, to forbid the name and gender change of transgenders, and, not least, to destroy, to drug local governments. Secretary of State, what you're doing is a disgrace. Your job is to protect the country, and the most important thing is to protect doctors and nurses, which they don't care about. I'm not a lawyer, but what you're doing right now is a classified case of occupational endangerment, which is Btk. He says he can be rewarded for up to ten years. My question is, who's gonna take responsibility? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I'm one of you. Who's taking the fall, Mr. Secretary? [[The president's ringing again.]]
u2020-04-06-215	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-04-06-216	Thank you very much. All you do, honourable Member, is call for dictatorship for two weeks, and free parking in Hungary and Budapest or in the cities is a tangible sign of dictatorship, in your opinion. Let me quote what I said about testing, which was also a baseless accusation on your part. And that... anyway, I'll be back if I have time to make any other accusations. According to Ledia Lazeri, head of the WHO office in Hungary, it is only in the suspicious cases that it is worth carrying out the tests. So he confirmed what was the practice of the Hungarian government; but not only he, but also the director of the European Emergency Programme of the World Organisation, asked for 168 Hours, and even the 168 Hours confirmed that the Hungarian authorities are on the right path, the measures adopted are suitable for detecting cases, and we are testing those whose symptoms are likely to be infected. In conclusion, he said that the measures adopted in Hungary are suitable for detecting cases. You said they were unfit, the WHO leader said they were fit. I'm more inclined to believe in the WHO on epidemiological matters than I am to believe in you. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]]
u2020-04-06-217	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, It's 6:24 p.m., and we've reached the end of the immediate questioning. Following today's agenda, please leave the room in accordance with the rules of the Director General, which were issued earlier, so as to ensure the protection of everyone's health. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Gergely Kálló, Member of the Jobbik Group, has applied for a post-meeting address:. The information should be spread, not the virus. I give the floor to the congressman.
u2020-04-06-218	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Historical experience is that the one who is afraid of collecting most credible information during the war has already won half the war. In this situation, it is no exaggeration to talk about a war situation, so it is essential that information spreads quickly, even faster, than the coronal virus itself. However, it can be said that today in Hungary the disease is spreading faster than the information itself. In parentheses, we have no better proof of this than the fact that in Hungary four weeks after the outbreak of the infection, the operational tribe first reported territorial data, so we are very far behind our western neighbours. It is no different with the municipalities and the mayors leading the municipalities. Based on personal rights, they cannot obtain information about the number of infected people in the settlements they run, who they are, where they live, even though they would know about these in two respects. On the one hand, they would help with patient care, thereby preventing the movement of infected persons, on the other hand, and perhaps most importantly, it would be easier to locate the disease locally, and thus, given the knowledge of the infected person and his connection system, we could slow down the spread of the virus. Unfortunately, with reference to these rights of personality, the leaders of the settlements cannot learn such important data that I was able to identify a victim of name, age, gender, work and other diseases within half a minute, as mentioned above, from the territorial data published by the operational tribe. In his case, in a merciful way, his personality data and rights were not so important. But let us take good examples. The virus's former focal point was Asia. Many countries are affected and are currently affected by the epidemic, so that we can gain various experiences and copy them in the spirit of effective defence. From the Far East countries so far, South Korea seems to be managing the situation most effectively. There, through applications, you can track the situation, movements and contacts of some sick people throughout the country, so that you can check for yourself and make it possible without a name. In addition, all coronal viral patients are asked for a detailed account of where they've been in the last few days, which will be checked immediately based on credit card transactions and surveillance footage. I repeat: we shouldn't go this far, many people would be happy if local leaders could get information about their settlements. But there are other good examples, which also have Hungarian implications. Like South Korea, Singapore monitors and publishes diagnosed patients and patients' movements, so it was possible that two Singaporean infected people had visited Hungary before. Both countries monitor, publish, and lead in slowing down the spread of the virus, the data collected from patients. I know that we are not at such a good technological level as those two countries, but at the same time everything must be done to ensure that the data currently available are as widely as possible, but at least at the level of city leaders. [[18.30]] The information must be transmitted in the most efficient way, not by the virus. I'm offering you our help in this, and I'm asking for yours. Finally, allow me to continue with the Thanksgiving monologue I gave during my speech after the last agenda. We owe thanks and gratitude to all those workers who work to help Hungary operate in this difficult situation: bakers, caterers, drivers of public transport, firefighters. Thank you, you're the real heroes, you're the real brave ones, say whatever you want. I'll continue the line. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-06-219	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group, has also applied for a post- Agenda address:. What will hundreds of thousands of families make a living on? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-06-220	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Prime Minister of Hungary has said the following two sentences in the last few days: - You must not turn back to the aid-based economy. We need to create enough jobs to replace the dead. These are the words of a prime minister who has no idea what kind of difficulty and burden the loss of jobs in Hungary is for Hungarian people. Of course, since the announcement of the emergency, we have seen that the government has not complied with any laws or regulations of its own making or initiating, no institution operates in this emergency as required by the laws and regulations. That is why we are surprised that our Prime Minister considers it to be a relief-based work that we demand that the Hungarian government provide disaster relief from the Hungarian budget, as set out in the disaster protection law and regulations. Why is that? Because each job loss is the result of a state measure. The closure of schools and kindergartens; the closure of catering establishments; entertainment and other activities that attract a large number of visitors; the closure of small companies where workers had to stay at home because their children had no one to trust. These were all due to State measures. According to the law, if a person suffers damage as a result of the State measure, i.e. he loses his job in the present case, the State must finance a man's livelihood from the central budget. This is what we have been talking about for two weeks now, and the Prime Minister is still on his way to think that it is up to him that people in Hungary will be able to eat next month. This does not depend on the Prime Minister of Hungary, but on compliance with the law. Let me say a few words about it being a big week, it's a big week before Easter. On the big week before Easter, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday is the color of purple in churches. Purple color is the color of forgiveness. I call on the government, the Fidesz and the KDNP, if they continue to preach about Christianity, the Christian faith outside this House and the House, then they will practice their apologies on the big week because they will not be able to comply with their own laws and the measures they have taken against the citizens, because the current measures are not in their interest, but against them, so please override them. Just because a person acts harshly as Prime Minister doesn't mean he can't behave fairly. A multitude of Hungarian citizens lose their jobs every day and face their children, who cannot go to school or kindergarten, and they cry that it is possible that in the next month there will be neither rent nor food to put on the table. And where will you be forced to move to? To those grandparents who, on the other hand, need to be protected from young people, because if the virus is caught, it can be more fatal. In this country, we need a government, not a paprika, who are virtually incapable of at least complying with their own laws. So I call on all those who make decisions in government...
u2020-04-06-221	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I'm asking you...
u2020-04-06-222	... you are entitled to comply with the laws and replace lost jobs with disaster relief, 100,000 forints a month. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-06-223	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I ask you to use your adjectives more sparingly, and please do not use these adjectives here in the House. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meet speech:.How long? It's an address. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-06-224	Mr President, Dear House, This is the world, a self-sustaining Europe, a self-sustaining Hungary, which I have believed in for decades, and I can believe in this situation. We can see that Prime Minister and his team in Hungary, after the first week and a half after the outbreak of the virus, were essentially looking for the pace, drifting after the events and looking for what they should do and in what form. After that, he took the initiative back with an action that could be regarded as a political feat, and then tried to lure the opposition into a political trap. In terms of political communication, I may stress once again that it has only brought political success in the short and medium term, it is certain that the Hungarian citizens are in the interest of existence, and what is at least so important, but the Prime Minister of Hungary has made fatal, capitulate mistakes in the future of Hungary. It must be seen that what has not worked in the last thirty years is not going to work now either. In the last thirty years, it is the way in which healthcare has always been treated as a mandatory money-sucking evil by successive governments, but everyone has saved the real regime change; and the fact that Hungary has been connected to the global production chain at a very low level, and this low degree has evolved to this day that, in fact, the seasonal offer of Western car manufacturers depends not only on Hungarian GDP, but also on the quality of life that Hungarian people, a large part of Hungarian workers, can have. And as the globalised world usually is, indeed, as a crisis breaks out in China, and as the supply of parts is blocked at one point in the world, the most exposed economies, even if they could still operate on their own, will be stopped. This is exactly what happened to Hungary: it is based on the activity of car manufacturers, and once again, our participation in a low supply chain has snapped, it has snapped, and a number of economic sectors have stopped and crashed in Hungary that could operate in the case of an economy that is not so exposed. What did Hungary and its government do at this point? He did not intervene as he could, and he did not intervene as he could, because now that 15 European countries are on the way to say concrete things about how he can make up for missing wages, a month after the spread of the epidemic and the outbreak of the virus in Hungary, Viktor Orbán and his ministers are still there that today, in Parliament, they could not pronounce a single specific percentage on their mouth as to where their planning phase is now. What we see is that the commendable idea of public burdens has been put on the flag, and I can only support it, but then it must be implemented. If, in the case of parties, we are expected to have 50 percent financial participation, so be it, how can this participation fee be below 50 billion in the case of a banking system with a record profit of more than 600 billion? Then why don't we just reciprocate the two? How can it happen, my fellow Members, that the multi-segment, which produces a billion-dollar profit here, but then does not pay here, once again, that after a thousand-billion-dollar scale, you can only put a few ten billion in this common register again? When we talk about the Hungarian employment protection fund, we miss the proportionality of this. So, not the municipal sector, but the banking sector, the network of multinationals, should bear unrealistic burdens. And let's look into the world for a little while, yet, what ideas are being put in place to remedy the crisis? [[18.40]] In Austria, they can make up for 80-90 percent of lost wages by paying only after the actual hours worked, while the rest by the state. In Bulgaria, focusing specifically on companies in vulnerable industries, they can replace between 60% and 70% of the loss of wages. In the Czech Republic, they can replace 80 percent of the wages of people whose jobs are temporarily closed due to the crisis, but if they are kept, after a few months, and we hope that this is all these jobs can be restored and that they can rebuild the economy. In Denmark, this rate is 75%. Companies can get compensation, and we are talking about compensation up to HUF 1.1 million per employee. And we also need to see that in France the amount of unemployment benefit is up to 84 percent of the salary. We don't ask for much, we don't ask for wasteful foreign solutions. We ask as much for Hungarian workers as the European market has already been for other workers. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] He was able to produce us because we believe in a self-sustaining Europe. But I believe much more in the self-sustaining Hungary of the future, which needs to be built now. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-04-06-225	Thank you. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group, has applied for a post- Agenda address:. Who and how are the victims of domestic violence now protected? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-06-226	Thank you very much. Mr President, Secretary of State... not anymore. Fellow Members! The spread of violence against women is becoming an increasing problem. A number of countries to address this are fighting violence through strong government measures. The Hungarian government has also taken steps to protect abused women, and that is right, but it is not enough now. It was a good decision to increase the number of victim support centres and set up an expert group on family law. The corona virus has also created a new situation with regard to violence against women. Unfortunately, the spread of the infection does not help the victims, and even the epidemic puts those who have suffered violence in a more difficult situation than before, as the closeness of family members at home has increased. As a result, the number of victims of inter-relationship violence has increased significantly worldwide. During continuous isolation, even the smallest tensions can be an opportunity for violent cases. This was confirmed recently by the head of the Hungarian National Crisis Management and Information Telephone Service. He said the number of phone calls has doubled in the last few weeks. There are countries where they respond decisively to the situation. In neighbouring Austria, the Minister of Justice announced an information campaign on the consequences of prevention and violence. The French government plans to rent 20,000 nights of hotel rooms for victims of domestic violence. The Spanish Government offers alternative accommodation in hotels for those who are victims of violence if the women's shelter network no longer has its own room. Unfortunately, another aspect of the relationship between the epidemic and violence against women has also become clear these days. We've known for a long time that the hardest time in an abusive relationship begins when the abused woman leaves the relationship, leaving this situation. The other party's violent behavior often strengthens even more. A case from my personal acquaintance shows how easily the situation of the victims becomes hopeless. Even though she left the community, she couldn't get rid of the situation. The man gave up on the common child, but the social services ordered joint custody. The abuser uses the custody of the child only to terrorize his former family. The range of harassment ranges from a life-threatening threat to beating and strangling. Even though the beatings were recorded, the police will only come and go to the house now if she asks for help. Although the legislation allows for the motion for a restraining order, because of the epidemic, the courts will pause their judgments. This puts the victim in a completely vulnerable position. Because of the epidemic, not only courts but also services for the protection of children are able to operate at a lower level. In the present situation, protective signalling services obviously have less insight into the lives of families. This also helps to strengthen abuse. Of course, I understand that during the epidemic, many professionals are forced to stop their work, but unfortunately, victims in vulnerable situations cannot wait. We cannot let the lives of thousands of victims of abuse be ruined in these weeks. In view of what has been done so far, I would like to ask the Minister what measures are being taken to prepare the authorities and the institutions that host the abused women to increase the number of cases of violence. Does the Ministry plan an information campaign similar to the Austrian example in the fight against domestic violence? It is planned by the government that domestic violence cases will be dealt with out of the question, despite the lack of judgment. Is it possible to issue restraining orders to protect victims? How does the government intend to protect children who are constantly at home from abuse, who are currently out of sight of the signalling system? I am confident that the Ministry will deal with these matters again. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-06-227	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr László Varju, DK Group, also came forward after the agenda, with the title Újpesten. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-06-228	Thank you very much. The previously planned agenda is added, to the point that the government's planned or announced decisions have resulted in hundreds of millions of HUF damage to the Municipality of Újpest. These withdrawals reduce the opportunities that the municipality has planned and has already taken decisions on them. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that when you say here, Minister Gulyás, that there is more money for the municipalities with fewer tasks, and that the municipalities think exactly the opposite: they have much more to do and less money. Only with regard to the measures taken by the Újpest municipality to control the coronal virus, I must mention that there was also an organising operational tribe that would otherwise carry out the related tasks. I must mention that hand sanitizers have been placed in both the clinic and other areas, such as the municipal building, thus preventing the spread of infection. The municipality operates a day-to-night help line to help the elderly and those in the home quarantine ordered, in which volunteers and staff of the municipality participate, thus reaching more than 100 addresses per day at this stage. But I think we're gonna need more than that, and we need to be able to do that. And that includes the Animal Rescue League's activities, by the way. Of course, when kindergartens are closed, it is a task. It is a task that doctors and nurses over the age of 65 cannot work in Újpesten. All decisions taken from the closure of playgrounds to the ban on eviction from municipal property will help the population of Újpest. Of course, it is important that you set up a HUF 100 million fund to compensate for damage caused by the Crown Virus in the 2020 budget, but at the same time I immediately say that, in my view, the municipality is doing everything it can to control the epidemic, but at the same time these damages, the economic crisis caused by the Crown Virus, are affecting the population of Újpest in this way. I think it is expected that the government will reimburse these costs. [[18.50]] In particular, if the municipality had the task of buying a thousand masks separately, because otherwise the government was not able to provide these devices in time. In particular, I should mention the temporary closure of the Market-Place in order to combat the spread of the virus. But I must mention the organisation of the Crown Virus Crisis Fund donation line in Newpesten, through which it is possible for individuals, businesses and companies to contribute to the costs incurred, and from that fund, in addition to the acquisition of goods and equipment, to receive support for those who are involved in this, especially health care workers, workers in social care, firefighters, police officers and vigilantes. However, it was also decided to establish a HUF 50 million fund for the compensation and support of the tenants of the Újpest municipal business premises. I think we need to do everything we can to keep jobs in this way. But not only in Újpesten, but from Tatabánya to Pécs, across Budapest, the mayors complain that they have little or no information from the government, they do not reach the government's organs. The elected mayors of this country need a hotline. Until this happens, Hungarian people will be abandoned. I would ask you to improve the flow of information and to ensure the conditions of the local government to operate. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-06-229	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member István Simicskó, the notary of the Parliament, from the KDNP Group, has also applied for a post- Agenda address. It's an address. I give you the floor, Mr. Notary.
u2020-04-06-230	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would also like to welcome my truly persistent fellow Members with great respect. I would also like to say briefly about the epidemic situation, as this is the most recent problem in Hungary and the world today. Mankind's history was accompanied by wars, wars, natural disasters, epidemics. In the beginning, so-called shamans were appointed to preserve health, to keep the disease away, and to protect the community. The sick, the old, were cared for in blood, family, and clan bonds. When states were established, different cities were created and overcrowded. In this case, various types of epidemics were very common. Obviously, the lack of plumbing and drainage has caused these epidemics, but wars and other events have contributed to all of this. In the monasteries, sick rooms, infirmariums, in cities were created, the first charitable orders were formed that helped troubled, sick people, nursed them, and sought to regain their health. For the first time in Hungary in 1510 János Salzmann was employed by a doctor from Sibiu, which was used to protect his favorite city from the plague epidemic that was devastating in the area. Dear Parliament, A few decades ago, the plague caused by infectious diseases seemed to be on the way over the head of mankind, especially in developed countries. This was supported by objective facts, since an advanced drinking water network has been established, good quality drinking water is available to people in developed countries, vaccinations have been introduced, which have proved to be very effective, antibiotics have been discovered by doctors, pharmacists, and are still being used to combat very, very many diseases. However, in the last decade or two, infectious diseases and epidemics have been a problem again. The world has accelerated, and with it the spread of epidemics has accelerated. Let me just give you one example, Honourable Parliament: in 1347 during the great plague epidemic, the plague spread throughout the European continent, the major cities of Europe, over a period of about five years. It took five years for the plague to go through. What do we see today? We see that in a few months, in a few weeks, a new type of flu epidemic, the Covid-19, travels around the world, not just Europe, but the whole world, there is this devastating virus in 181 countries. This is part of globalisation, and we must also pay attention in the future to the rapid development of these types of epidemics. On the other hand, everything needs to be done and global cooperation will be needed in the future. The question, ladies and gentlemen, is that if we know that in the historical ages there are different dangers for humanity, peoples, nations, what we are responsible for today, what we can do with today's knowledge in order to ensure that Hungarian citizens, Hungarian society, are as safe as possible and truly guarantee their health as much as possible. What can the government do? What I see is that the government is doing everything it can to stop this epidemic, to stop it, and to keep as few people as possible infected and to heal as many people as possible. We have seen very serious efforts in recent days, in weeks, in time decisions have been made, and this is very right and should be supported. As individual Members with individual districts, what can we do, fellow Members? It's our responsibility, too. I used to say, quote the American example, that in the United States, they are proud to have built a very large and beautiful Statue of Liberty on the East Coast, and now they're talking in America about the need to build a statue of responsibility on the West Coast, because we have a responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, What I did in NewBuda, what I think a lot of others have done in your district, is that, yes, I've contacted a sister town in China, ordered 15,000 masks, they've arrived, we've started to distribute markets, pharmacies, convenience stores, and everywhere many people turn around. In fact, we will bring help to the house and that is what it is about, and that is why this speech has become the title of my speech. We help you with your shopping, we help you with mail checks. We continue this work every day. We also recruited helpers, activists, who also help us with our work. It is good to see the cooperation, to thank everyone who has been unselfish in helping people, the elderly, and in any way to help them in the future. Thank you so much for listening to me and for making me the last speaker today. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the opportunity.
u2020-04-06-231	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Thank you very much, fellow Member. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
