u2020-04-08-0	Dear Parliament, The 13th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Victor Vinnai and perhaps later Bence Tordai will help me. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, A number of general debates are taking place today. I would like to ask my fellow Members involved to remain in the Chamber, as far as possible in order to preserve the health of all of us, only the Members who have spoken in the debate and who are applying for two subsequent speeches. In order to facilitate this, the chair of the meeting shall inform them thereof. I also call on my fellow Members to leave the Chamber in order, as stated in the previously published Director-General's Information, if they no longer wish to participate in the debates. Dear Parliament, Coming up next - Article 50 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation The General Discussion of the Protocol amending Article 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation and its presentation on the publication of the Protocol amending Article 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation until its closure. Government referral T/9915. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr. Tamás Schanda, the author of the item on the agenda, the Secretary of State of the portfolio. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-04-08-1	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Please allow me to give you a brief presentation of the bill before us. But before that, I would like to briefly say a few words about the Convention on International Civil Aviation, which was signed in Chicago on 7 December 44 and, at the same time, the International Civil Aviation Organisation, which aims to adopt rules and standards on aviation safety and efficiency and to convey the cooperation of the participating States in all areas of civil aviation. Hungary acceded to the Convention in 1969, which was announced by Decree-Law No 25 of the year. Dear Parliament, The 39th General Meeting of the International Civil Aviation Organisation was held in Montreal in the autumn of 16th, in which a protocol containing amendments to the Chicago Convention was adopted. According to the amendment to the Chicago Convention, the number of members of the Board of International Civil Aviation Organisation is increasing from 36 to 40 and the number of members of the Air Navigation Committees of the International Civil Aviation Organisation is increasing from 19 to 21. Dear Parliament, In order to allow for the entry into force of the decisions adopted at this general meeting, it is necessary to adopt this bill. According to the relevant provisions, the mandatory scope of the protocols amending the Convention is recognised and published under the law in the case of our country. It is therefore necessary to adopt this law. Allow me to finally inform you that the International Civil Aviation Organisation has shown that 53 Member States have already ratified the Convention. If Mr President does not insist, I will finish the expedition and, if there are questions, I will try to answer them during the debate. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the adoption of the bill and the publication of its international protocols. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-04-08-2	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group; he will be followed by Mr Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-04-08-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, The International Civil Aviation Organisation is a specialised UN institution. As the bill says, it's a 76-year-old organization. It was signed in Chicago on 7 December 1944, as the Secretary of State said. The very important role played in the establishment of this convention was the need for the management of Europe's airspace after the landing in Normandy, even in a military way, but it was evident that it would be necessary in times of peace, and this was foreseen by the then Allied powers. The organisation is the top international civil aviation organisation at interstate level, which already had 193 Member States in 2019. This is the only global organisation that, by virtue of its regulatory and executive functions, primarily based on the cooperation of the Member States, ensures the highest level of overall security and protection of international civil aviation throughout the world. The aim of the organisation is to provide a safe background to international civil aviation and to assist its development through its specific instruments. It is important to encourage the continuous development of airports and flight equipment in order to enable air users to perform their tasks safely, efficiently and economically in different areas of air transport. In order to achieve these objectives, air transport operators in each Member State should operate and cooperate effectively, in particular by airlines, airports and air traffic service providers, subject to strict compliance with uniform rules. The present bill is Article 50 of the founding convention. It concerns the publication of protocols amending Articles 56 and 56 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. According to the previous amendment, the number of members of the organisation's council is increased from 36 to 40, as the number of participating Member States has increased significantly since its establishment. For the same reason as I said, the second protocol amends Article 56 by increasing the number of members of the Air Navigation Committee from 19 to 21, as Mr Secretary of State noted. The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-04-08-4	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, followed by Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, from the KDNP Group. You have the floor, Congressman. [[9.10]]
u2020-04-08-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment concerns the publication of the Protocol amending Article 50 (a) and Article 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation and the recognition of its scope. This was adopted on 6 October 2016 in Montreal, because it is the headquarters of the International Civil Aviation Organisation. The content of the amendment to Article 50 (a) is that the number of members of the Council is increased from 36 to 40. The number of the Council is therefore increasing. Obviously, this is because the number of members of this international organisation is constantly increasing. The content of the amendment to Article 56 shall be increased from 19 to 21 members of the Air Navigation Committee. As we have already heard, the Chicago Convention was established on 7 December 1944, which established the International Civil Aviation Organisation. It is one of the UN's specialised institutions, and it was established by 52 Member States in Chicago. In memory of this, as this convention was born on 7 December 1944, December 7th is the World Day of International Civil Aviation. Hungary was obviously unable to join the Convention in 1944 because of the conditions of war; it joined this Convention much later and then in 1969, which was legally declared accession to this Convention by the adoption of Decree-Law No 25 of 1971. So from now on Hungary is also a member of this organization. Why the Chicago Convention was established? I would like to quote from the document of 7 December 1944: "The future development of international civil aviation can greatly contribute to the creation and maintenance of friendship and understanding between the nations and peoples of the world. Furthermore, it is desirable to avoid friction and to promote cooperation between nations and peoples on which the world's peace depends. So obviously these are big words, but if you think about it, in December 1944 the world war was still in full swing, for example, Budapest was soon shut down, and the siege of the city had already taken place, so here to talk about world peace during this period, it was a very desirable thing to do with civil aviation. Main aspects of this agreement are the reason for its creation. Safe and regular development of international civil aviation, rational and economical conduct of international aviation, and ensuring equality of opportunity. And as the Treaty of 1944 also has a daily topicality, I would quote from Article 14, Article 14 of the Convention, which concerns the prevention of the spread of diseases:. The Contracting States are taking effective steps to prevent the spread of cholera, typhoid, smallpox, yellow fever, plague and other infectious diseases by aircraft. International health provisions applicable in air transport will be developed. So the importance of this convention in today's coronal virus control, for example, is clearly being applied in civil aviation to the aspects that this international organisation has formulated and is trying to update them on time, to modify them so that the most modern means of flying are safe, and to prevent the spread of diseases through aircraft traffic. Therefore, this organisation is one of the most important tasks of civil aviation's top interstate organisation, aviation safety and aviation security. Compliance with uniform and strict rules creates international standards and tender practices, which must be clearly respected by the Member States. There are currently 193 Member States. It sets out the most important rules for aviation areas in committees, so-called Annexes, appendices. The current second amendment, so the second part of the amendment, is about increasing the number of members of one of these committees, the Air Navigation Committee. Of course, this proposal is supported by Jobbik. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-08-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group, and say that the next speaker is Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-04-08-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Both my fellow Members and the Secretary of State have already said the substance of the bill before us. The bill on the International Civil Aviation Organization is being discussed at a time when more than half of the world's civil aircraft are on the ground and are not flying in the sad epidemic we are in. Obviously, air transport also suffers from this, and obviously the numbers that are increasingly alarming, coming from all over the world, how many flights have been cancelled, how many airlines have gone bankrupt, and how many crashes have occurred, are the sad facts that we can now see, in particular, the sad reality of the current bill. The International Civil Aviation Organisation is the only global organisation that, by virtue of its regulatory and executive functions, primarily ensures the highest overall level of safety and protection of international civil aviation throughout the world, based on the cooperation of Member States. The International Civil Aviation Organisation will make every effort to create a flight environment in which aviation safety and aviation security are at the highest level. In order to achieve these objectives, air transport operators in each Member State, especially airlines, airports and air traffic service providers, should operate and cooperate effectively while strictly complying with the uniform rules. To this end, the International Civil Aviation Organisation shall adopt and publish international standards and recommended practices on aviation safety, efficiency and regularity. I, like my better fellow Member, have noticed the point of disease and disease in which the organisation deals, and it is also given a high level of topicality that we can see what security measures have already been taken to prevent the epidemic in airports, airplanes, and how these regulations have been tightened since then, in which, obviously, the International Civil Aviation Organisation has made recommendations in this regard, and has dealt with the current epidemic situation. We are not too late to ratify the bill, although this is a technical bill, only because of the amendments mentioned above and listed by the Secretary of State, it is necessary to ratify the international treaty from the Hungarian part. The amendment to the Convention requires the ratification of 128 Member States, of which 53 have so far been ratified by the Member States. The Hungarian Parliament may be the 54th Member State, so we are not too late, but it is very important that if Hungary joins the amendment of the Convention, we will thus contribute to the objective of the international civil aviation profession, which will bring it closer to the international application of the desired professional amendments. In view of this, the KDNP fraction also supports it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-08-8	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, and to speak to Mr László Varju, lead speaker of the Democratic Coalition. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-08-9	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! Secretary of State told me the numbers very precisely, so I won't get involved. We know very well that Hungary did join the Chicago-based organisation in December 1944 in 1969, i.e. this Convention, and at the General Assembly of the International Civil Aviation Organisation between 27 September 2016 and 7 October 2016, it adopted the Protocol amending Article 50 (a) of the Convention and amending Article 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation. I think the most important changes are these numbers. One is that the number of members of the Council of Contracting States has increased from 36 to 40 and the other is the increase in the number of members of the navigation committee. [[9.20]] I believe, in any case, that the purpose of the bill is to publish those protocols signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016 amending the Convention, which I think is extremely important. Here I would like to thank the Foreign Minister of Hungary, who not only here in Parliament, but also at the Foreign Affairs Committee's meeting, very fairly informed me about how many Hungarians have arrived home. I must say, I would have been very pleased to have been informed in the same way about the economic package by the Minister of Economy. That's all I wanted to add, with Mr. President's permission. By the way, the Hungarian Socialist Party supports the bill. Thank you very much for your attention and for our support.
u2020-04-08-10	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the Democratic Coalition Group. Here you go.
u2020-04-08-11	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to point out that the proposal for a technical acceptance that is ahead of us is to be supported by the Democratic Coalition. That's what we usually do with international treaties. In the present case, we have a document that supports, supports, and is worthy and necessary to support solutions on international civil aviation, which are of particular importance and the essential content of cooperation between many countries, and which make it more efficient and safer. What is one part of the daily topicality that has already been said - that flying itself as an opportunity, in such a dangerous, epidemic-dangerous period, carries risks, and how much care must be taken. This has already been discussed, so I will not repeat this, but I would like to draw attention to domestic operations for two sentences. A few months ago, in Parliament, there was a lot of debate about the flight conditions in Hungary, the flight corridors. This focused on the inconvenience of the increased traffic over Budapest. Of course, such a person has an advantage and a disadvantage. In view of the disadvantages, we have suggested that changes be made in order to find another solution to flying over Budapest. At that time, the use of a new airport was also raised as a result of increased traffic. Now, unfortunately, because of the epidemic threat, we do not have the daily news of this, but I hope that the search for new opportunities will continue in the future, even because the service of many citizens arriving in Hungary for business purposes or as tourists is very important. I would therefore like to point out that there are also shortcomings that need to be addressed here, and that, in addition to the adoption of international treaties, we should not forget the domestic tasks. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-08-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. No one from my fellow Members has applied for a two-minute speech. I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[On the sign of Tamás János Schanda:]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-04-08-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, Thank you very much for the supporting comments and supporting positions. In response to the questions raised, I confirm that, of course, we are also addressing the airport issue and other issues. It is indeed the situation that is not part of the debate of this bill - that we are in a difficult time, because the number of civil flights has decreased everywhere in the world, so there are few flights in Hungary, and there are few flights to Ferihegy, and there may be no flights to Debrecen. And it can be said that, at times, significant efforts are needed to maintain transport related to freight transport in air transport, but this is working, and this is not a problem in Hungary. The question of airport development is indeed a priority economic issue, since we can see that the development of a regional airport can also cause serious economic potentials in the region. This is what we are working on, and this is what the government resolutions that have been issued in the last month or two are about to go in exactly the direction that the Member has indicated. Thank you again for what has been said in this debate, and thank you for the support of the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-08-14	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the development, implementation and financing of the Hungarian phase of the reconstruction project of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line will follow. Government referral T/9927. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-08-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, After the flight, let's switch to the railroad just to make sure that doesn't go away. The government also considers the creation of modern, competitive rail transport as a priority. Green rail should give the backbone of domestic transport and become an alternative mode of transport to individual transport. To this end, rail services should be developed that adapt to the needs of passengers, both innovative, sustainable and flexible. The basic condition for this is the continuous modernisation of railway infrastructure and vehicle stock. The rail network in Hungary is the fifth largest network of traffic in the European Union. On the nearly 7,700 km long railway section in Hungary, 2 million trains were operated in 2018, and 80 percent of them served passenger demand. 97 percent of 150 million passengers were domestic and Budapest's suburban traffic rose. As far as goods are concerned, 52,3 million tonnes of goods were transported, 70 percent of which were international, and three quarters were on a directional train. The government is determined to make domestic rail more connected to international networks, whether it is the internal rail connection of Central Europe or the transfer of goods from the Far East to Western Europe. Dear Parliament, The development of the railway network supporting domestic economic policy objectives not only covers suburban and long-distance passenger traffic, but also special attention should be paid to rail freight transport and logistics that ensure economic growth. The development of the Hungarian section of the Budapest-Belgrád 150 railway line serves this purpose, as it strengthens Hungary's role in international freight transport. Dear Parliament, Over the period between 2018 and 2023, we spend more than HUF 1700 billion on large railway investments in the EU and Hungary. We are renovating some 660 kilometers of railway, 200 kilometers of new sections, a new line or a second track, and electrifying some 440 kilometers of railway. [[9.30]] Hungary plans to spend at least the same amount of resources as the current envelope on railway investments of some HUF 1000 billion in the next EU budget period. The development of railways must offer suitable solutions both at home and at international level, and the coordinated development will make the rail lines across the countries of the region a major transit route for goods traffic between Asia and Europe. The attractiveness of the sector can be significantly enhanced by the modernization of the Budapest-Belgrád railway with Chinese involvement, which is a key part of the development of the two-track line. Dear Parliament, The European rail so-called TEN-T core network should be rebuilt by the Member States by 2030, according to the technical specifications for interoperability in the Union. The Hungarian section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line is a part of this core network, and it is therefore an obligation for Hungary to upgrade and expand its capacity. Within the framework of the planned project, the two-tracking will be completed, the licensing will be 160 km/h and the design speed will be 200 km/h, the axle load will increase from 210 kilonewtons to 225 kilonewtons, modern communication and train control systems will be installed, and stations and stops will be rebuilt and, of course, accessible. Dear Parliament, For Hungary, freight transport in Eurasian has an extraordinary potential for economic and industrial development. We can also benefit from freight traffic from Asia to Europe as a transit country, which contributes to the improvement of the performance of the Hungarian economy. With the development, we can become the number one logistics centre in the region, and with the renewal of the railway line Hungary will offer the fastest transport route for goods arriving from the East between the ports of Greece, especially Pireus and Western Europe. This decision is in line with the government's strategy for Eastern Opening announced in 2010, which is a priority country for China. Hungary was the first European country to conclude an intergovernmental cooperation agreement with China to facilitate the so-called "One Belt," a road initiative in 2015. The Budapest-Belgrád railway development project can therefore also be regarded as the flagship of a zone, a road initiative. Dear Parliament, An international agreement was concluded between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the People's Republic of China on the development, implementation and financing of the Hungarian phase of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line reconstruction project. The Convention is set out in Article XXIV of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article XXIV of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. by law in the Hungarian legal system. As part of the national core network railway path, the railway track and its related facilities, as well as the means necessary for the operation of the railway network, will be transferred to the exclusive property of the Hungarian State and to the management of the assets of the Hungarian State, in accordance with the Hungarian party's legislation in force. Following the entry into force of the Convention, MÁV Zrt. on the domestic part as specified therein. At the end of October 2016, the parties jointly established Chinese-Hungarian Railway Nonprofit Zrt., a joint venture, with a 15% share of the Chinese party's 85 percent share, in order to conduct the procurement procedure for the project tender and to carry out management tasks concerning the project. The purpose of the bill before you is to support and simplify the approval procedures of the authorities, to appoint responsible bodies acting within this framework, thereby reducing deadlines and significantly increasing efficiency. The measures significantly reduce the risks incurred during the planning and implementation of the project, increase the effectiveness of the work, preventing the emergence of significant loss times and ensuring that the tasks are managed. The bill is of particular importance for the acquisition of construction, environmental protection and other permits, and lays down specific procedural rules in the context of the project, including in official procedures, land formation procedures and other building procedures. The bill also provides for a guarantee of environmental protection, as it states that environmental protection and protection of natural areas should not be affected during the project's implementation. The investment is LIII of 2006 on speeding up and simplifying the implementation of investments of major importance for the national economy. It is considered to be an investment of particular public interest within the meaning of law and therefore subject to the specific rules applicable to investments of major importance. Dear Parliament, The bill effectively helps to achieve the objectives of the Convention, and to achieve the successful, timely development of the Hungarian section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. That is why I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-08-16	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. He will be followed in the line of speeches by Mr Ander Balázs, lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-08-17	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Here lies the bill on the development, implementation and financing of the Hungarian phase of the Budapest-Belgrád railway-rebuilding project. This is one of the most important railway development in our national economy and transport history since Monday, several oppositionists have been calling for the most damaging and wasteful investment in the coming years. If this law were human, he would have fled the country by now. I would like to highlight in my speech as Chief Speaker what a mistake it would be to give up on this matter, to give up on the chances of several decades of economic, social and environmental benefits offered by logistical development in the end result, and to give up on the complex economic and territorial development of a large area. Now, at the beginning, it should be clarified that the flow of logistics information, goods and materials between the starting point and the end point, which is created and moved by economic and consumer demand, is the job of logistics to fully meet this need. But logistics doesn't work without infrastructure, it doesn't work without the continuous and increasingly modern construction and development of infrastructure, which can move and compete with the economy, life and everyday life of a country, a community. Developing and providing this infrastructure for the economy and societies is primarily a state task and responsibility and, at best, an investment in the future. In Hungary motorways, airports, logistics centres, river ports, energy networks were built with public responsibility and burden, but this is how our railway lines are built. In today's modern age, logistics equipment systems have been further developed to meet new needs and intermodality has been born. The container goods arriving on the water are loaded with means of transport by rail or road or air, and are aimed, in Hungarian: the flagship and main driver of globalism has become maritime transport instead of politics. [[9.40]] Such an intermodal Corridor, which connects Europe between the north and the south, is one of the most important and has a serious future, its transport route is the Budapest-Kelebia railway line, built in 1882 with a hundred thousand MÁV lines, more commonly known as the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. This rail development goes far beyond geopolitical and neighbourhood policy, since its importance goes beyond Hungary and even virtually Europe, believing Hungary, as one of the decisive developments in opening up to all smart and pragmatic European states, China and Asia. Ladies and gentlemen, Here, in the debate of the Budapest-Belgrád railway law, we also need to see that maritime freight transport is one of the engines and maintainers of the world economy, so we need to know that shipments, non-bullying goods, arrive on the coasts of Europe, and about 95 percent of the goods arrive this way. We can't get ourselves out of this. It is a very important opportunity in such a development to see who is able, which country, which city, cities are able to think of the cities next to transit, in particular, to stop the mass of goods and increase their added value. In other words, which country has such infrastructure, the economic future and chances of the state and of those cities are greatly secured and increased. Hungary must therefore be placed in the position to have access to the 21st century. 21st century. With a century-old infrastructure that makes it inevitable in the world that is now completely changing. One of our answers to this challenge is the renovation of the 150 MÁV main line and the development of the world class. Dear House, The Budapest-Kelebia railway line was last renovated in 1968, the overhead line was drawn over the line between 1977-80, so exactly 40-43 years ago there was no major development on one of the most important rail Corridors of Hungary, Europe and Central Europe. That the XXI. In the 20th century, in 2020, a line that has not been developed for 43 years has not been wiped out by economic history, due to its location. Thus, the need for the development of one of the most undeveloped and worst-cased lines of the domestic and European core networks has also emerged as a demand from outside our borders, since the Red and Black Seas, transport ships from the Pacific and Indian Oceans reach the Greek Pyreus and Thessaloniki ports from the east as quickly as possible to Europe, which means that the state of the railway line today is worse than it was when it was opened in 1882 - but the fastest way to the north is through Belgrade, through Kelebia and Budapest. If we don't want this project, we have a long detour, but we can build and renovate a line from Belgrade to Zagreb. In other words, we have an alternative, it can be played, but the great advantage is that in the Mediterranean it is the shortest way to the central and northwest regions of Europe through us and thus the fastest way. Two tracks will be built between Budapest and Belgrade. The axle load of the line is 22.5 tonnes, the speed of 160 km/h, the state-of-the-art safety devices, the renovated, accessible railway stations and railway stations are all part of the project. During the debate, the main focus is on the return on investment, as opposition rhetoric in the context of the law will be the same, according to my calculations. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, the railway development between the eastern and western parts of Hungary and the south-western parts of Hungary continues between Záhony, Debrecen, Miskolc, Békéscsaba, Szolnok, Székesfehérvár, the region of Lake Balaton, Nagykanizsa, but between the north and the south, between North and South Hungary there have been no significant, periodical developments in recent decades. Ethnic development is taking place, as we are facing one of the central development of the opening of the world economy to the eastern world, and the world's largest and most modern rail infrastructure developments are currently taking place in China, where they have Japanese, French, German knowledge and quality. The development will be significant, because we are building one of the fastest railway lines in Central Europe. Of course, you may rightly ask why we are not building TGV or ICE-Siemens lines in Hungary. This is a legitimate question, but we should ask our European friends why they didn't come forward, even though they had the opportunity, because they knew our needs, they knew that we wanted to build, and they knew that we needed resources. You can also ask Péter Medgyessy the question, because he promised in 2003 that we would travel with TGV through Vienna to Paris and down to Bucharest. As he went, I had this big project dream, even though I'm a big fan of TGV lines and speed. Dear House, The renewal of the Hungarian economy after the pandemic cannot be imagined without the renewal of the infrastructure. It is in our interest to strengthen our transit role between the East and the West, and to reap most of its benefits. So the payback, as I've already mentioned, I'd like to get started. Who will ask in the room which transport infrastructure in Hungary was recovered and when the XIX. In the middle of the century, the Budapest-Vác railway line opened in 1846 and the others returned after their opening and construction? Tell me, did the Freedom Bridge, the Elizabeth Bridge, the M7 motorway, and the Kőröshegy Valley Bridge pay off financially? Based on the primary rate of return, these improvements are essentially never recovered in their state of construction. But on the second, third and fourth levels of the national economy, and also on the tax revenue of these levels, we can certainly talk about return and usefulness, because without these and similar developments, we would never have crossed the ranks of modern countries, and we would still be in a medieval state, if our leaders had considered this question to be the most important. If István Széchenyi based the construction of the Chain Bridge on this, it would never have been built, but he knew that it meant the end and down of Pest-Buda, if our first bridge in the Danube had not been built and how right he was, we know. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The return, in my own sense, will not even take place in the process of indirect primary or secondary tax revenues and job creation, but our concept of the national economy is that Hungary will be a significant factor on this transport axis, corridor or Corridor, who likes it, for 30-40-50 years. Thanks to this, Hungary will be more attractive to domestic and foreign capital for 30-40-50 years, but more importantly, Hungary will be even stronger within this period, the Hungarian economy will be strengthened even more significantly, at such a level that the Budapest-Belgrád main railway line will be one of the basic infrastructures for domestic capital investments abroad and abroad. It is also a fact that this railway not only opens up to China, but also opens to the Gulf countries, the whole Arab world, the Red Sea, the Mediterranean, Australia, India and the more developed regions of East Africa, but also opens to the Balkan states. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, At the end, I left one of the most important and very often forgotten green policy cards, our removal from road transport and freight. You know that in connection with our current motorways, the M5, M0 and M1 are relentlessly driving 40-50-60 thousand vehicles a day across the country. The incredibly huge truck traffic from Greece and the Balkans is drowning Hungary and Budapest. In this transit traffic, our networks are still in position, but they are under such a strain that we will no longer be able to absorb the additional increase of this. It is true that there could be two more three-, four-, two- and five-track motorways, M0 could be built four times this size, it would still be full, but it would not be cheaper to develop them, but it would be much more expensive and the most burdensome for our environment, and for our health, these capacity-enhancing motorway developments would be the most dangerous. The railway development to Budapest-Belgrád and finally Pireus, the resulting intermodal, modern and fast transport route, in the next 20 years, for 30 years, must direct the transport needs and the resulting traffic growth to the M150 railway line. This will be the common financial and transport interest of Budapest and Belgrade, in Hungary, the main railway line M150 is not primarily built and renewed to base its operation on express-speed passenger transport, so that the current MPs of Kiskunhalas, Kiskőrös, can quickly, comfortably and safely get to Parliament in 70-50 minutes, but to ensure the delivery of tens of millions of tons of goods between north and south, and to use their revenues and national economy to increase the country. Dear House, Mr President, The Government of Hungary made a good decision when it also voted for and decided on the construction and renovation of the Budapest-Belgrád main railway line. The Fidesz fraction supports the bill and asks the other factions and fellow Members to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-08-18	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Ander Balázs, the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik, and to speak to Mr András Aradszki, lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman. [[9.50]]
u2020-04-08-19	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I would have preferred that if the petitioner of this outrageous bill had been sitting here, he would have taken the fall, so to speak, not you, of whom I cannot believe, by the way, that he believes in this whole mad project. Anyway, let's see. Secretary of State, you said just now that the domestic 7700 kilometers of railway network has spent 1700 billion forints on reconstruction over the past few years. Let's subtract this 150-mile section from this 7700-mile radius. There are 7550 kilometres of railway tracks in Hungary, to which this 1700 billion HUF was spent. Now, by magnitude, I would actually spend half of this amount on just 2 percent of the domestic track length. I cannot accept that this would be a rational step, even if I believed my colleague from Bánya, who painted this line as if it were actually extending to the whole world, to the solar system, to the universe, and even to live with the words of my fellow Member Stummer, it would be a kind of gate, a wormhole to the whole universe, and then all the goods from the entire universe would be involved in this, which would be transported. I don't know who my fellow Members think is stupid there, in the pro-government benches, but I would suggest that the Hungarian people, with the Hungarian taxpayers' money, should not play with this sum of up to a thousand billion forints. At present, this project lacks two things: transparency and transparency would be encrypted for ten years on the basis of Zsolt Semjén's proposal - and on the other hand guarantees and guarantees from the business partner in writing. Where does the Chinese party guarantee that the increase in trade in goods will reach the level in which this project will ever bring its price in? The experts say it would take, say, 2,000 years. It's so nonsense, it's like [[Gábor Bányai intervenes.]] Yes, yes, my dear fellow Member, he will press the button, and then he will tell you his own - so it is as nonsense as if we were going back to the Roman era, I will do it when Augustus took Pannonia, and here the Romans built roads and bridges, and that would come back at some point. It's crazy. Especially in a situation where we don't see the end of an emergency, we don't even feel the economic damage, and then, in this situation, you would burn up a thousand billion forints. And why do I say a thousand billion forints? Zalaszentiván-Szombathely railway electricity. You will not guess who was the handyman of all things, the master of the Mekk of Hungary, who was also active there, and this project is indeed 40 percent more expensive than the original ideas. Or should I bring up the South Balaton railway development? It's a very good thing, but the dirty thing about it was that an extra 25 billion had been added to it. Where will it end? Where does it end, if you can't look into the documents, people who want to see this because you're encrypting it? We cannot congratulate Viktor Orbán on his Easter gift, because it is possible to understand this as a 1/1 field table. Prime Minister and Zsolt Semjén are now taking a step forward, and then they want to use the small railway road in the High Railways, the model they saw there, and I must say that the one experienced there, let us say, will try to achieve efficiency and effectiveness here with the money of the Hungarian people. They brought up an accusation that we were against the railroad. If there is a party here in Parliament, which is not anti-rail, we are also on the side of Jobbik, but reasonable. When almost half a hundred domestic wing lines were closed around 2007, we protested even though we had not yet been to Parliament. Then we expressed our criticism when you, although promised before the change of government, did not restart traffic in most of these lines. Let's see if we can get a little work done and not take the Tallai András warnings, so let's just do the job. Let me ask you, what will happen to the Kiskőrös-Kalocsa line, that 35 kilometers? They're reopening it? Here's your promise, and you'll be on the record. What about the 49 kilometers of the Kunszentmiklós-Tass-Dunapataj line? They're reopening it? What about the 40-mile section of the Philippines-Kecskemét? They're gonna reopen it? I'm gonna ask you, why would that be necessary? So if you really want this 150 line to make some sense, or at least more use than it has ever been, and use this kind of resources to do so, then it would be good to integrate the transport system in the region, and it would be good if the lines that once had it worked again. So if you can promise me that, you may be a little more beautiful about this whole thing, but the key would be integration, which we don't know anything about, how those intermodal centers, terminals, they're gonna work out here along the line. Will you be on this line with an integrated, rhythmic schedule, like the Kunszentmiklós-Tass-Budapest perspective, if you look at it? Then the question could also be raised: if you want to improve the railway, I would like to refer once again to the previous proportions, the terrifying and completely inexplicable disproportionateness that is shown in this whole project - you have no idea that there could be another direction. I'm not saying they can't improve that. But then a Kecskemét-Szeged line didn't even come up? [[Gábor Bányai: With such a detour?]] Yes, with such a detour, my dear fellow Member of the Mines. And what is the number of daily paid passengers on this line, line 150? Show me a number. Five thousand! How many people cross the border at Kelebia's? 300 to 400 people a day? Is that why you have to put a thousand billion forints into all this? ! That's why [[Interviews from Fidesz: Not for this!]] for [[Noise.]] In order for your Chief Strokeman to continue to grow? ! [[Defiance from the Fidesz ranks.]] You can laugh at that, it's just that you've already received 300 billion forints, the RM International Ltd. has won it. Wouldn't this money have somewhere else to be? We say that, yes, there would be, especially in a situation that Hungary is now in. We do not understand why this line costs up to HUF 5 billion per kilometer. They cannot explain why the most expensive railway in the world will be built here, in Hungary, in this section, in an lowland section. [[Gábor Bányai says no.]] Why are you shaking your head, Member? Look at the numbers. What are you talking about? [[Gábor Bányai: I didn't say that.]] Yes, you can. I'll give you an example. Look, if, say, from the Mercedes CLA-200, which is 4 meters 63 centimeters long, they put 216 pieces right behind each other, it's gonna come out a kilometer. The base of this car is 13 million forints. You could put this line out there and back, because that's what a normal mile would cost. They cannot explain why it is necessary to burn this money on this project, apart from the need to pay tribute to the new farmer, say, China, and to further increase the well-selected baby balls. We're not going to accept this, and we can say this whole insane investment that it would be best to tear it apart and throw it in the paper basket, at least in this condition. Now, if you can't party by saying you're anti-rail, then that's Jobbik. I said that we have always spoken in order to preserve the wingslines, and they should also be improved. But if you have such a narrow source, my fellow Members, you simply cannot explain the reason why one of the domestic railway lines should be so disproportionately highlighted, and this money should be wasted. The other is encryption. You've learned the axiom of Coca that says frogs don't get asked if they drain the swamp. It looks like the frogs shouldn't get involved now, they shouldn't know anything, and then the Tsar Father decides how to pull this line, where to go, what to do with the details. As the historical anecdote used to say in Russia, when Tsar Father got tired of arguing with experts, and supposedly one of his fingers snuck into the map, took a ruler, drew the line, and there was a slight warp. Or why the Moscow subway turned out like that? Stalin said he put his coffee cup on the map. [[10.00]] They didn't ask me anything, they didn't ask me anything. Because. Because that's what they decided. The thing is, it doesn't work that way in a normal country, or it shouldn't work that way. If environmental reasons are identified and the proposal for a greenhouse gas bill is discussed later today, then it should be seen that transport is responsible for about half of the carcinogenic and toxic pollutants that come into the environment. In Hungary, I would perhaps give you some truth about two thirds of the total quantity of goods transported by road, the negative externalities of which are huge: emissions of pollutants, not energy-efficient, and we had not yet talked about accidents. So the railway could indeed be developed, as could be developed, let's say domestic shipping, the 3-4 percent of that could be further worked out, but not at this price, at the price of projects that are not overpriced. And my fellow Members, especially there in the pro-government benches, have been this madness since the autumn of 2013, when the Eastern Central European states and China in Bucharest sat down with each other and planned that this railway line would be implemented. Since then, we keep saying that we don't see the guarantees, we don't see the Chinese promise that will bring back the price of this at some point. And if you take the trouble to look at the latest surveys of KSH, you will see that while imports from China to Hungary amounted to HUF 1450 billion in 2017, our exports amounted to HUF 735 billion, which, by 2019, deteriorated in such a way that products were imported into Hungary from China worth HUF 2000 billion, while our exports decreased from the previous HUF 735 billion to 480 billion. There's a HUF 1500 billion deficit! Where are the promises and impact studies that would give a guarantee that this will not grow any longer, and what might come from the access charges, so to speak, at customs, will not pass ten times that time, and will not the Hungarian people pay for your monomaniac insistence on this project? Yes, it would indeed be appropriate, my fellow Member, Bányai, to refurbish the 150 line; we also know that this was one of the first domestic lines to be electrified in 1910, to be built into two tracks, and then Trianon came along, and because of Trianon it was finished. But once again, Minister of State, I really cannot believe that you believe and confess that this project will bring in its price at any time, and for the Hungarian people in the form that it was presented here, it will generate profit and profit. We don't believe in it. We do believe, however, that the share of environmentally friendly forms of transport should increase among the modes of transport here in Hungary. The 2011 EU Transport White Paper also contains provisions on this. It is no coincidence that every year I myself presented the amendments to the budget that would have improved intermodal transport in Hungary, which always went to the trash can, even though it was your fault, dear fellow Members of the Fidesz 2012 that was the year of RoLa's execution. Rollende Landstraße was about how trucks and containers could be transported to Hungary in a much more environmentally friendly and energy efficient way. Otherwise, it would be nice to have been forced to resurrect this sector rather than this thousand-billion-dollar madness. My time is up. I think I asked some questions, which would be very useful if the Hungarian people had an answer. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-08-20	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr András Aradszki, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group, and announce that the speech will be followed by Mr László Szakács, lead speaker of the MSZP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-08-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The T/9927 ahead. The bill on the development, construction and financing of the Hungarian section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which deals with the reconstruction, investment and financing of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, can be said to mean the adoption of a last legislative act, which I hope will start in 2015, when Hungary and the People's Republic of China concluded an international agreement on the construction of this railway line from Chinese credit within the framework of the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, and given that it is an existing railway line, the renovation of which is covered by Article XXI. It will be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the 20th century. This convention was incorporated into the legal order by the Hungarian Parliament in 2016, and it is now part of the Hungarian law, the Hungarian law. The preparation of the investment has been launched, the organisations that have ensured the implementation and execution of the investment in accordance with the Convention have been set up, and accordingly we have come to the conclusion that the selected contractor has completed and signed an investment agreement, rather called the EPC Treaty, which assumes a turnkey transfer in connection with the renewal of the line. I think it is important to underline that the justification of this project, in addition to the fact that, as many people said, the last renovation in the 1970s, proves that the European Union considers this line to be an important corridor for interoperability in the TEN-T system, and this is also in line with the interests of Hungary. It is in line with the Hungarian interests because the Hungarian transport infrastructure is primarily bordering the east-west, i.e. for historical reasons, developments have been made in the east-west over the past decades, over the past 50 years. It is very important to be able to travel in a similar way, to carry out our logistics tasks in the same way as the countries of Western Europe, which are even more advanced than we are, where there is a highly sized, very fragmented and economically and otherwise well-following and generally accessible rail logistics road system, including the density of border crossings. On the other hand, North-South interoperability in Eastern Europe is very low, and these opportunities are not only small in number, but also unconventional. The common goal of the Visegrád countries is to eliminate this unilateral dependency in the North-South and the unilateral development of this interoperability by the north-south. But we must also add that this interoperability is important not only for the Visegrád countries, but also for the Western Balkans, because, hopefully, many of the Western Balkan countries will join the European Union in a relatively short period of time, and their connection to the European economy, the European logistics system, the European rail network is of great importance for Hungary. [[10.10]] It is also of great importance for Hungary to be able to play this role, this helping role in integration, and to implement it in a manner appropriate to the Hungarian economy, the interests of Hungary. I must also add that the starting point that will be part of this railway line will hopefully be the port, the port of Pyreus and the port of Thessaloniki, which are currently in Greece in an area where there has been major logistical developments in recent years. It is enough to point out, for example, the heightened and prominent role of this region in terms of energy supply. So the area in which this railway line ends, from which this railway line will start, is a very important region of the European Community, which also plays an important role from an economic point of view. In addition, I must say that it is a reasonable, reasonable decision and appropriate to the interests of Hungary if Hungary can develop this North-West Corridor with its own tools. There is no doubt that we could argue, and rightly so - whether the business model created by the Hungarian government and the relevant Chinese organisations through the agreements is the best. I am saying that we could argue because there is no other solution to the implementation of this project. As has been said and said before me, when the structure was established, the decision to implement this project, i.e. to renew the Belgrade-Budapest railway line, did not appear during the bidding procedures for investors who could do so in Western Europe, investors who could benefit from the support of this project. This is how Chinese-Hungarian Railway Nonprofit Zrt. could develop. conduct the execution of this case, of this project, and be responsible for ensuring that it is carried out properly, objectively and in accordance with the contract. There is a big debate about when this railway investment will be repaid. Indeed, for such investments, the kind of return requirement that applies in a business model is not, or can only be, interpreted in this case. This is typically a logistical investment whose indirect benefits can be enjoyed and reached by Hungarian citizens through the Hungarian economy and through the Hungarian budget. A typical example of this is the development of motorways, which in itself, if you look at the development of tolls, if you add the continuous maintenance costs, it would be difficult to pay back if you were to count the returns according to the usual business models. On the other hand, by getting the goods to consumers, these consumers are able to pay for this goods, this consumption becomes tax revenues, with these tax revenues it is possible to finance health, defence, education and any other such thing. One example of this is that without the motorway, the success of the EKAER, the tax system used for the carriage of goods, could not work. Therefore, the possibility of a return must be assessed in this respect, and it can be seen that it is likely that in the long term the return on this project will be fully ensured. The bill itself contains three elements. On the one hand, it states that this investment is of particular importance for the national economy and, on the other hand, decides to establish specific rules for the investment and lays down rules for the management of assets and property management related to the closure of the project. In these rules, the Christian Democratic People's Party does not see such a special problem, it is a normal closure of the project, a normal application of investments of major importance for the national economy, without which the project cannot be implemented effectively, effectively and within the deadline. As I have just said, it is in our common interest that the Belgrade-Budapest railway line should be implemented as soon as possible within the budget, because this is a very beneficial and important investment for the national economy. I must also add that environmental aspects have been mentioned in the previous speakers, and I can confirm that the development of the railway has taken place in Hungary in the last ten years, or there are developments in progress that ensure the use of the railway for the economy in a modern and environmentally friendly way. It is clear and clear that rail transport is one of the most advantageous modes of transport for the environment. In terms of so-called greenhouse gas emissions, in terms of climate protection, what benefits we have from the development of the railway line and the transfer of transport to the railway, it is clear, even on the basis of the fact that transport is the largest emission of pollutants in addition to energy production. In the event that this transport is not carried out by motor vehicles but by rail to a greater extent, it is extremely useful for climate emissions and helps us to meet Hungary's climate targets for 2050 and its climate targets for 2040. So, on the whole, I think that this is the step of legislation, that the bill before us is adopted by the Hungarian Parliament, both in terms of economic and economic policy, revenue, and in terms of investment that is good for climate protection, and also in terms of supporting and promoting the integration of the Balkan countries into the framework of the European Union, it considers it useful, so the Christian Democratic People's Party will support the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-08-22	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Szakács, the lead speaker of the group of the MSZP; and to speak, Mr László Varju, lead speaker of the Democratic Coalition. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-08-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, I would like to relate to a sentence of my fellow Member in Aradsk as a starting thought: this could be debated. But I can't, it's encrypted. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] It's gonna be encrypted. We can now argue that the terms of this contract or this entire tender should be encrypted or encrypted. There's been a lot of talk about payback. You probably talked to a lot of experts then, but you didn't talk to Mihal Varga either. Many experts have said that about 2,400 years is the return of this. Mihály Varga said that if it works very well, and otherwise we can connect it much better to the goods trade, 130 years. That's what your minister said, 130 years is the return on this investment. Obviously, then you're starting to think of what Mihály Varga said. It is not worth linking or comparing to the maintenance of motorways and the return of motorways. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Well, obviously. The president's ringing the bell.]] Really. Then the tolls, the excise duty, which is built into the fuel price, which must be used to improve and maintain the roads, the tolls to be paid, and the rest, so you will take all of this out of these calculations. [[10.20]] And yes, the construction of the east-west corridor, the construction of the M9 motorway, has been waiting for 11 years. These are just the things I wanted to respond to briefly. When Mr Secretary of State said that he would serve the comfort of Hungarian passengers, I was almost happy, and then my fellow Member Bányai yelled at me when one of the better Members spoke that he was not fit to transport passengers, or that this would not be built for that, and that is not what these investments would do. I was about to go crazy, too, because on a Hungarian average railway network from Baranya to Tolna, from Komló to Dombóvár, a transfer from Mindszentgodisa can be reached in an hour and 20 minutes, on a 35 km road. I also thought that this might already be part of the railway development concept, and it turned out that it was not, that this is the idea of railway development that we are going to borrow from China, because this is also revealed in addition to encryption from this bill or from this proposal, which is now before us. Fifteen percent of the resources are paid by the Hungarian party, and 85 percent of the remaining ones were honestly listened to, and the Hungarian Ministry of Finance also submitted a request for credit to the Chinese Export-Import Bank. Well, that's why payback is important. We build this on credit. You're building this on credit. Not just anyone, obviously. It seems that economic recovery in this crisis is very important to one or two people. We always turn back to the same place, because Lőrinc Mészáros' interests appear here, and obviously no partner in Western Europe has been able to make an appropriate offer, only a Hungarian person, only a Hungarian person who is called Lőrinc Mészáros, will spend the money that the Hungarian government will finance from credit, and the Hungarian government will finance it from Chinese credit. And in this way, I believe that it is fundamentally against the interests of the Hungarian people, not the construction itself, but the fact that they are building on credit; not that we want to be a logistics centre in trade, but that we want to do this on credit; not that we need to develop the economy, but that it is that it is going to be an oligarch again, and that it is getting to an oligarch from credit again. It is in the interest of China, which is a thousand-year-old state planning the next one or two thousand years, and the interests of Hungary are completely different, which can plan for the next year, or even a few months, at this moment, without introducing the economic recovery package in Parliament, but only in the press. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Tomorrow is a committee meeting!]] We will be at the committee meeting again tomorrow, thank you very much, and we will listen to it, but first the press will be informed and then Parliament will be informed. So, if this is a very important investment, and you could provide the Hungarians with so much good, so many excellent results, about which Mr. State Secretary spoke, then you would be happy to do so, and transparently, transparently, not encrypted, so that all Hungarians would be happy to do so, because we are looking forward to a fantastic development. And once again, our problem is not whether we want to be a logistics centre or not; of course we do. Our problem is not that Hungary deals with China; everyone deals with China. Why is it encrypted? Why are they doing it on credit? And how did you choose the nation's gas mechanic, who now can build much better trains and railways than TGV, because they didn't show up? Buddy capitalism and encryption seem to be dating in this regard, even though we are hearing a lot about trust in this Parliament right now. Trust, honourable Members, is not usually achieved by encryption. Transparency would be even more important than the construction of credit, as the return would be very important for such an investment, so that we at least look at what it is for the Hungarian people sooner or later, at least how much it will cost the Hungarian people at the end of the day. What we see is that this investment is not part of XXI. It brings the infrastructure of the century to Hungary, or even if it does, only in a very small part, and the Hungarian people will not have access to it. What we see is that the Hungarian people will have access to one thing, this is the repayment of the loan. The Hungarian people will have access to this, along with the fact that I would quote the Prime Minister here, who always says that we should not spin the Hungarian economy on credit. But look, it's in the interests of the Hungarians what you're doing. ? Now they've borrowed from Russia, and it's built on Paks II. The Budapest-Belgrád railway line is being built from China. The Hungarian workers were issued to Western multinational companies with the slave law. What else do you decide? Instead of you, the Eastern and Western financial world will decide for you, and multinational companies will decide for you, and you will slavishly implement it without further ado, even then... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's what an MSZP says.]] But you took these loans, and you're making these investments that you're doing - even if you're going to compare the railway of Lőrinc Mészáros to Széchenyi's chain bridge. Let us feel all the difference between the two, how the largest Hungarian and one of the largest Hungarian gas mechanics' railway lines are compared to each other! It was also about climate protection. I think it is very right in this regard that they will be able to achieve at least this one. Still, I think that he's waiting for clarification as to why we're taking on Chinese credit for this. What is Hungary's share of the business compared to this? What kind of income-generating capacity does it have, besides serving the Chinese partner? And, of course, how long will it take us to pay for this? It's been encrypted for ten years, I suspect, for ten years, in this respect. These are the questions that, once again, we are not seeing clearly. Perhaps I can even say that we do not have our problems with the goals to be achieved. Of course, let there be an east-west corridor as far as Belgrade is east of Budapest. Let's make it an east-west corridor. Of course, let's have a logistics centre, and of course we are very happy if it will make the Hungarian people better of their lives. But all we've seen so far is that on the basis of classified contracts, on credit, with a lot of credit, Lőrinc Mészáros will build something not for Hungarians, because Hungarians cannot travel on this railway, as he says... [[Nacsa Lawrence: What do you mean, no? Gábor Bányai: I didn't say that.]] You said it yourself, my dear fellow Member. [[Gábor Bányai intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] My fellow Member, I am sure that if you press a button and ask for a word, I will ask for it again. You said you weren't planning on transporting passengers, so you weren't going to the Hungarians... [[Gábor Bányai: I didn't say that.]] I heard it. Mr President, I would like to ask: will this debate become a dialogue? [[Gábor Bányai: Sorry.]]
u2020-04-08-24	Go on, Congressman.
u2020-04-08-25	Thank you very much. So let's do it again: on Chinese credit Lőrinc Mészáros will build a railway that Hungarians will not use very much. Just as at the Paks Nuclear Power Plant, you will expose Hungary to the Russian loan, you will place Hungary on the Belgrade-Budapest railway line to the Chinese loan, as Hungarian workers have been given to Western multinational companies under the slave law. Hungary's sovereignty is limited as much as possible, and I have to say that you are slowly not going to make any decisions here, and you will also see that, please, the person who pays the musician, the Chinese, the Russians and the Western European multinationals are going to limit Hungary's economic space at the exact time when it should be increased. [[10.30]] A closing thought: in this period, when there is an economic emergency, when four thousand people are losing their jobs every day you say so - in twenty days Hungarian unemployment will double, indeed, as a piece of bread, Mr. Secretary of State, we need a good secret contract and a good Chinese loan that we have to discuss today, it certainly could not wait, and it will not be possible for Lőrinc Mészáros to do so, and in circumstances that are special, we will not have to control the permits, we will not have to verify what he did on what basis. I think that if they could invest in the interests of the Hungarian economy in a transparent way, building trust, we could support that which we cannot support. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-08-26	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, leader of the Democratic Coalition. The next speaker was Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-08-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I don't think he's gonna get away with it. If you have already been appointed to discuss this outrageous bill here, and you have been appointed to defend it, let's just say, pull yourself together, please, and do us a favor and try to tell us at least what you have said so far. Two, don't be surprised if we repeat the basic numbers and repeat them again, because you've been working on a project for years now, because this story has actually already been encrypted, and you've already covered it up, and I'm going to do a little legal reflection to that end - and you're giving me little information about it. There is no way to get away with this, because one sane argument so far in the case of concrete implementation could not really be raised. Let me just say that when I approach a case like this, I try to find answers to at least six questions and examine what you are doing through it. These six questions begin with what you really want. However, I have to say to Mr State Secretary that what he said in his introduction that, by the way, efficiency, rail safety, or the role of the environment, he has canceled the general items which any party would like to support. The problem then follows when we look for the answer to the question of how they want to achieve the goals that they are doing to achieve either a faster transport or a safe transport. Now, we immediately realize that what they have done so far has been amended seven times, by the way, there is a decree by the Ministry, which has been published in this case, and there are 13 government decisions that are already preparing it, or making it possible to predict that I will spend around a thousand billion forints on this project. There is a thousand billion forints to talk about, but the question I have asked in this matter and the secretary of state that I am looking for... because one of the elements of these cited or mentioned questions, legal background is that Minister Palkovic has been appointed as the Commissioner of the Government, to whom this must be carried out. Among these decisions, there are also specific expenditures from which you think that construction can actually start. We have probably come close to this if you have now decided that Hungarian people have nothing to do with this, while you are spending a thousand billion forints of public money and you want to encrypt it. So much so, I am going to mention this to you, because while I have just mentioned that the Minister is responsible for this, but the resolution that has appointed the Minister is already in place, or it is included in the resolution that the Prime Minister is in charge of the Government Commissioner's activities, the Government Commissioner's activities are not supported by a secretariat, he is carrying out the activities of the Government Commissioner without remuneration, and this decision has been put into effect with immediate effect, otherwise, a good year ago. So the Minister doesn't need anything to do this job, the only thing that the Prime Minister needs to control. And the first such guidelines have arrived, encrypting the whole thing as they are, it has nothing to do with the Hungarian people's interests and the circumstances under which you use this thousand billion forints. So the first part of the answer to how is that the Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, under direct management, spends a thousand billion forints, which has already been dedicated to who is using it. That is because, according to your statement, or according to the news published in the press, the loan that you have published is 750 billion forints, which you are taking up, which requires a further 15 percent Hungarian share, unless you want to take it or add it, and if you count the interest, it starts from a minimum of 880 billion forints and goes up, depending on how you look at it from the exchange rate side. Now, let's not even raise that problem. So, overall, we can say that then every citizen will pay at least HUF 100,000 to get the freight traffic and the goods that are so important to you to travel faster at 163 kilometers. It is so important that it is also a definite goal that one end point of this development is needed here at BILK, as at one end point in Budapest - the Chinese have already bought themselves into the Budapest Intermodal Logistics Centre, and the other end is the port of Pyreus, which is also, if I am aware, a Chinese port. Now, the two need to be connected nicely, and the Hungarian Prime Minister has taken a role in this, or he will guarantee that the Hungarian part will be built. Serbs are hardly able to do anything else, because they are not able to obtain European funds as a European Member State. Hungary could have obtained it, since I would have said that one of the most important developments of the European Union is about railway development, and in order to reassure Mr State Secretary, I am not talking about anti-rail development policy, and I want to remind you that in the strategic concept that was drawn up earlier during the Prime Ministership of Ferenc Gyurcsány, four areas need to be developed in this area, and Hungary, when it has such external support, must be guided in this direction, and this is the health industry, the automotive industry, alternative energy and logistics. Logistics investments and related road and rail developments, I think, are in Hungary's interest closed by parentheses - but as you do, this has nothing to do with this. So they are talking about connecting two points of the Budapest and Pyreus ports. The 2,400 years have been calculated by you, and I have not gone any further than this, and one of your favourite newspapers, the Watcher, has contributed to this calculation: in 2400 years, this investment will be repaid according to your vision. [[10.40]] So we can safely say that there is hardly any argument why Hungary needs the construction of the Belgrade-Budapest railway, but the Chinese party is all the more interested in it than I said, but it is in his interest. Then I only have one more question: why do Hungarian people have to pay for these interests? This story cannot be so exciting that they want to create the opportunity to steal money through it, even if it is so important to you, and over the years they have proven that nothing is expensive so that, by the way, you can skim everything you can from overpriced investments. And for that, Mr. Secretary, you will also be responsible. You have just said that, in essence, what this railway development costs, you spend so much money on the economic rescue package caused by the crisis: HUF 1300 billion in order to keep hundreds of thousands of Hungarian businesses and jobs. Less than that, a piece of railway has been put on a railway line, and it will probably give everyone a job, but I won't even say that. It is impossible what you have launched in this regard. I understand, and I know that what I'm about to say is at the same time critical of the fact that they want to encrypt their earlier decision and all their decisions that have been made and will be made in the next period, and hide them from the people. Well, that's why we're telling you that the word of the Democrats can't be interpreted at all, and you have nothing to do with it. There is no economic interest in democracy that would override transparency in this regard. You take the money of the Hungarian people out of the budget and use it in such a way that they steal a lot of money from it, and I did not add that Hungary could receive it from external sources and from EU support, and otherwise for real railway development, which would make much more sense at the 7700 kilometres you mentioned. The deal is clearly teeming with corruption elements, while Hungary has almost no use for it, I would like to sum up the scope I have just said to you. And I didn't mention at the time that, by the way, until 2020, all the other transport developments were spent on HUF 1200 billion, and now they're going to spend it on a single railway line. The possibility of spending should be thanked the European Union, because it gave them the necessary resources to do so. For the rest of my time, I would like to mention one more thing, and that is the urban impact. So you don't expect to draw a line, or to be exact, you already have the trail, and the trail doesn't have one and not two settlements that pass through. It makes sense, doesn't it, for this railroad and the 160 and 200 kilometers, if the train doesn't stop or if it stops, then the time gain will not be achieved. For this reason, I think they will rather try to enforce interests which are not supported by any economic item. If there is substantial freight transport on this line, and in these, let's say, livable settlements, where there is a railway stop where the train is coming, the roaring freight trains will now pass, if a little of what you say is true. So, when are these settlements going to be able to live? Feel free to go out to Dunavarsány and see where this train will cross over there. Near the houses, a few meters from them, if that's how it's going to be, as you planned. They are therefore very careless about the effects of the settlement. So, to sum up, I have to tell you that you are stealing on the road, on water, on rail, in the air, and this is the result and this is the conclusion that you have presented here, because what else would be the point of encryption than that if you are going through this process, there is less to know. There's only a very small chance that we can trust that they'll be encrypted because otherwise they're not gonna make an earlier plan, and then they don't want to admit it, they want to hide it. Instead, you need to stop doing this the way it is. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-08-28	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the Group of the LMP; and I announce that he will be followed by Mr Bence Tordai, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-08-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I do not want to use unduly large words or serious statements, or serious indications, but I am starting this debate by saying that this is not just today or the spring session, but one of the most important parliamentary debates and the most serious issues in recent years. I can say that if this project is implemented because of your intention, the government's intention, and the vote of the pro-government representatives, it is a betrayal of national interests. That is why this debate is important, and I very much hope that my fellow Members will participate actively, so that the details of this debate will be included in the minutes and that this can be used later. It is very, very important to say as a reaction, as an introduction that this is not about the use of rail development, the use of rail development or not. I think that all parliamentary groups agree that rail is an extremely important transport and transport sector and that it needs to be improved, but that is not at all the issue here, honourable Members. Railway development makes sense if it serves real transport needs from the point of view of passenger transport, it makes sense if it serves Hungarian national interests, the Hungarian economy and Hungarian society for transport purposes, and we can talk about rail development at all if the utilisation is ensured. It is also possible to discuss the return if the railway section at all is used. Now, what have you guys been doing lately under the title of railway development? A very, very harsh and legitimate criticism of the opposition was also expressed by the right-hand side of the former Kóka period, and it was said that there was a railroad destruction. This is true, these criticisms sat perfectly, but we can say that there has been rail destruction over the past ten years, and what they are doing now is spending HUF 1000 billion on a project that is incomprehensible and unverifiable from the point of view of Hungarian national interests, but that is nothing more than rail destruction. And what's to be improved? I do not want to repeat my fellow Members, but I would just like to give them a few examples. I'm a pussy myself. The journey between Pécs and Budapest is currently between 3 hours 12 minutes and 3 hours 48 minutes. This was two hours and 50 minutes before the change of regime, my fellow Members, and a significant part of this section is one-track. These real transport needs should be addressed and developed. Another example: The train journey between Pécs and Szombathely takes 4 hours 30 minutes. And I can tell you that in the case of a lot of poor rural areas, you can simply run out of trains. So it would be a huge need for development, and we would be the happiest than the Green Party if this HUF 1000 billion was spent on developing the exploited elements of the highly degraded domestic railway network, or on new infrastructure elements such as the Budapest agglomeration or the expansion of the transport possibilities bypassing Budapest, which would indeed have a benefit not only for transport but also for national economy and society. The Secretary of State said nothing about encryption, this is incomprehensible, and it can be interpreted from a certain political point of view: you do not have any real arguments, and I would like to conclude these debates simply by encrypting the related documents, by providing guarantees of return and exploitation that have not been presented, or by encrypting the treaties; otherwise, this is a constitutional breach in our view. [[10.50]] We have already said that this development is not in the interests of the Hungarian nation. But whose interests do you serve? It is clear, and this has already been said: basically this development serves the great power of China, as well as the interests of Lőrinc Mészáros' companies. We know that Lőrinc Mészáros' companies can make 300 billion HUF out of this gigantic project. I would also very much like to ask my fellow opposition Members not to sit down with government propaganda, which does not serve climate protection objectives, fellow Members. It would serve to spend a thousand billion dollars on real railway development. Having a little concrete, laying a pair of rails doesn't serve climate goals. Well, let's look at it in a little bit more detail. Despite the fact that it is extremely serious, we can almost say that it is a sin to present and vote for this project at all, and to make it happen with the money of Hungarian taxpayers, I try to argue and support my arguments with numbers. Well, let us be clear: in this bill we are talking about various shares, financing, Chinese credit, but let it be clear that this will normally cost 600 billion forints, but with additional elements, with the interest of the huge, gigantic Chinese loan, this project will cost about a thousand billion forints, and let it be clear to everyone that the Hungarian government wants to make Hungarian taxpayers pay for this. It didn't occur to me that if this is such a big deal and this is the future, then why is it not about the Chinese's market-based investment and financing? So this cannot be justified in any way from the point of view of the interests of the Hungarian nation. My fellow Members have talked a lot about utilisation. This debate has been going on for years, and we know for a fact that it hasn't just come here, and now we have to speed up the encryption and funding. On no occasion was the government able to provide a calculation-based guarantee of exploitation; so that, where appropriate, there would be a contractual pass that the government would have agreed with the Chinese that they would guarantee that this line, this infrastructure element, would be exploited, so the Chinese would have undertaken a certain amount of transport, guaranteed to be carried on this line, this. So there is no need to talk about return at all; we should talk about utilisation, fellow Members, where is the guarantee that the Chinese will actually undertake to transport at this stage. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, for the time being, my fellow Members of the opposition are not afraid that there will be roaring, loaded trains, because this does not have any guarantees. Not to mention that it is good for us that Hungarian taxpayers are building infrastructure for the long-distance transport of Chinese mass products. That's not good at all. The government didn't give any explanation as to why this cost so much. It's a 100-mile stretch. If you look at the base price, but I think it's worth working with this thousand billion, even if we really are narrowing the cost, it will cost more than 5 billion forints to renovate a kilometer. What's the explanation for this? This is the most expensive Hungarian railway investment ever. What's the technical reason for that? There are no insurmountable geographical conditions here that would justify this project being so terribly and incomprehensiblely expensive. The following is also the use: I would very much like to draw the attention of my fellow members or secretary of state of the government here, these arguments have not yet been made today. In 2017, the government strongly argued, and my fellow Members argue, that the aim is to achieve a truly Chinese-owned port of Pyreus with this rail development. But not much time later, a year or two later, the government announced that they were going to buy or buy an area in northern Italy, Trieste, where they would build a Hungarian port. Minister Péter Szijjártó admitted that the Hungarian port in the port of Trieste in Northern Italy will meet the transport needs of all Hungarian and Hungarian companies. They spend huge amounts of public money, plan to spend on building such a port and logistics base, and we know that the distance between Budapest-Trieste and Budapest-Pireusz is a huge difference, Trieste is much closer. Let's see what happens around Trieste. Indeed, the Chinese have acquired the right to use the port of Pyreus for a very, very long time. But it can also be seen that Chinese interest has already turned to another port, by the way, the North Italian Trieste and other ports. The Chinese have launched huge investments in the port of Trieste, and it is already clear that the Chinese are increasingly seeing in Trieste that this is some sort of logistics centre, some kind of translation disc, and if they enter there and put their goods on the rail, they will reach the heart of Europe, the centre of Europe, on the extended maritime transport route, much cheaper. So it's not guaranteed at all, and that's why we need guarantees that, if we're talking about this at all, that we have to meet Chinese transport needs in any way, I'm convinced that it's not - so the Chinese are going to use it, or they're going to sail into Trieste in the first place, and they're going to use that route. By the way, how interesting, my fellow Members, you are here to argue to take a thousand billion out of the pockets of the Hungarian taxpayers, and your allies, the politicians of the Italian Lega, have already made it clear that it is completely pointless to develop a railroad on the Balkan route to such a vast and otherwise unprovoked distance, because they will use other ports. By the way, the President of the Trieste-Monfalcone Port Authority has also said that it is already apparent from the change in the Chinese concept that Pyreus will not be used in this sense. And by the way, the technical arguments that there are other dive options are false. No, there are also logistical possibilities for receiving all kinds of ships at the port of Trieste. It is very, very important to talk about this, that a shocking pandemic has reached Hungary, and this is a global challenge. It is already noticeable that we are rushing towards an unprecedented and still invaluable economic crisis, and it can be seen that there is a whole different philosophy of economic policy to be pursued. It will be appreciated that the production of basic goods, basic products, should be much more domestic, local or even European, rather than trying to flood the world with Chinese mass products, rather than just Europe. It was also considered in yesterday's debate that China now produces everything. Well, don't make everything in China. Let there be a basic survival instinct in the European economy and in the Hungarian economy, so that China does not produce everything, and we do not build infrastructure with Hungarian taxpayers' money so that Chinese products can be delivered here, it will destroy domestic production! It is quite amazing that you serve this great power of China, and I repeat, with the money of Hungarian taxpayers. This cannot be justified in any way. I would like to reiterate that my fellow opposition Members do not sit up and say that this investment is for climate protection purposes. No! It would serve climate protection goals if they were to implement the improvements that really serve the needs and opportunities of green transport and green transport. Why don't you move road freight to the railroad? The conditions for this should be created and the infrastructure should be created. Domestic rail transport in extremely degraded condition should be improved, freight routes should be developed to avoid Budapest, Kelenföld Railway Station should be developed. These would be real rail development needs, and a huge step could be taken out of this thousand billion forints to achieve this goal. By the way, we know how terrible they are, and with what driving times and times the Hungarian rail transport works. We also know from professional documents that a significant part of the slow signs of this huge amount, of this thousand billion forints, could be eliminated and the domestic rail transport could accelerate. This would be more competitive than individual transport, more competitive than road transport, which is much greener than road transport, and this would serve, my fellow Members, the climate protection targets, not the burning of a thousand billion forints in order to serve Chinese great powers and the companies of Lőrinc Mészáros, because at this moment we are going this way. Yes, criticisms were very justified at the time that the Balliberal governments wanted to put an end to the railway lines. These should be developed, improved and provided with infrastructure, rolling infrastructure, so that Community transport is truly competitive. You are taking these huge sums away from these very important goals, and you want to use them for such unexplainable purposes from the point of view of national interests. So it's a lie that, in itself, this would at least serve climate protection purposes. No! And I would add that, obviously, in such a short speech, it is not possible to go into a general economic policy debate, but basically it would serve climate protection objectives if we did not set up for the long-distance global transport of mass products, but instead tried to meet the basic needs locally or as soon as possible by producing, creating local jobs and creating jobs of higher added value. By the way, I would add that you are already seeing this economic policy change in Western Europe. One of the seaports with the highest utilisation is the port of Rotterdam, and over a decade's horizon, it is estimated that it will give jobs to a large number of people to shut down because their goal is to stop the dumping of Chinese mass products from being based on world trade. There are so many self-defense intentions and senses here and there at least in Western Europe that this must be stopped, and they are preparing for this in the longer term. What does the Hungarian government do? He wants to build an infrastructure for Chinese interests with Hungarian taxpayers' money. And I would add that China doesn't want to take this route anymore. [[11.00]] And, fellow Members, there was a rather disgusting speech here by the Bence of Rétvári the other day, and I could no longer respond to the fact that we, as a green party, are not in favour of rail development. Well, that's an amazing lie. I am now talking about the fact that we are in favour of rail development and meaningful rail development. We support climate protection goals, and you betray them. We have made a proposal for a resolution before Parliament earlier, which said nothing but to stop this huge amount of money, so this project, and to use this huge amount to develop the highly degraded and truly exploited domestic railway infrastructure. We tabled this Parliamentary motion for a resolution and you voted against it. So you voted 'no' to meaningful rail development, you voted 'no' to rural development, 'no' to rural policy, and you voted 'no' to stop the Balliberal rail destruction that you had rightly criticised before, and you voted 'to maintain rail destruction'. We will now present a proposal for a resolution in Parliament, and together with that, we will say that the implementation of this project is a betrayal of national interests. Well, this is compounded by the fact that they want to take this shameful step during a pandemic with no idea how deep the economic impact of this epidemic will be, how deep it will be and how long this economic crisis will be. So we are going to present a proposal for a resolution, which is about stopping this project, and with this huge money we are spending on supporting Hungarian people and Hungarian families who are in a difficult situation, and the Hungarian government is using these funds to recover the Hungarian economy that is falling into a deep crisis, and of course it can be spent on investments that make sense. And I look forward to my fellow Members speaking during the debate, and we can discuss these issues in detail today. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2020-04-08-30	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Bence Tordai, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-04-08-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, First of all, I'd like to ask you what this law is doing before the National Assembly. The point was that Parliament's parties agreed that during the epidemic, we would only discuss closely the laws and proposals related to the control of the epidemic. Compared to this, the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, as part of Fidesz's huge, in no way related law dumping, has a bill to speed up the encryption and construction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. Indeed, if this had been only an agreement between gentlemen, it would be difficult to trace it back, but Viktor Orbán personally wrote to the president of the EPP, when other-way obligations were imposed, in his letter to the Secretary-General of the EPP, that we, prime ministers and party leaders all around the world are focusing all our energy on making effective decisions in order to save lives and to protect the health and safety of our citizens. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right, that's right!]] Now, how does this law contribute to protecting the health and safety of Hungarian people? You don't! In fact, you have made a law to imprison a person who is in some way an obstacle to the control of the epidemic. Well, that's a serious obstacle. It is about spending the 61 billion forints that are planned only for this year's budget for this scandalous, never-refundable development, for the purpose set by the Chinese, instead of spending what people need now: guaranteeing their income security, replacing income losses, patching the holes in the social network, preventing hunger riots, if you understand it better. [[Dr. László Pósán intervenes.]] There is no need for this right now, and this is typically one of the costs that should be pulled out of this year's budget. There is a development cost of HUF 2111 billion in the 2020 budget, at least half of which should be delayed or pissed directly, and this includes, of course, the 61 billion large expenditure related to Budapest-Belgrád rail development. If this was used to control the epidemic or to replace people's income, it would make sense. But why is this bill going to the National Assembly now? It was obviously very important to someone. Well, that's two interests who really care. One of them is China itself, and it seems that Viktor Orbán has found himself a new owner, one was not enough, with Vladimir Putin now the Chinese Communist Party can whistle at him, and he dances like one. [[Gábor Bányai intervenes.]] The other interest is his own wallet, his own pocket, which is called Lőrinc Mészáros, if you look at the birth certificate form, because it is hundreds of billions of forints that the Orbán-Mészáros line will take out of this overpriced and completely unnecessary investment in the coming years. What's this about? Let's put it in a little context. Indeed, as Mr Secretary of State pointed out in his introduction, this is a part of a Chinese area, a road programme, which did not say only that it is about the global expansion of China, to extend its political power and influence, and to allocate the accumulated financial reserves with which they have little to do. So China is looking for investment opportunities for its unnecessary money, giving it to other countries. These are items of such magnitude that it is really only countries as borrowers that can now be considered, and it is not the project itself that is important, it is not the development itself that is important, but that the Chinese banks can finance this, so that China can put out unnecessary cash stocks, in this case, in such a way that it is indebted to Hungary. That's interesting, isn't it? On the one hand, if we look at it, in many places in the Balkans they have tried to grant loans to Serbia, Macedonia and Greece for similar projects, and even in Hungary this V0 railway ring, which would also have been a completely futile development, was tried to finance it. So far, these experiments have been jammed, and it has been clearly shown that they would not bring any economic benefits, except for the Chinese banks, who could charge massive interest rates, in the same way as the expansion in Paks would have been good business for the Russian bank or the Russian financing party, or good business at the moment, so much so that we have already paid off that expensive Russian loan with a cheaper loan. Now I don't know what kind of credit this expensive Chinese loan is gonna pay for. And how does this even fit into the government's economic philosophy of not wanting to be indebted to the rest of the world? Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has said here these days, and his ministers have repeatedly confirmed that during crisis management they do not want to be indebted to the rest of the world, that we do not need an IMF, we do not need a World Bank, but we do not need a European Union loan, but in peacetime, because this Budapest-Belgrád rail development has been decided in peacetime, even in peacetime, they want to be indebted to China. To China, right? ! And why is that? If the Prime Minister wants to provide Hungary financially to an alien power, then why does he choose China? What's with the big Eastern opening? We know that China is not so sensitive to human rights, it is not so sensitive to the quality of democracy, it is not so sensitive to the functioning of the rule of law that it believes in harsh force policy, and it believes that if it can push its will through a partner, it is worth doing, regardless of how that country behaves in other areas, how it conducts exams. A good impression of this approach is the agreement between Hungary and China on rail development in Budapest-Belgrád, which is even worse legally if we look at security issues, if we look at dispute resolution, such as the agreement on investment in Paks with Russia. There, at least, the decision on disputes was subject to Swiss law, and now it is simply in the contract that the competent authorities of the two countries are trying to settle disputes. And if they fail, they will lead the case on a diplomatic path, which means that at the end the Hungarian government, Viktor Orbán, Péter Szijjártó and the others will kneel before the Chinese will. So there is no legal solution here, there is no Hungarian law, no European law, no international law, no Swiss law, no law, there will be no net force policy if there is any dispute. There will be a dispute, and this law seems to have been prepared because the Chinese are still concerned, they know exactly how useless, infinitely expensive, unnecessary project they are passing on to Hungary, they know precisely that it is in their best interest, and Hungary is not in the least, and in preparation for a subsequent change of government, they want to legislate that all the details of the agreement are secret and that they are speeding up this investment so much that it cannot be reversed. That's what happens so much that everyone thinks [[Dr. László Pósán intervenes.]] The Chinese are now defending and defending their own business interests by this law, and Viktor Orbán and the Fidesz-KDNP parliamentary majority are happy to serve these efforts. [[11.10]] It also tells us what this story is about. Okay, we're gonna take the loan, because China's interest is in lending, but on the other hand, someone's gonna do this job. In part, Chinese companies will also be able to do this work by providing them with references in the European Union to facilitate their further expansion - and in the other part, of course, Lőrinc Mészáros will do it through his various companies, since they do not select the contractor by public procurement, but by a simple procurement. The Hungarian State and the Chinese State are no longer in charge here, and they are trying to trick the entire business from the EU competition authorities. My bad news is that in the end there will also be an infringement procedure, not against the Fidesz government, but against Hungary as a whole. Shame, shame, shame, shame on our heads again, only in order for Lőrinc Mészáros 300-400-500 or who knows how many hundred billion forints he can buy from this business. And it would be so charming that it would be strong as a cabaret, that the subcontractors of Lőrinc Mészáros's companies, Lőrinc Mészáros's companies, as well as the companies of the children of Lőrinc Mészáros, as well as the companies of the son-in-law of Lőrinc Mészáros; so the Mészáros family, understand the Orbán family, understand that the Fidesz economic interest is maximizing this free robbery as much as possible. Let's look at the extent to which this project is overpriced. Obviously, rail development does not cost that much, 166 km of railway track does not need to be built from 750-800-900 or thousands of billions, it would be feasible to build a fraction of this, especially since this is not a new track. But let's compare the costs a little with something lifelike. If we're looking at the health crisis, if we're in a crisis caused by a coronal virus epidemic, let's switch to a ventilator that's really needed. With the price of this investment, you could buy 1,500 kilometers of respirator and line it up in a row. Or if we look at another social crisis, the housing crisis: if we built ground-floor family houses next to each other, an endless row of houses, we could build 555 kilometers of such a family house. Thank you, Dogfest, for the calculations. But really, the joke aside, this whole thing doesn't have any benefits in terms of transport policy. This railway corridor from Pireus to Budapest and who knows where else it goes is practically parallel to a water transport corridor. This is what opposition colleagues have already said, that it would be possible to sail along the Adriatic in parallel with this railway track, and this whole story might be a few days or a few hours slower, but once we have been able to ship goods from China to Pireus, one or two days from those weeks it really doesn't divide, it doesn't multiply. The current rail transport time can be shortened by a few hours. The distance between Pyreus and Budapest is 1464 km, of which only 350 km is the high-speed track, while in many places in the Balkans there are 30 and 50 speed limits on the track. So if you really wanted to develop this rail transport route in a cost-effective way, you would obviously do small renovations and repairs there, and you wouldn't put this extremely expensive project on Hungary. The other is the need for the 160 km/h licence and the 200 km/h design speed railway track. Designing and doing one of these things is more expensive by magnitude than having a speed limit, say, two thirds of it. You have admitted that passenger transport on this line is practically not going to happen, which is completely understandable, because there is minimal passenger traffic here. The largest settlement along this railway line between Kelebia and Budapest is Kiskunhalas with its 29 thousand inhabitants. There are three train pairs running all over this section every day. You want to speed up the three train parties that carry only one or two cars? Obviously not, you've admitted that this is supposed to be about freight transport. My bad news is that international freight transport is limited to 100-120 kilometers per hour by the maximum speed of trains. So it's in vain for you to put under a track that lasts 160 kilometers, actually 200 kilometers, when you can go up to 100 miles. Perfectly unnecessary, hundreds of billions of extra costs. This also shows that this is not for transport policy purposes. If you really wanted to improve rail transport, if you were really driven by climate protection objectives, I could start somewhere else in Hungary. On the one hand, where we are actually connected to international passenger and freight traffic, there are also many shameful restrictions, such as Budapest-Vienna or Budapest-Pozsony-Prague-Berlin, or to mention domestic connections, Budapest-Pécs and Budapest-Szeged there are amazing conditions on the railway tracks, and the quality of the track is incredibly ruined. Because of this, there are speed limits and increased travel and transport times everywhere. But to pass through the South-Pest rail bridge to certain freight transports takes several days, it is also a bottlenecks that could be solved and developed very quickly with relatively little money. So there's work to be done. Once again, I would like to quote the Debrecen-Mátészalka story in the cabaret, when an activist in a snail costume ran the train between the two cities. So that's what needs to be developed, dear ladies and gentlemen. By the way, the EU is paying for it, the EU has also provided HUF 1200 billion for such transport development purposes in the previous budget cycle, and it would also give it in the next cycle, since the development of international rail corridors is one of the priorities, but only in cases where this can be proven to be profitable. And since the Belgrade-Budapest axis is not such a project, the EU will not give money for it. So we could get free money. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: No free money!]] Not only should we be indebted to ourselves for decades, generations, but they are throwing away free money, they are not taking up the money that can be spent on intelligent projects, but rather, by burning public money, sponsoring practically the Chinese through interest payments and filling Lőrinc Mészáros' pockets, they are implementing this project just for the sake of shame in the middle of the epidemiological crisis. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-04-08-32	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent Member to apply now has the opportunity to speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Bernadett Wind. Here you go.
u2020-04-08-33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This bill, which the Hungarian Parliament is talking about here, is actually about the fact that the Chinese Communist Party has bought Fidesz and KDNP by kilo. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] That is the essence of this proposal. Be nice, don't yell. This isn't how I planned the big week, KDNP. I think it would be a time of remorse for everyone. You bear Christianity in your name, compared to that, you're practically stealing the week. I think this is terribly embarrassing, and not just for me, but for your entire party. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame on you!]] So don't yell at me, 'cause I've got more comments like that if you want. There's a saying that you can steal a lot in secret. That's what I wanted to share with you, because that's what this encryption that you have been able to bring to this House is all about. You don't want them to see these numbers. This is not, in principle, an economic project, but certainly not a transport project, and it is not a climate protection project at all. This has about as much to do with climate protection as Donald Trump and Bolsonaro together. It's a virtualigli political project. This is about what I was just talking about, that you, who were radicals and liberals and anti-communists, basically kneeled down to the Chinese Communist Party. That's what this story is about. That there is a price to pay for this, and you want to have it paid to the Hungarian taxpayers, it has been written here in this proposal. Because Hungary does not want the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. [[János Schanda: Yes.]] No, Mr. Secretary, you don't. We don't need this. During the course of the debate, my colleagues explained in detail why they did not have to. All I'm saying is that this is based on Chinese credit, but basically it is implemented by the Hungarian taxpayers' money, by Chinese companies, and it helps the Chinese economic expansion. Then I remember they started at about half the amount, maybe 400 billion, but now we're at 600 billion. As Lőrinc Mészáros arrived in the formula, this whole project started to get expensive. Why is that? Because legendary Chinese corruption is now complemented by world-class Hungarian corruption, and then they want to shove it down the throats of the Hungarian people. [[11.20]] It is no coincidence that, while the whole country is defending itself against the epidemic, who can do as he can, does not have a mask, it is another question, because you have not been able to ensure that it is here in Parliament on Mondays, Tuesdays and Wednesdays that theft, the robbery, the mischief of state property, and the distinction between groups is the subject. This is what this is all about for the Hungarian Parliament these three days. But if someone looks at the broadcast now and hears that this is a railway that costs almost 4 billion forints per kilometer, I think it might be a voter for any party, they will ask why it is good for us. It's not good for anything. It's not good for us. It's for you, it's for Lőrinc Mészáros, it's for your political project, actually. Because the problem, you know, is that if a government builds its entire philosophy and total governance on corruption, it's like they're drug addicts: they need the next batch constantly, and this is the next dose for you. In order for you to remain in power, the Prime Minister must serve a host of hungry oligarchs. Lőrinc the Butcher is one of them, but there are some more around you. That's what this project is about, it's not good for the Hungarian taxpayers. This is practically a never-refundable investment, so you have chosen the tactic that, while the whole country and the whole world are defending themselves against the epidemic, they will bring such a shameful bill to this House, which will be taken by people while they are busy with something else, and Easter and the plague are really voted, and from that point on, we will not be able to see the numbers. That's what they did to Paks. Just by the time I had access to the risk assessment and a bunch of valuable material, they brought it in here that everything was classified, they voted it out, and then they moved on. But we still know exactly that Paks II. such an investment, it will never be worth it to the Hungarian people. Never! It won't be worth it. Four billion, I'm telling you, a kilometer away? Are you kidding me? Seriously! They're out of control. By the way, about this corruption issue in the last ten years I don't know, it's almost ten years now, for almost any of these projects we could have said. But there's a picantria in this whole story, and it's timing. Now, when virtually all over Europe is recalculating the relationship with China, trying to shorten supply chains, trying to bring home production installed in Asia, this railway is unjustified in all respects; it must be stopped immediately, because it is precisely here that the cancer is the cause of this whole story, that we are in a crisis, the economic consequence of which requires precisely a thought that should be aimed at strengthening the capacity to raise domestic capital. You have now made a joke out of the word "National" because now everything that is corrupt is put before him, that's how he is pushed down the throat of his own voters. But I really think that something should be local and national, so that we can have value-making opportunities at home when the channels are stuck somewhere else and we can't connect. You know, it's just that they're still moving towards China. I was listening to Péter Szijjártó yesterday, and he said that the whole of Europe is in line for the tools needed for health protection, including the countries concerned with democracy; perhaps after the coronal virus, the policy on Eastern relations needs to be considered. Well, you're right about that, you have to think about it, but not in the way the minister thinks. Because the epidemic pointed to the total vulnerability of the global economic arrangement in China, and that is why I said earlier that in a situation like this, if we are looking for a way out of the crisis, and we are thinking a little bit about what we have failed to do, that we are in a situation like this and what we should do differently, then exactly what I said was that the ability to raise domestic capital should be strengthened, not constantly bringing goods here from a distance, dissipating the Hungarian economy, Hungarian producers, but learning to appreciate what is ours. We've been waiting for this for ten years. You still had a Secretary of State for Agriculture, Professor Ángyán, who put down an agricultural strategy for which I said it was extremely good. Professor Ángyán is no longer here. You can see what all the fruit and vegetable shelves look like now for hypermarkets. They laughed at me when I put it on the minister's desk in a basket about what goods were in it: it was all foreign goods. So, you can preach that you want a national, and the rest, and the rest. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] But, technically, you have not been able to fulfill your promise for ten years to value domestic food, domestic production and domestic labour. Well, look at how many Hungarians have gone abroad. So you now have less and less moral opportunity to speak here in the Hungarian Parliament about your appreciation for this country. China is valued. Well, here's the bill. Because we want to pay 4 billion a kilometer for the Communist Party, the Chinese Communist Party, to look kindly at you. That's what I'm talking about. They started out as young democrats, and now they've come to basically thanking the Communist China, scolding the European allies where they know, and that's basically the total shame, because dictatorial methods include a lot of things, and when we look at China, we have to talk about them. We need to talk about concealing facts, falsifying facts. There is a need to talk about human rights issues that go there with the Uighurs and Tibetans, which are viewed indifferently and do not speak about this. And, yes, we also need to talk about the extremely embarrassing economic dependence that Hungary has on Communist China. And really, if you had learned so much from the whole epidemic that this kind of economic arrangement had to be rethinked and reorganized, you would have to think a little with the European democracies that you have looked down on, which have already come to this point of view, then you would have taken the first step to draw lessons from the epidemic, at least in economic terms, because, in terms of health, you have not yet succeeded at any level. But as you can see here, you're going in the opposite direction. So this timing, in addition to your recipe-like corruption projects, makes this story infinitely embarrassing, and I understand why you are hiding here in the dark of the Hungarian Parliament with such proposals: because I think you are ashamed of what is going on here. [[Gábor Bányai: Oh!]] So, really, is this really how you imagined the big week to be stolen with practically such suggestions? This is infinitely embarrassing. It's infinitely embarrassing, and how do I put it? I don't even know how the KDNP explains this to itself, because I don't think there's much explanation for this. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] The opposition has every right to ask you questions, and voters will be able to ask these questions, and they will ask these questions, although I doubt that it would be my voice on Magyar1 tonight, as I am talking about KDNP and Fidesz practically kneeling down to Communist China; you will be talking, and you will say such nonsense that this is a big climate protection project. Allow me to express my indignation at this point as a green man. [[Nacsa Lawrence Laughing: Green!]] Yes, my green identity to you, colleague Nacha, you have no right to question... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Nor my Christian identity!]] I didn't question your Christian identity. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes, you can. Yes, you can.]] I just asked him why he spent the week stealing it was an absolutely legitimate question. But for you, there's an opportunity for the spiritual power plant or whatever it is to organize it in the appropriate forums. But the Hungarian voters will rightly charge you with these funds, and there is no accident that we have sent the money out of the pockets of the taxpayers in the last ten years, and because of whom the Hungarian health system is now rotting, the teachers are working for virtually zero money, because of whom many Hungarian people had to go abroad, and because of whom this country is completely crumbled, it could be a flourishing place. There have been serious billions of people here, and these people should be taxed just because they have been practically our leeches in recent years, dear colleague Nacsa and KDNP. You're still Lawrence the Butcher! This whole investment started to get expensive when Lőrinc Mészáros appeared in the picture, and you will never be able to answer that question, why is it that while these people are being capitalized, while the Hungarian people are becoming poor and going abroad. There is one answer: that you have always had more important pockets than the fate of the Hungarian people, this is the great formula in this regard. So with all due respect, this has nothing to do with climate control. If you want to protect climate, help the capital to fight community transport and do not prevent it. If you want to protect the climate, build railway lines or develop railway lines already operating within the territory of Hungary, which are currently in extremely low condition! If you want to protect the climate, build bike roads. If you want to protect the climate, get out of the big government cars and go on a cross-country trip the same way I did by train, and see what conditions there are that, starting from parasites, everything is in the cars in which we travel, what climate is there, and what kind of climate is not, and how many hours we can get there, say, from one settlement to another! Try it. [[11.30]] I'd like to see your Facebook live by crashing on these trains and trying to meet the voters like this, and report back, and then they won't give you 4 billion for a kilometer of the Budapest-Belgrade railway! I want you to meet reality for a while. Come out of this Parliament when the curfew is over and look at the state of the Hungarian railway line and what has become of this whole system under your governance. Then you won't have the nerve to bring such billings here, or if you bring them here, you'll be very quiet about what you have to say, and you won't be here preaching climate protection to me! Thank you.
u2020-04-08-34	Dear Parliament, I wanted to say a sentence, but I think that I will now give the floor to Mr Schanda Tamás János State Secretary, and I think that the time frame is now available for the Secretary of State. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-04-08-35	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Allow me to participate in the debate, as I do at this time, to respond to the speeches by the lead speaker, and allow me to do so now, so that we can continue the debate from here, I hope, not in the style of the last comment. Dear House, I would like to thank Mr Bányai for his excellent presentation of the national strategy objectives and for his summary of why this proposal is of greater importance than itself and this bill. Later, we saw that not everyone understood all the points of this speech. Congressman Ander has also asked me a number of questions that he has asked me to answer, and that is what I am trying to do, and I would try to do it for him if he were here. [[Ander Balázs arrives in the Chamber.]] Here's the congressman. Between 2018 and 2023 I was talking about a HUF 1700 billion development, including the renovation of 660 kilometers of railway lines, the construction of HUF 1700 billion, 200 kilometers of new sections and the electrification of 440 kilometers. So that's what the 1700 billion forints you put elsewhere cover, but I repeated these numbers once more. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this development contributes to the import of Chinese goods into Europe, Hungary and Europe. I wouldn't recommend underestimating Chinese goods, but especially now. Allow me to inform you that, in the last month or two, many of my colleagues and I have spent very serious hours, days, weeks with the right amount of health protection equipment, for example, arriving in the country, and I think that it is also coming from China. Let us not underestimate the importance of Chinese goods in the world in which we are living, and I think this is certainly irresponsible. On the issue of encryption, it has come up several times, and I will also try to address it more often, but let me tell you that there was a lot of information up and up on the EU TED about procurement. Information that contains sensitive Chinese business data and that would negatively affect Hungary's foreign economic and foreign policy options will become secret. They are secret, this is what this legislation allows, and everything else is, of course, available. The price was mentioned here in several speeches, and Mr Ander also asked questions about the price. My request is to reconsider your critical remarks, because the price is cheaper than otherwise in other developments. This is about double track construction, full renovation, compliance with EU rules, accessibility. Thus, the prices that are otherwise included and with which we are working for this investment are not higher, but lower than the related standard prices. Pay attention when talking about a double track, that's two kilometers and not one. So it's such a simple mathematics, it's worth paying attention to, and I would like to draw your attention to that. With regard to return, I think that, in addition to the return on figures, it cannot be stressed enough that this is not the first thing that counts for this type of investment, and that is never the way we count them. The shortening of travel time, the decreasing delivery time, the associated declining economic risks, the growing economic opportunities, the significant reduction in environmental burden, the reduction of accident risk, and the fact that the national strategic and geopolitical interest of Hungary alone is an important argument beyond itself, in addition to the necessity and justification of the investment. The question of other rail developments has been mentioned in Mr Ander's speech. Allow me not to open a debate on other rail developments here, because then we would be completely disrupting the debate on the bill. We agree that in many places the country needs the development of the railway, and we are also spending significantly more money than before on the development of the railway, either on the stock of vehicles or on the development of rolling stock or on the development of railway lines. We are not working to close the railway lines and to remove the railway, but to make this a modern and well-functioning system, but this cannot be achieved from one minute to the next, it takes time. I ask you to understand this, but in other parliamentary situations, I am also happy to debate the need for other rail developments. Szeged asked why this story didn't go that way. This has been examined by professionals, and it is clear that this trail is what is needed. Therefore, the claim is justified, the investigation has been carried out and it has been clearly established that this route is worth developing. Let me also draw your attention to the fact that today we are travelling between Budapest and Belgrade in part by plane and partly by car. This can change with the help of this development, and it is of greater importance for Central Europe, for Hungary's strategic situation as well. This development will allow you three and a half hours by rail from Budapest to Belgrade, and, of course, three and a half hours in the reverse direction, and this is important. Let me also draw attention to the fact that not only will the train stop in Belgrade, the railway will stop in Hungary, but also in Hungary's territory across the border, so this project also has a national strategic significance, because we are once again getting closer to our separated national brothers. We also thank Congressman Aradski for his support and for the aspects he has said. I think that much could be learned from the way that Mr President summarized the information on the project and tried to clarify the bill. Here, too, I have found that this was not taken into account in the subsequent speeches, even though there has been a lot of answers in the Member's speech. In Mr Cook's speech, it was said that we cannot debate the essential issues, because they are encrypted. I think we are discussing substantive issues and we are dealing with substantive issues. There's nothing encrypted that can't be debated here, and I think that doesn't make it impossible, by the way, to discuss the issues that really are public affairs. Questions concerning business information, Chinese business information and Hungarian foreign and foreign policy interests are those that do not need to be made accessible to everyone. [[11.40]] The question of passenger transport has been raised. Allow me to confirm that it is, of course, suitable for passenger transport and is also planned to be used. In fact, right after the renovation, this railway line becomes truly livable and usable for passenger transport. As I mentioned earlier, the distance between Budapest and Belgrade is reduced to 3.5 hours. This, in itself, is an argument to link and approach the capital of two Central and Eastern European countries by rail. I think that would in itself justify the existence of this project. Here is what has been said here: why during the crisis, when we are facing economic difficulties due to the virus crisis. The fact is that, unlike the economic policy of the socialists, we always think that when there are economic difficulties, we do not need austerity, but more development. This investment is not an argument that it is now a difficult time, but an argument for it. The reason why we have to do this more quickly now is that this investment becomes even more important, more important than ever, because Hungarian people will be able to work on the investment, earn income and work on it. This is what our economic policy vision is all about. So this development is not less important, it is more important, and it must not be done slower, but faster. That is why I ask that you support this bill in any way. Congressman, allow me also to respond to the fact that, unlike you, we are pleased - that Hungarians are involved in this project, Hungarians are involved in it as entrepreneurs, Hungarians are involved in it as contractors, and Hungarians are also involved in it as workers. We're proud of that, and we're happy for it. I get that you seem kind of funny, by the way. [[László Varju: Lőrinc Ripper?]] It seems fun to speak in Parliament because of the interests of European companies, and I ask you not to lobby for the interests of foreign businesses, be proud of that. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Let Butcher's have it.]] Let us be proud of Hungarian people participating in Hungarian investments. It was also a surprising moment, and let me draw attention to the fact that by the way, anyone could have entered the procurement process. [[Defiance from the ranks of Jobbik, MSZP and LMP.]] [[Defiance from the ranks of Jobbik, MSZP and LMP.]] [[Defiance from the ranks of Jobbik, MSZP and LMP.]] Everyone had their chance. By the way, let us be proud of the fact that a consortium created by a Hungarian enterprise has become the winner! (Development from the lines of Jobbik, MSZP and LMP. ) That's something to be proud of, not to fight. (Development from the lines of Jobbik, MSZP and LMP. ) That's what we'd like you to do. We also ask you not to lecture us on the subject of credibility. This loan is a good loan. A loan that is more favourable than any other market option. It was you who took loans from the IMF and other international organisations that reduced government sovereignty. [[Laszlo Varju: Lies!]] This does not reduce [[László Varju: Secretary of State, that's a lie! Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] [[Laszlo Varju: Lies!]] This does not reduce (László Varju: Secretary of State, this is a lie you are saying! Noise. The president's ringing. This does not reduce government sovereignty (László Varju: Lies!) We don't have to do anything about it. Congressman, I've listened to you. If you'll do me the honor of listening to me, then we're good. [[László Varju: Just don't lie, Mr. Secretary. Grumbles and interrogations from the ranks of Fidesz: Ouch!]]
u2020-04-08-36	Fellow Members! So far, the debate has been normal. Everyone has applied for a two-minute speech, please hold this. We'll all have our chance. Thank you.
u2020-04-08-37	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I try to answer every question that comes up, it just doesn't make sense. [[László Varju: Well, there isn't!]] If we cannot have this debate in a meaningful way. Once again, this loan is more favourable than any market credit, so it is a good decision to make this development. Allow me also, Mr President, to draw attention to the fact that Minister Palkovic mentioned when the economic protection action plan will be presented to Parliament. This will also take place at tomorrow's Economic Committee meeting, whichever question they can ask there. I think this is the right way and the right opportunity for the Minister to inform Parliament. Congressman Varju asked me to answer your question. Now I'm trying to do this, and I hope you won't keep talking to me. The thing is, he's been asking about the existence of regulations, laws, government decisions, why this is necessary. It also shows that we are working on that the project is progressing anyway. Every week, this project is also dealt with by the management of our ministry, we usually meet on Mondays at dawn, if you are interested in such educational activities. Yeah, that's what comes with regulations, decisions, and laws. Indeed, Minister Palkovics is overseeing this as a government commissioner. The point is that without any extra funding, as you have said, and without further administration, it should be possible for the general government to be responsible, and that the operation of the general government can help to coordinate and assist the positions of the different wallets, as this is an investment where several ministries have a role and a task. I would ask the Member not to underestimate this project, or that is why. I also understand that you do not like to build, create new things, but allow us to have visions and have plans for how this country will and how it should look. I also have an argument with you that I think it is important to cooperate with the Chinese and it is important to work with them. We have been saying that over the past few weeks, and we have seen that this is necessary in recent years. I also understand that you're anti-railmen, you've shut down everything you know, but we think that's necessary. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Excuse me, I'll continue in the next round. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-08-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I ask for your understanding, but there will be an opportunity. There are two-minute speeches coming up. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-04-08-39	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to approach this Belgrade-Budapest railway project a little more broadly in terms of Hungary's international relations. Of course, we agree that Hungary should pursue a good relationship with most countries in the world. These include China with its economic and financial strength. By the way, the speeding up of this project was agreed by Péter Szijjártó and the Chinese Foreign Minister at the UN meeting in New York in September 2019 and confirmed at this meeting that Hungary wants to be the flagship of cooperation between China and the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. In this regard, let me add that it is not necessarily an EU argument to help Chinese gain, as my fellow Member has already said in this regard. However, we are not only making financial sacrifices, but also moral sacrifices, because at this meeting Péter Szijjártó said that Hungary supports China's membership of the UN Human Rights Council. Do you know who Li Ven-liang is? The Chinese doctor who first informed the world that it was an infectious epidemic that the police produced and that 8 people were prosecuted was indicted because they said it was spreading from man to man. It's China! This, which is currently in place with regard to human rights, and you are undertaking to represent it, and you are trying to make China a seat in the Human Rights Council. It's a moral sacrifice this country shouldn't take. Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[11.50]]
u2020-04-08-40	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Zita Gurmai of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-04-08-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You may remember that very dear Éva Almási-Márkus László cabaret when you were asked why this chair cost so much. Well, I would like to ask you the same question now, although, Mr Secretary of State, thank you very much for telling me about the tracks, and that, accordingly, this 4 billion is only 2 billion, but in any case, I think it would be important to discuss this a little bit more precisely. I think that the green representatives have said very precisely what could be understood or interpreted at all on green policy, so I would be curious to see that they are so kind to explain, because I think this is extremely important. I was a member of the European Parliament's Transport Committee for ten years, and for five years I had an excellent fellow Member named Zsolt Becsey, who started to deal with this project, and it is extremely regrettable that he had to leave, simply because unfortunately, this investment costs far more than could otherwise have been achieved. It is a pity that an excellent specialist, an ex-member, was removed in this matter. Railroad is important to me, not just because I am the child or grandson of a railway dynasty, so accordingly, any investment in railway matters is important to me for any investment that makes sense. Undoubtedly, it is a fact that getting by train between Budapest and Belgrade today is very tough, and in good case it is possible to get there in six hours by multiple crossings. Thank you to the Secretary of State, he said that today this can be reduced to half, but the question now is, when and who will actually be able to use this railway. But I would like to remind you quietly that, even in Western Europe, we can see that with that fast train, Thalys, it is 500 kilometers from Paris in Budapest. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Yes, that can be done in an hour and a half. So I'd definitely like to. [[The president's ringing again.]] to ask for clarifications. Thank you very much for the President's patience.
u2020-04-08-42	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gábor Bányai of the Fidesz Group, also in two minutes.
u2020-04-08-43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is difficult in the two minutes, and then in a normal speech, I wrote many, many, twenty-some questions. The first is that I believe that the counter-reimbursement calculation works by dividing the total cost of the investment by the price of the student tickets. That'll pay you back in 10,000 years, you're right. If it's calculated at the price of a student ticket, it doesn't make any sense. They need to know that Rail Cargo spends 70 billion forints a year net. 30 million tonnes of goods are exported from Hungary or transported through Hungary. It is distributed back, a ton of goods transported on the rail axis at a price of around 2 thousand forints. Distribute that this 5-10-15-20 million tons of goods we expect from this project that goes through us, how much revenue can it bring! The other: Zoltán Balczó said that with the China that killed his doctor. Please, the Italian Prime Minister has allowed 17,000 Italians to be slaughtered because of the virus, he has not protected them. Spain did the same thing, France did the same thing, Sweden did, and then we hurt China with what, by the way, is internal affairs, serious and offensive, sad that they let a doctor get rid of it, but this is how we use the revolver, while 30,000 people in Europe are going to die from that virus? The other thing that's very important is the methods of calculating this investment, which you're performing here, you've brought up what's not green, what's green in it, that we're insulting you. Well, please, this project creates thousands of jobs. A logistics centre will be built between Kiskunhalas and Kunszentmiklós; several plants will be established there. [[László Varju intervenes.]] You may think so, Mr honourable Member, but this project will be about much more. Investors in Kiskunhalas have already come forward because it will be worth it in the long run. In addition, it is very important that when you say why you are not Szeged or why you are not on track the whole time, Congressman Ander said that you are avoiding the track in Szeged; the Budapest-Cegléd is overloaded; the three track pairs can no longer provide it, we should build two more next to it. Nonsense! I'll do it in a normal way, because I have a lot of questions to answer. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-08-44	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs of the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-04-08-45	Thank you very much, I will explain more in my ordinary speech, just a few things that have been encrypted for another ten years: the trial of Ferenc Gyurcsány in Moscow; Péter Niedermüller and Imre László encrypted the criminal contract with Csaba Czeglédy for ten years in the districts, which is also ten years. The congresswoman has not yet spoken against this, and this will be another one on her list, in order to oppose the ten-year encryption of the criminal contract with Csaba Czeglédy. And for ten years, the circumvention of the Csillebérc KISZ plot for my friends is also linked to Ferenc Gyurcsány. These were all investments or shops with ten years of encryption. Because of your blessed activities, and it is important that the LMP, Jobbik, Congresswoman Bernadett Wind bought by the Momentum and the others in the Alliance listen to it. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Not Soros? It's the Soros!]] that the PPP construction project of the M5 and M6 motorways caused damage to Hungarian taxpayers of HUF 2800 billion. If it had been built on credit, this HUF 2800 billion would not have been a damage to the Hungarian taxpayers. Last year, you spent 200 billion forints on the motorway investment launched by you as a shameful investment for Hungarian taxpayers, which is 2800 billion; Bernadett Szél did not even say that 2800 billion were stolen in connection with motorway investments. I find it shameful that Mr Crusade Leader said that this debate is important for him to have usable material in the minutes. He did not say that we should have this debate because it is an important project, it is a lot of money, it can affect our economic relations in the long term, but rather to obtain usable materials from the protocol. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Congresswoman Bernadett Szél gave 12 minutes of intense hatred in the name of the week, but at the beginning she quickly stated that it was now the week, and then she flooded the meeting room with 12 minutes of intense hatred. Ladies and gentlemen, Read the European Court of Auditors report on rail transport; I will talk about this in the ordinary speech. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-08-46	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, MEP László Varju applied for a two-minute speech, DK. I give you the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-08-47	Thank you very much. Congressman Nacsa is making a great effort to talk about something else, but I am going to stay on the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, because if you think about only one part, if you are indebted to the Hungarians for HUF 880 billion in the lower voice, this amount of credit will have to be paid back in the next period, then the same source could be provided by the budget to save Hungarian small businesses, to be able to put here not only a ridiculous starting point of HUF 1300 billion. It would be possible to increase and double the family allowance significantly. As long as you are unable to make a substantial pension increase, or even to finance the operation of this country, because you do not pay them the pension increase from real inflation, you have no right to spend our money on such Belgrade-rail entertainment! That's what you do, and that's why you have to take responsibility. And the people who vote for this are not brave, but traitors, including you! [[Intercom from the ruling parties: PPP!]] They can't do that! The people whose potential is being destroyed by this crisis must be given a chance to live! And this is not what you have put before us for the coming years. You'd better think about what you're doing and why you're standing there. Is it because they're gonna pay for it? Is that why you're putting your face on this? [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] When are you going to think that people need a living? And that is why they should be looking after jobs and not making the Hungarian Parliament a laughing stock.
u2020-04-08-48	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes.
u2020-04-08-49	Thank you, Mr. President. I fully understand my fellow Member's anger, but I am still trying to respond calmly to the speeches. First of all, congratulations to Congressman Nacsa, you have been on a platform with Ferenc Gyurcsány in a minute on pointless investment and encryption. And, yes, we say that pushing this project through is a historical sin, so it is extremely important that the minutes follow up on who argued in this debate and how they will vote. [[12.00]] Mr Secretary of State has indicated that we have now received protective equipment from China, this is extremely important, but I think that this was a very, very bad analogy now. I'm very pleased that the State Department has solved the transportation of these equipment on an air bridge. A few days ago, Péter Szijjártó said that they had the capacity to make deliveries to municipalities. This is extremely important. I am very pleased that we are talking about rail development - that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not want to transport these important protective equipment here by rail, because it would have taken about three weeks on this route, i.e. by boat and rail. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's not ready yet.]] I think that this was not a good analogy in this regard, but it is obviously very, very important that these protective equipment could be bought quickly. I'm less pleased that you're getting this, let's say, to Northern Macedonia at a time when it's not for the Hungarian population, but it's another debate. However, very, very important things were said in this debate that there was an investigation into the trail. Where is this investigation? I asked Minister Szijjárto. I don't know, put your hands up from among my fellow Members, who saw this inquiry, saw the feasibility study. Looks like no one. I asked for this stuff. He also talked about why this cost of 5 billion per kilometer is justified, Mr Secretary. Where's the budget? Where is the feasibility study? I've been asking Minister Szijjártó for months, and now for a year. I didn't get it. Now they're encrypting it. Put your hands up from among my fellow Members, who saw this budget mentioned by the Secretary of State. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Secretary of State saw it.]] Secretary of State saw it. It seems to me that my fellow Members have argued that they have not seen the feasibility study. I'll ask you about the rest in the normal speech, but I think it's symbolic in itself. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] That you didn't see these materials, or that you're just pro-government representatives, and now you're about to encrypt. Thank you.
u2020-04-08-50	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Sándor Székely, an independent Member, also in two minutes; and I thank you for your cooperation and the leadership of the meeting to Vice-President István Hiller. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] [[Bence of Tordai will be replaced by Gergely Arató in the notary seat.]]
u2020-04-08-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I've made two mistakes about today. One is that I thought that it was more brazen to do something than a few years ago at the Metropolitan Assembly to introduce or not introduce an online ticket, where MEPs brought a 200-page paper a minute before the vote and had to vote on a seven-billion-dollar thing. So, I thought it was the most brazen way to work, but I guess I was wrong. Here, a 700 or 600 billion-dollar thing should be decided as many people around me today have said, practically encrypted materials, and we don't really know what we're talking about. The other problem, my other mistake for today, is that I thought today we were going to talk about how to save the country in the situation we are in because of the epidemic. Are we really talking about how to take on a big loan when there are hundreds of thousands of people in the country without work or in unemployment? ! We are really talking about how Viktor Orbán's stooge should still have a few hundred billion forints, while the world economy is collapsing around us, and so we take on a big loan, not knowing what will happen, let alone in Hungary, but on the ground, let's say, in two months' time, how the structures will be reorganized? ! We shouldn't be talking about that, we should be talking about how to protect people. For example, let's say that the minimum pension should be HUF 37 500 or HUF 100,000, or that not only businesses and banks will be assisted by the government, but let's say the employees, and let's say the minimum income is HUF 100,000. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-04-08-52	Good afternoon. Welcome. We will continue with our work and with the speeches of the speakers who have been announced in advance. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, representative of Jobbik, may speak. Here you go.
u2020-04-08-53	Mr President, Dear House, I apologize to the technical staff in advance, because we are trying to keep our distance from the new rules of social distance, so I'm halfway to my own place, but I don't want to risk your health either. At the same time, I would like to raise the mood of Fidesz-KDNP a little bit in terms of the fact that if you continue to do so, which you have done here today, it is no exaggeration to say that you are preparing the biggest corruption scandal of the Fidesz governments. Potentially, it can be said that Fidesz subway 4 will be involved in this way, in that sense. We also see that you should be brought back from beyond the Stargate to Hungarian reality. So, hello, good morning, fellow pro-government Members. The fact is that tens of thousands of Hungarians have lost their jobs here in recent days. Every day, thousands more lose their jobs, and you are here in Parliament talking about building a new railway line on the Budapest-Belgrád line with a hundreds of billions of dollars investment. However, this year's budget ahead of us is worth HUF 60 billion, which would be tangible; we should, please, freeze this project and transfer the tangible amount to the epidemiological defense account at this moment, and point, and cancel this agenda. The fact is that, compared to this, you are discussing how to transfer additional funds from foreign megaloans, using foreign partners, into a draft that no one in Hungary actually wants. Here, the word "speak" can be debated, obviously for one or two thousand people living in the region and for the tens of thousands of people in Kiskunhalas, this can be a measurable help in ten years' time if they do it well. But it is quite certain that this investment in this form is not necessarily necessary from the point of view of passenger transport. Its return in the lower voice is hundreds of years, whereas no counter-argument has been said, all in all, that we do not pay attention to the payback data. We are unable to pay attention to a recovery study, since it has not been shared with us, and now it will be encrypted from here on out, and we see that the most important thing, however, is the amazing tens of billions of dollars that could go into the epidemiological defense if the madness were not continued by the Fidesz-KDNP. What we see is that, while all of Europe is cleverly trying to reduce the unduly long production chain, it is trying to create a situation where it can cut down the evoke drivings of globalisation, it can reduce the negative externalities that are peeking at it, so what is Hungary doing? It also increases its exposure through such an investment. And you are right, I have never supported the fact that in Hungary an IMF loan should be taken out, and that the vulnerability of the Hungarian economy should be strengthened ten or fifteen years ago, nor its exposure. I'm not going to support it now. In my view, the former IMF loan and the current Chinese megacredit are a category, ladies and gentlemen. You may owe me percentage figures that this seems a little more favourable now, and although we are indebted to Hungary, a little less will have to be repaid in a little longer time. I don't care! The fact is that our exposure is being increased in the same way, not concentrated on our own resources, is being brought out of the situation that we can, and they are going against the line-up of Europe as a whole. In Europe, 15 countries have developed a system and system of compensation for wages. The Orbán government came up as the sixteenth with an idea that, although it communicates with steam three days ago, did not dare to announce its specifics at the first moment, because what does Fidesz-KDNP do? Call, measure, measure, measure, probe the public to see what the masses are satisfied with. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] And what they still need to do in order to try to reassure large masses in the midst of a flood of lies. However, the fact is that the Hungarian government is still in the category "runners" regarding the replacement of wages. And you can smile about it, but numbers are stubborn. In Austria, replacements are 80-90 per cent on reduced working hours. The employer pays some after the actual hours worked, and after the actual hours not worked, the state will replace it, I repeat, 80-90 percent. In France, if someone lost their job because of the crisis, what happens? The increased unemployment benefit represents up to 84 percent of his previous salary. No one will remain in the same position as in Hungary under your government. There's big words here, but which one of you has anything to say to the 40,000 to 70,000 people who just lost their jobs overnight? Your salary replacement plan, because we still don't see the detailed rules, doesn't say a damn word about the people who lost their livelihood. Not a word. What do you think you're doing? ! How can they call themselves responsible governments if tens of thousands of people fall out through the spruce holes of the social network? ! They will then come up with a plan whereby, in the case of part-time work or reduced working hours, the government will only undertake 70% of the workers who are not staying at home, once again, for a reduced workforce. The distribution of this depends on the rules of detail, so let's assume that they can still make history, and this 70 percent was indeed 70 percent. Our Hungarian employment protection fund concept would clearly resolve the situation compared to this: 80 percent must be guaranteed by those who still have a job, and, yes, require the employer to maintain this job, as it doesn't matter how quickly we can get back on their feet after the crisis, but it is also necessary to make up for 80 percent who have already lost their livelihood. [[12.10]] No one can stay on the side of the road in Hungary. And we could go further: how is it that you managed to do the credit repayment moratorium that we proposed, but at the same time you weren't brave enough to ban executives? My fellow Member Nacsa, present an amendment. How is it that 33 percent of small pensions are still deducted from executives? How is it that, in the event of more debt from the lowest salaries, my fellow Member, 50 percent is taken by the executor in the middle of an epidemiological crisis? Submit the amendment, take this idea, rename it, I'll vote for it, I'll put the oath down for you, just do it, I beg you. We expect a little less lectures, a little less vests, and more action, and we will support you in this. The draft of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line should be assessed in the light of this. I suggest you freeze this right now. Grab the whole project and set it aside for after the crisis. What is a mobile source and may stand up and tell me that it is not 61 billion, but only 17 or 3 or 2 forints if it is half a billion forints, put it in the protection against the epidemic, in the Hungarian employment protection fund, to make up for lost salaries. This is what the safety of life in Hungary is about in the coming weeks, months, that people who are sinking into the swamp of hopelessness can get help or not at the moment. And yes, Chinese investments have a kind of special symbolism at the moment. An excellent Pusér publicistry could be read about how the modern suburb of Manchester, a few hundred years ago, became practically the Vuhan of today, how the developed world organized its production along with its trash into regions worthy of a better fate, which cannot be regarded as serving units for Europe and the developed world. Yes, the whole globalisation process must be reinterpreted. We now have 30 years of political attachment to the political and historical waste heap, we should recode ourselves here together in a few days, and we are now finding out who the worthy governing party is and who the worthy opposition is, because we need to build a self-sustaining Europe, including a self-preservation Hungary, fully recoding what we have known so far about economic policy and economic development and infrastructure development and railway lines. We need to build a Hungary that is most self-sufficient, from food to building materials, to the raw material of infrastructure development, and can produce what it needs. That doesn't mean international lock-in, that doesn't mean we're closing the borders, not at all. An equal, normal, good relationship must be maintained with China, Russia, Germany, the US and everyone who has an interest in it, whatever world political interest. But that doesn't mean that one kind of exposure, vulnerability, in many cases economic chirping is what we call what has happened in the last 30 years should now be replaced by what has been done in another direction. No! The fact that previously a failed IMF loan has crippled the national economy does not mean that we have to do something similar in the direction of other world regions and other regions, and to diversify Hungarian exposure or to spread out, but still to build an economy that is equally exposed. This can't be the way of the future. So what we see is that, yes, you are taking on a favourable loan, I think, is not a positive loan - 15 percent of you are taking part in it. The construction circle is typically, let's say that it is suspected that it consists of the companies of relatives of government-related oligarchs and oligarchs. Mr Secretary, I ask you one thing: spare us the lecture that anyone could have started this tender, or anyone could have entered this round. It's a cynicism and a half sentence of an age that you started fighting when you were young. This calls for an attitude from an age that you really struggled against when you were younger, the current Fidesz top leaders defined themselves to somehow extricate or exterminate this Bolshevik nerve, and I'm starting to fear that young Democrats will become old Bolsheviks in terms of their behavior and start using the same tools under government as they did when they were young. I would like to spare you from this, because now, in the middle of an epidemiological emergency, you could receive opposition support for your fair proposals, for all normal, sane ideas. But the way is not that now, what may be considered to be a business interest or a Chinese business interest, is encrypted against the Hungarian public interest, so the Hungarian public interest is placed in second place because the evident interests of their business partners appear to be stronger than what Hungarian transparency requires. We also see that I do not want to identify myself with all the opposition arguments that have been made, because obviously there are debates between us, and we will box them, but not now, not in the middle of a crisis period, but afterwards. For example, I would be very happy if our Hungarian brothers who have been cut across the border could have wider access to railway infrastructure, making it easier to manage their daily lives or even manage their businesses or cultivate their agricultural land. I'm sure I'd support you. But not now, not like this, not at this price, not at this construction, not at the cost of getting rich with your business partners. I would then take the money that is unduly enriched in this system and use it to increase our trapped brothers and sisters across the border. But the fact is that this argument alone cannot sell this development. We also see that what they're about to do is uneven, out of character, and quite simply unsuitable. In the middle of an epidemiological emergency, you couldn't put together another measurable defense fund. In their fund for epidemiological control, Mr State Secretary, disprove me if there are no specific renamings and re-lagulations, so the entire Employment Fund, together with one or two items, appears in the epidemiological defense, not by adding new money, but by renaming, re-labelling, stacking them together, and announcing to the press that we have 1100 billion forints to defend. It's pretty amazing. This is not yet the 19-20 percent of GDP, as you said, is a very simple math operation, and it can be seen in two steps that they are at a fraction of that. We need new resources, and we can name these new resources, and I will conclude my thoughts with this: burden-sharing, my fellow Members. Let's take a look at the public cargo. We started there, didn't we, that half of the party support was taken by this government. What I'm saying is, I'm up to it, there's a public burden. For Jobbik, this means, of course, that one half will be taken away with the Court of Auditors and the other half will be taken away for protection, but at least this is something that we are happy to give, it makes sense, let it make sense! Let's look at the other items. First of all, the banking system was helped from above, and the Banking Association sat down to negotiate wisely. What I'm saying is that this has just been the basis of existence in this situation, so let's not get involved in everything just because it's a government move. But to stand in front of the cameras and tell them that there is a public burden, ladies and gentlemen, the banking system is involved in defence. How much, in a manner of speaking? Forty-five billion forints? What was the record profit of the banking system, the outstanding profit of the regional level over the past year, Mr. Secretary of State? Over 600 billion. How does 45 billion feel about that after they've been shoved around the neck with a little help through the Bank Alliance? Where's the public cargo, please? ! I'm not saying 50 percent for everyone, but at least don't lie to the camera, I beg you. Multi-corporates. We are talking about a lot of 36 billion, which is not only paid by foreign multi-networks, it is paid by Hungarian companies in the same way, the larger ones, and I say that if there is a public burden, there is no such problem. But, people, how much money does the multi-segment take out of Hungary untaxed this year? A thousand billion-dollar scale. Do you want $36 billion? Where's the public cargo, please? ! So I wish for courage, from every register, from every segment, to group the amounts that can be measured into the Hungarian employment protection fund, and to replace all salaries up to 80 percent, including those who have the job, those who have already lost this, and to put this whole system on hold with a dismissal stop. In the public sector, I think this is obvious, it is self-evident, but we also say to the multi-segment that, yes, we will help, we will make up for the wages, but in return, do not release the workforce, because we want to restart the economy in a matter of seconds, as the epidemic and the crisis caused by the epidemic are coming down. I'm committed to this vision, worldview, concept, any part of it being submitted, you can count on my support. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-04-08-54	Thank you very much. I know that everything in the world is connected to everything, but this, please, is an investment in the reconstruction of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, so please try to focus on this. A part of Mr Schanda's opinion is already being implemented, as Secretary of State Schanda will now be given the floor. Here you go.
u2020-04-08-55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I asked for the floor because I could only answer a fraction of the previous comments, but I am trying to speed it up by learning from the previous ones. [[12.20]] On the one hand, let me tell Congressman Varju that the container number has increased tenfold since the Chinese invested in the port of Pyreus. This means that they are planning for 75 years, and this shows that the responsible behaviour that we are doing, that we do not want to miss this opportunity, Hungary cannot miss this opportunity. It is evident that this is necessary. The EU asked why we are not making this development from EU funds. There is no EU resource for this now, and this has been published in other contributions. What is EU funding for rail development is spent, and, as I said, the government plans to spend at least that much on rail development in the next period, but there was no EU money for this case. He mentioned all kinds of corruption issues here. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that in railway and subway matters, you should be given more self-criticism and self-discipline. A regular procedure has been carried out here, which the European Union has otherwise monitored. At least believe them, they said everything was fine - if they don't believe us anymore. He also raised the question of settlements. The fact is, the settlements along the railway line will be better off. After renovation, it can only be better: faster transport and new noise walls will be prepared for 50 kilometres. So the people there are important to us, and we agree on that, and we are doing everything we can to make sure that they are better off with this development, and not worse. Mr. Crusade here, too, criticized Secretary Retvári in his absence. Allow me to say that, indeed, it is always surprising to us that, as a green party, they are opposed to rail investments. We just don't understand why they're starting here. We believe that this development is also necessary, and that its utilisation supports this, and that it would once again be transferred back to the ten million containers per year. I also said that we were spending on the railway elsewhere, right, that was a question, that he considered other improvements more important. Developments are also being made in other areas. I have already talked about the development of the line, but allow me to mention the development and installation of KISS, FLIRT motor trains, which really makes a more meaningful contribution to the better quality of these transport solutions. We also started an economic policy debate. Here, in keeping with Mr President's guidance, I am trying to answer this briefly. We agree with the patriot's economic policy idea, so we really need Hungary to be able to produce as much as possible, but without China, we would be in trouble and allow me to respond to his comment that now the protective equipment comes by train or by plane. I myself have spent long nights and days making these shipments appear on time, so I am well aware that you have come by plane, please believe me. I would be more restful if I didn't know these details, but the fact is that, nevertheless, I say this question once again - that freight transport from China towards Europe and towards Hungary is necessary and will be necessary in the coming decades, and it would be a shame to deny it. You yourself have suggested, Mr President, that this is necessary here in the current epidemiological emergency. Once again, we believe that we need to help and support the economy by investing, not by giving aid to people, but by supporting them to get to work, to keep their jobs, and, by the way, to have real new opportunities for them. This investment will create countless jobs and provide livelihoods for countless people. Mr Tordai also talked about a lot of things, including why we are discussing this law now, why the government submitted it. What I'm saying is, if I understand what you're saying right, then whatever we're doing, it's a problem for him. If Parliament negotiates laws, the problem is, if it doesn't negotiate, then the problem is, if we have hats, the problem is, if we don't have one, that's the problem. We think it is an important matter, and it must move forward, so it is right that Parliament has put this on its agenda and that we can discuss it in substance now. I repeat once again, we are talking about an economic defence issue, with the help of which we can give people jobs and livelihoods; all of this through a much more favourable loan than the market, which does not mean that Hungary is vulnerable, because the Member has also asked about them. We've heard a lot here, too. Allow me once again to say that there has been no and no infringement proceedings on the part of the European Union in connection with the project, and since related media news has appeared in the Hungarian public, this has been recognised by the European Union itself, and said two things, dear pro-European and constantly cheering for the European Union, on the one hand the Union welcomes the investment and says that it is compatible with EU law. These two things have also been described. Moreover, the procurement procedure itself has been carried out by applying the EU Public Procurement Directive, and I must therefore also reject the criticisms in this regard. We know about Mr Tordai and the Dialogue that they are anti-development and that they are sometimes anti-developmental, but we need to draw his attention to the need for vehicles to be able to travel on this line at speeds of 160 km/h, not only that we would like to do so, but also that the European Union requires us to do the right thing. In this area, this network element must be able to run at least that much for railway vehicles. In addition, they will be able to use this not only in freight transport, but, as I said earlier, also in multimillion-dollar passenger and passenger traffic, which makes it possible to bring Budapest and Belgrade closer together in substance. And we do not call EU money free money, and I would definitely suggest this to ourselves. Mrs Bernadett Wind is no longer here, so let us be careful, because it would not be fair to speak with the momentum she spoke to me. As a Christian Democrat politician, I challenge this, and I just want to say that I wish him an unhateful Easter. As regards further comments, I would like to point out to Mr Balczó that we think that we should work together with China, which has a common economic advantage. The economic protection action plan has come up here, and it must be an important part of it, that decided developments have to be implemented, because this will give Hungarian people a livelihood and a job. The treason from DK makes me feel a little strong. I'd rather not say anything about it because it wouldn't be stylish. And of course, I refuse to say such words to me, but I think we should keep calm. I would like to point out to Mr Székely, which I have already said, that we are also talking about an economic defence issue, and I would also like to signal to Mr Z. Kárpát that this is indeed a development that will create new jobs and create jobs for defence. [[12.30]] And as we have already talked about it, it is not the same credit arrangement that the IMF had, so let's not compare the two, it is a credit facility with better opportunities than the market. In addition, everything was discussed here, but I will try not to respond to them in accordance with the presidential warning, and tomorrow's committee meeting will certainly have the opportunity to discuss them, which is linked to the economic protection action plan. But I'd like to draw attention to two things. On the one hand, the budget works without any new money, the existing items can be transferred. There's nothing surprising about this, we're doing it as part of the economic protection action plan. With the new money, I don't know what he was thinking or what he was referring to, but it's just that the economic protection plan is about transferring from existing lines to others and then using it to protect them. I suggest we consider this the right solution. I understand that Jobbik wants a tax increase, but we don't support that. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oh, no!]] It has been said that this is indeed necessary in certain areas. We do not support this, nor do we support the fact that, in principle, in relation to the banking system, although it is not my place to protect the banks, of course, we are putting too much pressure on them. Let's not forget that there is already 3000 billion forints of relief for businesses and families from the moratorium on repayment that the government has decided on before, which has implications for the banking system as well. What I also have to say about Mr President's speech is that we think that spending it on aid instead of on development would be a disaster; this is a difference between us. We think that we need to spend it on making improvements, creating jobs, and people getting wages and salaries. And we don't want Jobbik's opinion on giving up identity. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-08-56	Thank you very much. There are two-minute speeches coming up. Congressman László Varju, DK!
u2020-04-08-57	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. Well, just try to answer me. I appreciate you trying, but you haven't made much progress yet. What he's doing right now is you're selling one of these bubble chocolates, but you're selling the air at a chocolate price in this project; that's the lie in that, and you're protecting it. I object to this, and you have no right to do so until you are unable to resolve the fact that the Hungarian people are important to you in this situation. You betray small businesses, betray small businesses under five who refuse to pay their basic wages, so that otherwise they do not starve to death. You are betraying public companies, municipal companies, where people are already being dismissed because, by the way, budget resources have been taken away from them. Instead of helping the local governments, they take money from them and hold it back. You betray families who are unable to raise the family allowance even double. Instead of this solution, they spend on such a hopeless, pointless project. They spend nearly 1,000 billion forints a hundred and sixty or a few kilometers instead of helping families. In the coming years, if you want to work this out on credit, don't spend it on a few railway tracks, but on those millions, the families you're about to betray. Don't do this. Help and save businesses and the unemployed, because they are more and more every day, even if that doesn't interest you. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-08-58	Thank you. Congressman László Cook, MSZP, in two minutes!
u2020-04-08-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, There is a lot coming from China now, and I think that this kind of thinking should teach us one thing: these capacities must also be created in Hungary. This is not a Hungarian problem, the whole world was produced in China, because it is cheaper in China, because in China it is faster, better, efficient, it arrives quickly, and then, in a period from November to February around, everyone has learned how much disadvantage this has. So I suggest that when we talk about economic recovery tomorrow afternoon instead of announcements tomorrow afternoon, we talk about this - that too. Crawling to another point in this debate, you are always throwing your loans at our heads and now we have at least heard why they were bad loans, but what you are now taking on is good loans. Secretary of State, credit, credit, it must be repaid, and last but not least, we see that you have found very good, predictable, valued partners: Vladimir Putin's Russia, from which the investment in Paks is financed, in which the Hungarians are indebted for many years, and now you have found the Chinese export-import bank, from which you will take 85 percent of this project, which is so predictable, a good partner, that the details and sensitive data of this project need to be encrypted, because otherwise, if this were known, it would affect the foreign policy space of the Hungarian Foreign Ministry. Are they the predictable partners who provide good credit? However, I think there is a very big difference between the two: one borrowing Hungary's sovereignty and Hungary's foreign policy scope is either limited or not limited. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-08-60	László Lóránt Keresztes, Leader of the Group, in two minutes!
u2020-04-08-61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd just like to start with a quick return. State Secretary Tamás Schanda referred to the question of identity change. You can also see that in cases where, say, you can agree with certain business circles or business circles agree in the background, you tend to point to Brussels to see that Brussels approved this project, and it was the same with regard to the Paks enlargement. They're basically setting up Brussels as an enemy, but it's a reference for you. Similarly, Mr Secretary of State, I think that it is not enough to talk about patriot economic policy, that it must be implemented, and this is also a very serious identity crisis, that you consider it a nation strategy interest to serve the great interests of China by building such an infrastructure with the money of Hungarian taxpayers. In fact, I asked for a two-minute speech in order to ask Mr Bányai a clarification question. I just asked who the Member who saw such grounding documents was then indicated by the Member. I'd like to get information on this, exactly what documents you've seen. Here, in particular, the Member saw such a foundational budget as to what would cost HUF 5 billion for a kilometer of rail development? [[Gábor Bányai: 3.5!]] In total, more than 5 billion forints. But I would like to know how it could have happened that my fellow members of the Government saw such documents, and I, as a Member of Parliament, have asked a lot of questions and made a request to Minister Szijjártó that I would like to see them, I have not seen them, and now they are preparing to encrypt them. By the way, the congressman has also spoken about the return, but I have drawn attention to the fact that the debate here is still about who will use it at all. So, you're talking about encryption, and about that, Mr. Secretary of State, you said that Chinese business interests should be encrypted. Was it in the business interest of China to guarantee that the Chinese would like to take advantage of, use and direct certain quantities of goods to the railway line with the Hungarian taxpayer's money? Have you seen such a guarantee, my fellow Member? Thank you.
u2020-04-08-62	Thank you very much. Please, we will now return to the normal speeches that have been announced in advance. I can tell you that there are six more Members who want to speak, some who want to speak for the third time. Of course, everyone has the right to speak, but everyone should consider how valuable they can enrich this debate. Thus, Mr. János Stummer, representative of Jobbik, will follow. Here you go.
u2020-04-08-63	Are we keeping secrets, comrades? Encrypting? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Valuable thoughts!]] The coronation hasn't taken place in a week, and we're already here? We are already there a week after the coronation, that you believe that Hungarians should not by chance know what you have done with their Chinese business partners. [[12.40]] I'm sorry to say this, Mr. Secretary, but it seems that you are on the other side of the horse in this particular government. Do you think it's time for your buddies' 600 billion-dollar business to be swept under the rug? Is it time for the Prime Minister's son-in-law to go to port for $2 billion? Or is it time for the Prime Minister to put 18 billion forints from one pocket to another for the Matra Thermal Power Plant? Dear gentlemen, Be kind and tell the Prime Minister not only to China, but also from Nagykanizsa to Kisvárda, to send scouts around, to see what day-to-day problems the Hungarian people are experiencing in this country right now and in these weeks. And notice that these days, you shouldn't be dealing with your dirty business, you should be dealing with your real problems. But if you can't do this alone, Prime Minister, let me help you with what you should be dealing with these days. For example, families who lost their jobs, livelihoods, daily bread in these weeks. Family mothers who are sleeping with the stomach curve at home at night should be dealt with in these days, wondering how many more shopping supplies will be sufficient in addition to these prices. With the family fathers who wake up with the gastric curve of how they're gonna pay the electric bill next month when they won't pay at the beginning of the month. And what else should they be dealing with, what else should they be talking about, thinking about? For example, those who have received so far should now put me in this particular joint. Tell the people of Mészáros, about whom this Budapest-Belgrád railway development is also about, to the Mészáros-types, to the Tiborcz-types, to the Garancsi-types, that we have had enough of this grating, and that the stolen goods will return to the Hungarian people in these difficult days, in these difficult weeks. That's what you should be dealing with right now, my dear gentlemen. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-04-08-64	As a representative requesting a normal word, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-04-08-65	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, What I started in my two-minute speech, I would like to express my thoughts. I have already told you about the encryptions around the house of the Gyurcsány Party and the MSZP, and this is only the beginning of the list, but I do not want to deal with this anymore, nor why Hungarian taxpayers have suffered 2800 billion HUF damage on only two motorways in the context of the PPP scheme. Rather, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, when we are accused of anything like this, I have not heard from any of the opposition representatives in any of the budgetary debates in recent years what this large item is in the ongoing payment of PPP constructions. Projects 2006-07 are still charging hundreds of billions of HUF for the budget in 2019-20 because you said at the time that you did not make the investment out of loans, but in PPPs, but that the country was indebted and that the government debt was above 80% of GDP, while, in principle, these PPP investments were justified by the fact that they did not want to take out loans. So none of them succeeded, because of their buddies, PPP schemes were passed on to Hungarian taxpayers, and then they owed this country a debt. But we've talked about this. Congressman, just answer the question of when the M6 motorway will have a return, because at present it will only be a loss, more than 1300 billion to Hungarian taxpayers. There we are not talking about any returns, but when will it be zero at all, and when will the Hungarian taxpayers stop producing losses. You'll feel free to talk about that when you try to keep us accountable for all sorts of other matters in such a big voice. I would also urge you to be cautious, like Mr Secretary of State, about Chinese goods, because we see that assistance is coming from China at the moment. Help has no ideology, I'd like to add that. Anyone who gives us help will be thanked with honor, as it should be done according to order and manner. Today will arrive more than 140 respirators to Hungary and millions of masks, only today, and this is one day's shipment. They're all coming from China on the air bridge. Of course, Mr. Group Leader, these instruments are not coming in on board a ship right now. Otherwise, it is obviously the cost-effective solution for long-term freight transport, but now the time, every minute counts in defence, and thank God, we are not even where Belgium, to burn their existing supplies in a warehouse to free up the place for immigrants to be accommodated in 2017 or in. We're not even here. But I think that we should be more careful with these criticisms now, because we were able to buy 400 thousand copies of one of the promising medicines from China, and China was only willing to sell it to four countries. Obviously, this is also because we have completed the adjustment and the "dare to be small" foreign policy, which we have seen here in Gyurcsányist times, and that is replaced by a foreign policy based on mutual respect, but a foreign policy rejecting double standards. I think, as I said, that help has no ideology, so we have to thank it wherever it comes from, and at the moment we see this help coming from the east. So I would also ask you, in this situation, if you have referred to the epidemic situation in all your speeches, then, in this epidemic situation, do not continue to subject Chinese aid and Chinese goods to all kinds of abusive words. Of course, we agree with many in this House that shorter supply chains are important, that local production and consumption of local products are important. I think that the government has made a lot of progress in this area over the past eight to ten years, but obviously we still have a lot of work to do here. Support for small businesses, support for primary producers, tax exemptions in different sectors, tax exemptions, support for young entrepreneurs is all for this purpose, but in this world, these longer supply chains cannot be replaced or reduced to a maximum. It can't be, you're chasing fantasies here to start buying products exclusively from the territory of Hungary starting tomorrow, and this is how we solve the domestic supply chain. That's not possible. Of course, there is a need to involve domestic products and domestic care in domestic trade, domestic supply, but it does not trigger the global supply chain. We see that Hungary has a geographical position. We can call this any way, I think that this geographical situation here in the Carpathian Basin has caused us many difficulties in the history of the last thousand years, because Hungary is in the way of various conquering armies and wars by having such a geographical location in the Carpathian Basin here in Europe. So far, this position has often been at our disadvantage. Now, let's use it to our advantage. Now, in the current epidemic, when all countries have closed their borders, we see that they are constantly knocking on the foreign minister's door virtually, by telephone, at a video conference - to allow citizens to cross the humanitarian corridor to different countries, because the way is through us. For once, let us take advantage of the fact that we are the way across Europe, that Chinese goods and other goods in the Far East can flow to Europe through us. This investment is not about ensuring the supply of Hungary here, and the goods will arrive in Hungary from the Greek ports, and will remain here, and will be bought up by the Hungarians. No! What we are talking about here is that we want to be a European supply centre, to arrive in the European Union through us, to spread goods to the European Union through us, to Europe. This is about taking advantage of our geographical potential and using to our advantage the geographical potential that is found here in the Carpathian Basin. Read, ladies and gentlemen, the European Court of Auditors, two or three years ago, a huge report on rail freight in Europe. The European Court of Auditors also regrets that the proportion has not increased in recent years, and road freight has not been sufficiently triggered by rail freight. The main statement of the European Court of Auditors was that because rail freight is slow compared to the road, that speed trains are needed, that fast freight trains and fast rails are needed, it can replace road freight. And then this project will be green, Mr. Head of the Cross, so that if you can exceed the average speed of the trucks, the average speed of the railway. Only then will he be competitive, and then he will be able to replace it. This is what the European Court of Auditors found in 2017 that investments should be made to increase speed in the rail sector of freight transport, thereby competing in the carriage of goods by road, trucks and trucks. I think it's very important. Let's look at some data on what the Hungarian railway looked like in 2010, because here we find rather sad data. Here, you have made us aware of the railway lines that need to be renovated. Of course, we still have a lot of work ahead of us, and we have never denied that there are railway lines in Hungary that should be renewed and that various modernisation investments should be made. [[12.50]] However, let's see that in 2010, the railway fleet serving as a public transport service in Hungary had a significant ageing, an average of 35-40 years old railway wagons, as well as a very low number of more flexible motor trains used at the time in Europe. In December 2009, passenger transport on 27 railway lines completely disappeared and on one line partially, and on top of that in February 2010 there was a rough tariff increase in the inter-local segment. This is what Mr. Head of the Cross said that this was the period of rail destruction between 2009 and 2010. Let us look at the fact that by 2010, the state of the 7712 km long railway network in Hungary continued to deteriorate, and the call for support for the EU budget cycle started in 2007 was very slow. The Hungarian section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line has already been updated for the last time in the 70s. In the 350 km range between the two capitals, the journey time was nearly eight hours in 2010, the running costs of the railway infrastructure exceeded the resources, and the debt of the MÁV group increased to HUF 300 billion by 2010. You're throwing numbers here, we can agree on this cost of about 800 billion forints we've been talking about here. Nearly half of this was the debt of MÁV only 300 billion by 2010, you have so destroyed this industry and the period of rail destruction. These are just a few numbers that we had to face in 2010, but I think that we should take advantage of Hungary's geographical situation. All I would like to say to János Stummer's accusations is that I understand that you are tense, I understand that you are nervous, you have failed to take part in the defense against the coronal virus by voting, you have failed to press a button to protect the health of Hungarian people, so you are now tense, so you are making accusations. Let's put it aside, and we'll be happy to cover it up and cooperate, start a sensible debate, and, of course, your accusations will be rejected. Read the law and think a little bit about the segment that it is not the next year, it is not the next two years, it is the next 10-20 years, so that Hungary can be a hub in a supply chain, a distribution chain. Obviously, this investment is essential. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-08-66	Thank you very much. János Volner is next, independent. Here you go.
u2020-04-08-67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, As it stands, in 22 I will continue in civil life, in the business sector, I will not be bound by party discipline, I will not be bound by political discipline, I will not be bound by the right, I will be able to express my opinion as a representative of national interests and I will always be radically representative. First of all, I think it is a political mistake on the part of the government to bring this proposal here right now. China is currently a red poster in politics, and I am referring not only to the color of the Chinese party state, ladies and gentlemen, but also to the fact that the leaders of the Western strong states are now in a completely different way to China and its world power as the Hungarian government otherwise does. I understand, Mr Secretary of State, that the Members are talking about China's assistance to Hungary, and that is why we should be grateful to it at the moment. For the record, this help comes for money, with a substantial surcharge, and the Chinese don't give anything for free. There is also a price to pay, and we may pay the price with this railway contract and many others. Let me draw a parallel, ladies and gentlemen, the current railway investment is also a previously planned, at least for the time being, a failed railway investment. Perhaps even some people who are involved in transport policy or wider economic policy remember the idea of the V0 railway ring. The old plan with which Hungarian politics was flirting, especially the post-2010 Orbán government, when it came to the idea that Budapest should be avoided from the south with the east-west traffic, because, I quote the official justification, it was practically the same bullshit, and I am sorry for the expression that is going on now: the transfer capacity of the Ferencváros Freight Station in Budapest is limited to rail freight traffic. Well, I was stunned when I read these professional materials, because during the period before the regime change there were over 100 million tons of rail freight, then interestingly, this could be allowed through Budapest, and later, with an unacceptable justification, they tried to explain why the V0 railway ring was needed. And now we're running the same circle spookily, but now we're off the V0 railway ring, and now we want to build a new railroad for the Chinese for a lot of money. Let me recommend a new perspective to the Fidesz MEPs, especially the pro-government MEPs. Isn't what happened to this railway construction, like what happened to other railway and motorway constructions in Hungary? It is a little similar, ladies and gentlemen, as a country currently on the periphery, our situation is, for example, that of India colonized by the English. When the British began to build roads in India, they were not led by the philanthropic pity that poor Indians should not walk in the mud, but by how to create the infrastructure in the colony that was strictly necessary for the exploitation of the colony in the interests of England. And now the same thing is happening in Hungary. We are not building this railway line for railway freight, we are not building it for the Hungarian people, we are not going to have the goods from Hungarian companies on this railway line on the road to Western Europe. On the contrary, we are once again at what is happening with EU support, by building infrastructure for foreign companies established here, with EU money, so that we can represent their business interests. I would like to point out to my fellow Members here that when Mr Öttinger, the EU Commissioner for Budget, spoke about the fact that Germany is not a net contributor to this system, but a net beneficiary of this system, he was indeed right. And here we are talking directly about this bill, that we are not building a railway structure for the Chinese in Hungary with European Union money, but we are borrowing directly from them in order to succeed in building this railway structure, which is guaranteed to be used by non-Hungarian companies in their own interests. In any case, I would like to present to my fellow Members the experience of their residential forums. When I asked people in public forums, for example, I invited people who were intellectual representatives of a given area and who live on a given site - I always asked them that if they thought that these railway investments would be profitable and that Hungarian companies would use these railway capacities, then they should start to list those large Hungarian companies and industrial companies that would fill these railway trains with goods. Of course, the answer was astounding silence. It is important to see how we judge that the railway investment in the bill that comes before us is expensive or inexpensive. There is no doubt that a legitimate argument, mentioned by the Secretary of State, is a double pair of rails, an expensive factor. By the way, in parentheses, I have spoken to people who have been working in railway construction for a long time, and they have said that on the sand of the lowland you cannot simply build a railway road, because you have to go down to the load layer of the soil, and you have to solve it with a piled technique, so that the soil can take on that extraordinary load. Technically, this can undoubtedly increase the investment. However, it is very important to see that everyone has said this railway investment to be expensive. There's still a question of this trail. Ladies and gentlemen, a trail that carefully avoids all industrial areas in Hungary is absolutely shocking to me. So I propose something to the attention of my fellow Members, once again, I have been dealing with economic policy for a long time, including transport policy: Rail Cargo Hungaria is Hungary's largest rail freight company, which has an extremely professional management. [[13.00]] I would like to point out to my fellow Members that Imre Kovács, former CEO of the company, is currently sitting on the board of directors of the Austrian company, and we are shocked to see that as a Hungarian, he is practically running an international large company in Austria. Well, there were a few managers who could do that, let's be honest. When we think about the role of Rail Cargo in the railway freight transport of Hungary and who is its biggest customer, we should again be shocked to see that this planned railway line avoids Hungary's largest railway freight customer, Dunaferr. Ladies and gentlemen, according to the information published by Rail Cargo in the press, the employment of five hundred people is closely linked to Dunaferr, partly with the MÁV TRACKTION, the Zahon railway transpo, and partly with the Rail Cargo Hungaria, which currently solves the employment of five hundred people. And instead of reaching this industrial area with this railway line, we will, of course, carefully avoid Hungary's largest industrial supplier and customer. It is very important to see how false what is happening in Europe is. While the leaders of the European Union continue to talk about what we should think about China on the basis of different moral, political, and basically liberal considerations, and how we should think about the Chinese party state, while the different states of Europe always make their own little business with China and Russia and simply start doing business with them. Such was the embargo on Russians when Russia, which would have been closer to Europe rather than removed from the embargoed policy, was virtually pushed away from ourselves by us, Europeans, we citizens of the European Union, and we did the madness of practically letting the Russian market pass over to the American companies that had entered the Russian market laughing at their hands and took our former place there. The same thing is happening here in Pepita with this Chinese investment. Once again, we will see to it that we lose the market, but this time within Europe, within our own continent, we will lose the market as a result of China's large expansion. It is important to see that a small country can have a separate deal, as the Germans had a separate deal with the Russians to build the Nord Stream 1 and 2 gas pipelines. This business came in extremely handy for German companies and the German economy, while leading politicians in Europe are talking about how much distance we should keep with the Russians. Could be a separate deal, could be part of a separate deal, that now the Chinese will deliver medical equipment here before, say, another country for good money. There may be such considerations in this proposal, but as a whole, it can be said that, in a broader sense, the Western world, in a narrower sense, the European Union, in a narrower sense for our country, is the economic advance of China, its role in world politics, its appreciation of its geopolitical situation, is detrimental to us, and it is not good, it should be fundamentally done against it. It is very important to see when we look at the further future of this railway line: when my fellow Members say, and I understand and see the logic in this, that we must ensure that Hungary is the distributor of this large volume of Chinese goods traffic, 10 million containers annually, and its logistics centre, we must ensure that this happens here. Ladies and gentlemen, I have some bad news for you. To live with a hunting comparison, when China appears as a proud deer and steps on the fresh snow, then the European states are churning around its dead door like sparrows and waiting for the bites to fall on them. That's practically exactly what's happening here. In this case, China's favor is sought by all European states. Believe me, it is the same idea that my fellow Member Nacsa formulated for Slovaks, Serbs and Poles. Everyone wants to be friends with China, and this many, many separate deals, by the way, are going to put us in the right place for our Europeans. This is the end of the globalized world, which we now see the negative consequences of during the coronal virus epidemic. I would suggest to my fellow Members that, if this proposal is to be implemented, it will probably be pushed over by the majority of governments, but I will certainly not support it, because my professional conviction is completely opposed to this proposal - if this proposal is to be pushed through, let us at least look at what we can really do in order to benefit from this investment. What can we do to make this possible? If, for example, the Hungarian Government had an ambition to join Rail Cargo's company in Hungary, Rail Cargo Hungaria, and took a certain position here, according to the government's plans, it would have contributed locomotives through the MÁV TRACTION to this railway company, and would have obtained a share in this way - it is also a logical assumption that we should start moving on this railway as a regionally owned company at least in part. For the time being, of course, it is still a question of what, since, within Eastern Europe, rail freight in the north-south is very modest compared to the freight traffic in the east-west. But what should have been done was, if such plans existed at all, to be added to this bill, and at least those policy makers who do not want to cut and pursue political mud throwing, see the relevant payback calculations. Let us know about the specific agreements, their special arrangements that can underpin the profitability and return on this railway line. But we don't know anything about that yet. And once again, fellow Members, I have the most spooky feeling about the construction of the V0 railway ring, when nothing in the world has justified the plan for a new major railway investment. Here we are, and for Hungary, I do not see this fantasy, it costs extremely much, and the return on this entire investment is extremely vague. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-04-08-68	Thank you very much. László László Keresztes, Leader of the Group, LMP!
u2020-04-08-69	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, In fact, I do not wish to abuse the patience of this House, but I must ask you a few more questions, because although Mr Secretary of State has already answered the questions in two rounds, he has not said everything. First of all, I would like to ask you once again that we can see an effort for another transport route, an alternative transport route, an alternative maritime route aimed at the port of Trieste in northern Italy. I would remind you once again that it was Minister Szijjártó who said that if there was a logistics centre, a Hungarian-owned port, then all the transport needs of all Hungarian and Hungarian companies would be met. We know that the simplifications that can accommodate ships with different capacities are not true, because the Trieste port is able to receive all capacity vessels. It is also apparent from the Chinese efforts to invest in the port of Trieste. I would like to ask the Secretary of State or my fellow members of the Government to reflect on how they see this. This goes back to the question of what guarantees there are that they now want to encrypt the most important documents on the basis of Chinese business interests. But if you make such an expensive investment with the Hungarian taxpayers' money, it is not in the Chinese business interest to see the Chinese take any guarantees. Once again, I look at Congressman, who has seen certain documents that we have not seen before: have you seen such commitment? Is there a contractual clause that the Chinese will guarantee that this railway line, if it is built, will be used? I'd like to continue with the questions. The transport policy experts also said that in this situation the port of Pyreus is too far from the direction of Budapest, it simply will not be understood to be such a long distance, precisely because there is the alternative route on the Adriatic. Although it will take much more time to sail there, it will be much cheaper, it will save a transhipment, and it will be much cheaper to use the sea road, and there is already a railway infrastructure from Trieste to Central and Western Europe. I would also like to see a concrete guarantee of what professional considerations, certain underlying documents they hide and are now encrypting, exactly what calculations, what documents, what guarantees are there, that this is even relevant professionally. My next question is: we are talking about a thousand billion HUF investment that the Hungarian section of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line can be renovated. The question is that even if the section between Budapest and Belgrade is completed, even if we look at this transport route to Pyreus, only a fraction of it will be renovated, so it will not be able to implement this transport demand in itself. [[13.10]] I would also like to see the guarantees in the underlying secret, now encrypted, underlying documents, exactly what length of time, as they are counting on, how this whole phase will be built, and how the implementation will be carried out by the other countries, which have already been mentioned in the debate. I would very much like to see the detailed budget for what the Secretary of State has set out in a few words, that, because it is a two-track section, a two-track section, and an extension of the two-track section, I would like to see the exact budgets in terms of the fact that, indeed, the question has already been formulated here, what is going to cost more than HUF 5 billion for a kilometer of investment. The next thing you know, Congressman Nacsa, is that it is a great opportunity that this Eastern transport will take place through us. Now, I would also like to see the exact calculations of why, so exactly what form Hungary will benefit from this, and what are the guarantees for these. Congressman Volner mentioned that everyone would like to take part in this, but that if they want to have the Hungarian taxpayers pay a thousand billion to make it happen, this is the investment that is essentially in the interest of the Chinese and, of course, of Lőrinc Mészáros's companies, what are the guarantees that, if this shipment is made, in any way other than the fact that these trains will pass through Hungary, the trains will benefit Hungary, and why exactly. So we want to see these guarantees. About such elements should be included in a feasibility study, which should not be encrypted, but should be made public, this should be put into a meaningful professional and social debate, and then it could be debated in substance before the Parliament. Compared to this, you have encrypted these documents, which means that some pro-government Members could have obtained them, but this will certainly not be possible after the adoption of the bill we are discussing today. The Secretary of State has referred me back to replying to the Secretary of State of Rétvári. I have had relatively many debates with Mr Rétvári State Secretary, and in this debate I no longer had the opportunity to reply that Hungary's Green Party was anti-rail. I do not think you are worthy of this, and I do not think it is worthy of the quality of the debate that you have simplified it. I said in very detailed terms in my speech as the lead speaker that we would be very pleased if this thousand billion HUF was spent on renovating the extremely poor and otherwise exploited and important Hungarian railway infrastructure. And what opportunities would there be in that? I mentioned the journey between Pécs and Budapest, it was three and a half hours, before the change of regime it was about two hours and fifty minutes. TGV has been mentioned here by colleagues; if an infrastructure like TGV were to be implemented here, it would not be about three and a half hours, it would be 50 minutes to get from Pécs to Budapest. When will there be a source to implement such developments on the domestic rail network, which really serves the Hungarian people's travel needs and serves the interests of the Hungarian nation in terms of transport? From what source will the infinitely degraded Hungarian domestic infrastructure and railway infrastructure be renovated? You have rightly, very strongly and rightly criticised the Balliberal Governments, Minister Kóka and others, in terms of the conduct of a rail-destructive policy. In ten years, how many of you have restarted, or how many of you have restarted transport or transportation, previously closed by Balliberal governments? How many of these wings have been renovated? And if you are going to spend a thousand billion forints on this now, what exactly is the timing and source of the opportunity for me to repeat the reconstruction of the extremely poor domestic railway infrastructure, and thus finally give the countryside an opportunity to catch up on the decline of the country's typical and visible forced migration? So, I repeat, we are not anti-railers, we consider development serving Chinese interests and serving the interests of Lőrinc Mészáros companies, without guarantee of utilisation and return to be contrary to national interests. And then, right, investments. I agree that there is a need for investment, and it is not a task to stop investment, but it is not possible to maintain meaningless investments. It's practically a one-time construction, a one-time job, and then it's standing there, don't give it to me, God, it'll add maintenance costs. Well, we need to support investments that make sense after that, for example, railway renovations that then increase or improve domestic or foreign transport opportunities, which really makes sense, which has taken advantage of, whether of the development of suburban transport, which still has enormous congestion, and it would indeed be necessary to carry out such investments. So we are not investment, we are not anti-development, we are against pointless, inexplicable and inexplicable investments, and I say that this is against our national interests. And I would very, very much like to know that I hope that the Secretary of State will answer this - exactly what kind of grounding documents, what feasibility study has been carried out, what did it cover, and how could it have been that some pro-government Members have received it, and the opposition representatives have not received it, and on what basis, for what reason do they intend to encrypt them now? Thank you.
u2020-04-08-70	Thank you very much. Congressman Gábor Bányai, Fidesz!
u2020-04-08-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Take your warnings seriously, allow me to quote a Petőfi poem. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Let's hear it!]] The quote comes from the verse Vasuton, and this is the part of it, "A hundred railways, a thousand!" Do it, do it! / Let them run through the world, / Like the body of the blood vessels. My fellow Members are not arguing with me, with us, but with Sándor Petőfi. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: In what verse is this?! Odds to the Chinese?!]] If we wanted to unscrew this, so if we could just... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: You have convinced me, Gabor, done! Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] But that is why I have more persuasive arguments, Mr Z. Mr. Kárpat. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: No, it was the best!]] Calm down! The point is: during the debate, and this is not the last comment, because, as far as the Secretary of State is concerned, we have heard many arguments, but each one of them has pointed out that God forbid us to develop a railroad, because it is in the interest of the Chinese, we have nothing good at all, and that we are practically ruining our future. Well, let's take it one step at a time. Congressman Ander was the first speaker for this debate after my first comment, and there he spoke of 2,400 years of return. I said in a two-minute period not so long ago that the opposition payback calculation works by dividing the total cost by the price of student tickets, so fact and truth never in life is worth building this railroad, but it would not be worth building the new line of Pécs, which Mr Kereszt is so fond of, and he is right on his own side. That's what many people have said, causing economic damage. How can the economic damage be defined if the Chinese goods arriving in Europe weigh nearly 1 billion tonnes, and the port of Pyreus now brings 90 million tonnes of goods to Europe, and they want to expand it to 140 million tonnes the following year? And there's Koper, there's Trieste, there's more... help me out! I said koper... so there's more ports up on the Adriatic, and there's tens of millions of tons of goods coming in each. But not all goods can be moved through the same corridor, so there are networks. In northern Europe, many ports receive Chinese goods. Once again, nearly a billion tons of goods are coming from China. But Europe also brings close to 1 billion tons of goods into that region, we are talking about a back and forth relationship, not just Chinese goods coming here. China has done better this kind of policy, its expansion than Western Europe or the European Community as a whole or the United States in North America, that is without doubt a fact. They asked me how the cost increase is. Please, let's say it's true that I am an agricultural farmer, but I produce some things, I'm in the middle of an investment, and based on my planned budget for 2016, prices have now gone 40 percent free, and there was no public procurement, there was no Lőrinc Mészáros, there was no István Tiborcz in my business, I am doing my own development and the prices have gone. It is very difficult to keep a budget with such price increases as they were due to economic growth. For the market has an increasing demand for goods, its means of production, machinery, infrastructure, and it is not satisfied by the industry, the construction industry is not convinced to build it and prices are going up; of course, the exodus will also put a shovel on it, but everywhere from Western Europe to Eastern Europe, I see that prices are getting out of control. And fact and fact: the cost increase is very bad in this case, too, but here is a fixed amount that the Hungarian State will take from the Chinese bank, which we cannot add more from China because it will be fixed, there will be no further detail, then it would only be from its own strength, which would be strange if we brought in an amendment later on that the 15 percent share should be increased to 25 percent. They also asked why we shouldn't be dealing with the 153 Kiskőrös-Kalocsa line. Well, please, it's nice, it's open, it's working, Glencore, an American company has an oil refinery on Cape near Kalocsa, and they use it, they use it, but there was no demand for passenger transport. There are 15-17 thousand people living in Kalocsa, there are no more people in the area, they have not been used. It was either an end point or another railway to the small-scale station, serving a city, not being able to provide passengers, so the passenger transport stopped, but industrial and freight transport is working. They told me why we weren't renovating his troubles, half-catholic lines. Well, please, most of these lines currently run on passenger transport, the railway is in good condition, trains on the Baja line can run smoothly at a speed of 100, this is a very high speed in Hungary today, not to mention the situation in Romania and Serbia. [[13.20]] They also said if we rebooted the loading lines. Yes, we have started over half of it, half of it has been restored from the period after the rail destruction in 2006-7. There was a big problem that they didn't work for four to five years, and practically all the railway lines, such as the Orosháza line, were rotting away. Will the terminals be implemented? Please, if you hope that the country will improve, that our economy will grow stronger, that we will not slide down, then yes, we must. It will be a historical, economic imperative to have terminals. Where there will be a distribution centre, there will be job creation, 20, 50, 100, but if there will be a plant, who knows how many hundreds, thousands of jobs there will be; Congressman Varju raised this. I'm asking you nicely, which is why I'm hoping you might trust that this country will not be in a worse position than it is now. Now the low point must soon be achieved by the epidemic, and we are going to get out of this, I am sure, because we have the will, and I hope you can do the same, but the point is, yes, in order to reap the benefits of this, we need the terminals. Here, Congressman Cook took over my sentence that I said that this would not be developed for passenger transport, but I did not say that there would be no passenger transport on it! Spend 560 billion net Hungarian forints so that I can get up from Kiskunhalas to the East Station in 65 minutes, that's bullshit, and I would ask the government to forget that. I say the same thing to Pécs, so that we don't spend 300, 400, 500, 600 billion because of the Crusade Congressman, to reduce his travel time. It makes sense if we can get an economic zone on those lines that can generate the costs of this, and it can generate its income. So ultimately there will be passenger transport on the Budapest-Belgrád line. There's gonna be a lot more people on it, I'm sure, because this is a fast transport solution, since it's about the 160 train, it's designed for 200, but it can't be 200, because there's no spatial crossings on it, so we'd have to lift it up anyway. I don't know, Mr. Crossman, how much a kilometer of TGV costs. Not the big one, the fastest one, but the lower one. 20 billion forints per kilometer. So I'd be happy once the government has enough money to build TGV on Pécs or even Kiskunhalas. Why didn't the Cegléd-Kecskemét-Szeged line become the 100 and 140 lines designated? On the Cegléd line, I don't know, you know, there's three train tracks on it, there's nowhere to develop two more. Which city should we tear down along it? Which one? There's nothing left to develop. Kecskemét could still fit a new pair of lines, a pair of rails, but after Cegléd's connection to the distribution hub, it's hard to do, and it's 60 kilometers away from this line, by the way. Not to mention that there are catastrophic conditions between Szeged and Subotica, although that project is being prepared from the source of an EU Corridor. It was said here that the RoLa had been neglected at the time. We didn't neglect him, we didn't need him. RoLa simply didn't want the Hungarian and the foreign freight forwarder to go after it, and therefore they were virtually gone. We know that a truck, using tolls, will pay a toll from 20 to 40 to 50 thousand forints, depending on the size of Hungary. Similarly, it must be competitive, which should make transport on the rail axis cheaper, because otherwise it is not competitive. Just the distance that goes from Pyreus to here carries the advantages of this, its competitive advantages. At the time, Rail Cargo was sold to the Austrian national railway company, remembering that, Congressman, it was in the government in 2008 for HUF 102.5 billion. It must have been a good deal if that's what the Austrians gave you. They make over 70 billion net forints a year. We didn't have to. Now we have a chance that your concession rights will expire, that the Hungarian railway, the Hungarian State Railways, will be able to use this new line from Kelebia to Hegyeshalom, and the rest. A Hungarian-owned cargo will be created, which will not be owned by the Austrians. Imre Kovács can come back, by the way, and we'd be happy to have you so good as a professional, so why not come back here and control this. In other words, perhaps this railroad will benefit us sooner or later. Once again, the 30 million tons of goods that Rail Cargo has brought so far, we'll be able to take over your shipment. We could have asked, as Congressman Nacsa has already said here - the 220 billion we lose on your motorways a year will be more absent from the renovation of our roads, the M6, M60 and the other PPP constructions. And let's not forget about loans: we did not take the EUR 20 billion loan, the big loan from the IMF and the World Bank for food and drink in 2008. In 2022, the first serious development call for this project would have been to László Szakács - it will be the first major investment, because until then the planning and licensing will have to proceed. Congressman Varju, you are right that the noise pressure will surely increase. In fact, if 10-20 train pairs will go up and down this north-south corridor every day, but standard, based on the plans I know of, that railway charges will be lined with noise-proof walls, if necessary, with tunnels, dressed to do as little damage as possible to those living there because of noise, because it would be difficult to break down, say, a part of the city, in order to build now, but there are also lines changes in the plans in several places. So 140 million tons of goods arrive in Pireus today, and this is the BuBe Act, and we believe that 30 million tons of goods are not an illusion that this much will come through this railway, and I would like to present the math to Mr Keresztes. You spoke of betraying national interests, my fellow Christian, which was offensive to me, but believe me, you were wrong. And I'm also indicating that this isn't a model train, so I'm telling him, so this isn't TT or the H0 model train in the miniverse, so the cost of this is different. Remember, the speed range between 120 and 160 requires a completely different safety device, completely different structure, breaking capacity, stretching and elasticity of the rails. Much, much more expensive is a 160-gauge railroad than the 120-gauge, more than 2.5-gauge. But in order for this to be a useful railway, which is why it has to be, they now require the speed of 160 in Europe. Next thing I know, about R-Cargo, I said this 35 million tons of merchandise, because I was wrong about it, I said 30, which is why it's very profitable for the Austrian company. Mr Balczó has already left, he has said that we are negotiating with this lousy China. All Western European states are negotiating with China, which has been said several times. This may not be nice, but don't forget that the one doctor who's been wiped out, who we're putting a hat on right now, that he's calling the world's attention to this virus, where is it for the Conte statement who said this plague would never be dangerous for the Italians. Go and see their graveyards, see who weeps at the graves of the Italians. So we're not sure that the Chinese are doing more harm to our countrymen than our Western European friends. Honourable Mr Z. Kárpát, why the railway lines do not go to Hungarians across the border: I respectfully indicate that Vojvodina is a Hungarian populated area and that the Budapest-Belgrád line goes through them. All Szabadka, Bácskatopolya, from Kishegyes, Verbász, Novi Sad and Hungarians are still living there, fortunately, leaving this railway line, so we opened up with this development, and it will be good for them too. But I also want to indicate that Minister Péter Szijjártó talked about it in Cluj-Napoca and offered a plan to build a Budapest-Kolozsvár-Marosvásárhely fast train, which we received or did not receive an answer to, he will tell us this one day. So it's not up to us to connect Transylvania to the high-speed rail network. And then a little bit of math before I say, let me tell you, so good morning to everyone, China has been here for a long time, hasn't just come into the European markets. Without China, the European economy does not work, nor does the world economy. China may not be loved or loved, I'm not so fond of their food, I can't really eat anything but Szechuan sauce, but I respect that their culture is a huge culture. Chinese culture is one of the world's leading cultures. Let's not look down on the Chinese people because there's a Communist party above them. We're not dealing with those, we're not talking about the communists, we're not talking about the former ones here, we're not talking about the communists. For us, this is an investment that serves the future, which will be able to raise the Hungarian transport market, the Hungarian transport market, and will create and extract the benefits for all citizens of the Hungarian state. What does this little math mean then? Dear Member, this 140 million tonnes of goods must somehow come to Northern Europe. At present, a million or two tons of goods are being brought up on this 150 railway line, I don't know the exact number, because it's from Rail Cargo, but the point is, it has to come somehow, either by road or by rail, because they don't bring containers on planes. Do you think if you were a Chinese investor in Pyreus and joined this development, we'd build it for China, where would you take it: the fastest way or the worst-quality, longest way? [[13.30]] This will be the fastest access point from the eastern Mediterranean basin to northern Europe. If I were Chinese, I'd bring it in here from COSCO or any company in this case. That is why I say that there are almost unlimited opportunities for Hungarian transport culture. He's gone, and no, there's still Congressman Volner, just a word: in the Great Plain, the subsoil is not sand, by the way, along the railway line, but along the meadows of limestone. Mr. President, I'm sorry, I said the poem, but in your honor it was appropriate. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-08-72	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for bringing Sándor Petőfi here. Now we have two-minute speeches. Congresswoman of the Jobbik, Andrea Varga-Damm, can speak in two minutes.
u2020-04-08-73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Although my fellow Member, Mr Volner, and I have been very far apart from each other because of his recent decisions, I have very much welcomed the quality of his contribution. I welcomed you because you were professionally involved in this matter. The political question may be whether we are trading with China, how deep we are making the knowledge of our economic, political and other interests available to each other, this can all be a matter of debate, but one thing is certain: once an economic decision is made, then all the consequences of that economic decision can only be such, I am arguing with my fellow Member Gábor Bányai, not that we are not in a worse situation, the only alternative is that it will be better for us. So what I want is that when the government makes decisions on any matter, it doesn't say that it's the least bad, it says that it's the most optimal good, whatever we're talking about. Whatever we're talking about! I would like to say: in the government, for example, with regard to this railway line, if you have already figured it out, if you want to build it, do you know what is distorting this situation? Do you know what's distorting this to succeed? That every thought of the head of the government is about how he and his environment can make as much money as possible. When this is the basis for thinking, it is no longer possible to make a coherent decision that my fellow Member, János Volner, raised. Then come those that might avoid the positions of the most optimal customer circle, then it comes to not being good at economic calculations, then it is good that I choose not the best, the most efficient, but cheapest investment methodology, and, and, and, and, and they come to distorting, the decision distorting decisions, or the results distorting decisions. I think that is why we are here, in this House, because the best thoughts are lost because of the presence of this foundation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-04-08-74	Thank you very much. The extraordinary situation was that, at all possible levels, Mr Z. Kárpat asked for the floor. [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] for two minutes, as a normal word requester (Development.) "So I have to ask you this question, Congressman, although I do not see it, I am trying to see what the Hungarian nation wants now (Desperation). You. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Two minutes!]] Two minutes! Do you want anything else after that? [[Defiance. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Yes.]] For a two-minute speech, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor.
u2020-04-08-75	Mr President, Dear House, I have to say, it was the Secretary of State who inspired us to speak, because there have been a number of issues that I suspect they understand very precisely, but it is still important to clarify. When we asked for the Budapest-Belgrád railway project to be frozen and the available budgetary resources to be transferred to the defence, we were thinking, quite precisely, that the crisis caused by the epidemic is not yet so visible until the end, but this year, in any case, this whole project should be frozen, so that the bill before us should be withdrawn, look at the amount of the budget that has already been adopted. We've talked about this. Our plan was, our intention, our request, to transfer the tangible amount of this money to the basis of the disease control immediately. And when I lacked new money for wage replacements, my position is that I have every right to think about two directions. On the one hand, I am very fond of our old demand that the MNB pay its profits, its current profits, as dividends to the budget. The MNB can also provide new resources for monetization on other roads. I know that the government does not discriminate over the MNB, so obviously this is my request to the MNB, but we can see quite clearly that, in addition to exercising control powers, there is no direct involvement, but there would still be alternative tools here to settle this issue, and obviously there will also be a need for a normal comment so that we can explain in detail the ways and resources of this.
u2020-04-08-76	Thank you very much for the two-minute speech. As a representative asking for a normal word, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-04-08-77	Mr President, Dear House, I was expecting a reaction from the Secretary of State, but at the end of the day, if it doesn't work sooner. It has been suggested that, in terms of wage replacements, it is possible to obtain funds, what new types of resources we have in mind. There's obviously an approved budget. Renamed within this is a natural consequence. However, within the budget, we have more than 2000 billion tangible resources either as direct sources of development or as direct or indirect means of investment. I say, in this time of crisis, that we should take this amount, prioritize it within this. In my view, investments which, by their physical existence, can or may not be frozen must be selected. If, in this way, we are very optimistic, say, to take 1000 billion forints and redeploy, then we have made a very big step forward, but if it is only 600 or 800 billion, it is still a huge help. I've read the pro-government house press, my old favorite newspaper, the Hungarian Nation, which I've been running at the same time for decades, and I've been reading with a little bit of a mood lately, because it's become a clear party mouthpiece from this excellent organ, and it's so comforting to read it anyway, because if I just run through the titles, then everything is fine in Hungary and the world, so you can sit back. But even the Hungarian Nation couldn't share a specific point in terms of the percentage of wage replacements, including wage supplements and wage supplements, 70 percent and 40 percent respectively. You can see that the detailed rules are not fully worked out, or that if they are developed, they are not perfectly communicated. So I would like to capacitate to Mr Secretary of State that, in the closing words, he should definitely speak about the specific percentage figures from which it can be concluded how the Government of Hungary intends to use the allocated resources. In light of this, we can judge that a Budapest-Belgrád railway line has reached it, and it cannot, in my opinion, get it at all. One final point, in order not to take advantage of a measurable part of the time frame: obviously, I must agree with my fellow Member Nacsa that the encryption of cillebérci and other matters for ten years was not necessarily a viable step, and even then I have spoken against it, and I am speaking against it now. But don't make a mistake, my fellow Member Nacsa, about making the current sham acceptable by throwing up previous mistakes, sins and sins. The current shambles and encryption can't be accepted with anything, can't be relativised. The leaders of previous eras who have made mistakes will not be responsible for this step, for the railway line Budapest-Belgrád and its consequences, if not for one person, because there are more people in it, but to assume sole responsibility. It is quite simply frightening to reason that they want to protect questionable decisions by what was unbearable in earlier ages. For me, the last thirty years have been unsuitable with all political attachment, reflexes, various identity changes of Fidesz, and KDNP are obviously only partially attached to this, since it has not been a coalition partner for a thousand years, it is only a time of ick. But I remember the withdrawal from the Trianon memorial in Parliament, I know that my colleague Nacsa was not here. But speaking of identity shifts at State Secretary level, I have to tell you this in 30 seconds. I remember who placed the Hungarian land in the free movement of capital in the EU accession negotiations: it was Fidesz. And I also remember who managed this accession process, in such a way how the EU's realistic options became an EU teacher. It is also necessary to see that all these flawed decisions, 30 years of wrong decisions, have led to this country's constant search for external resources, whether it is an IMF loan or now the Chinese big loan, while we should stand on our own to the greatest extent possible from our own resources. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[13.40]]
u2020-04-08-78	Thank you very much. Thank you all for the exhausting debate. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author, Mr. Secretary of State, if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-04-08-79	Thank you very much. I have already had the opportunity to respond to what has been said in two rounds, so I am really trying to be brief and to sum up our reactions to the opinions that have been expressed since then. On the one hand, we believe in patriot economic policy, and we are glad that opposition representatives support it or transform their ideas in this direction. We also believe that it is also necessary for Hungary to become the target of investment opportunities with its international relations system. The importance of this will not be reduced in the coming years, but will be even more appreciated due to the viral crisis and the economic conditions associated with it. So any development that may involve foreign investments in Hungary is indeed necessary. This investment, which is the subject of this law, can contribute to creating and operating such improvements in Hungary. Therefore, our answer is that there is a time for improvements and for this development, I have said this several times. It must not be shifted, it must not be frozen, it must be accelerated, and it must be implemented in any case, because when there is a crisis and economic difficulties, the most important thing is that the state can contribute with improvements to keeping as many Hungarians working and creating new jobs as possible. What has been said as an opinion, I believe that there are many experts and experts who support the expected effects that we have discussed here in the debate on the bill. What we see is that there is already a shortage of capacity in the field of transport. I repeat once again: the number of containers has increased tenfold since 2016, and it will be basically the best, most convenient and fastest way of transport, much easier than it is to bypass ships and then land in Hamburg. That would be the alternative, that should be avoided. I would also like to reject the accusation that the civilian government would not have opened lines that had previously been closed: lines 5, 11, 14, 103, 142, 4, 45, 47, 98, 113, 114, to be recorded. There are constant renovations, and I have also talked about the renovations that have taken place in recent years and what are ahead of us. With regard to the re-alignment of the budget, I can only repeat to the Member that it is about redeploying the budget or, by the way, looking at the chapters, the areas that can contribute to achieving the objectives and trying to group everything there. And if we have a case that has an economic protection effect, and this development has an economic protection effect, then this development must not be shifted, but accelerated and simplified. Therefore, the HUF 63 billion in the budget, as I recall, is still needed somewhere around it, because it has economic protection consequences. With regard to wage subsidies, before I receive presidential reprimand, I would not comment on the details...
u2020-04-08-80	You see the situation very well, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-04-08-81	...so I can only point out that I meant criticism, because I am responsible for the communication activities of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, so I understand your criticism that we haven't been able to say it well in the last few hours. My colleagues and I are trying to do this in the afternoon, in the evening, in the morning, at dawn on every surface to which we are going, and I will try to say it, so that we can say it in a way that is clear and clear to the Member. At the latest, I hope that we can have a substantive debate on this at tomorrow's Committee on Economic Affairs. On identity issues, again, I don't want to express myself, but we could talk a lot about the soul of Jobbik. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-08-82	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Since the Secretary of State mentioned a soul earlier, I would like to draw attention to the body, in that we also acknowledge that even a Secretary of State is a man of flesh and blood, and accordingly I am ordering a 10-minute technical break. (Recess: 13.45 13.58) President: Dr. István Hiller Note: Dr. Winner Vinnai)
u2020-04-08-83	Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2012 CCXVII on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading scheme and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. General debate on the proposal to amend Law No 1 until closure. Government referral T/9919. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-04-08-84	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, The bill before you aims at supplementing and amending the law on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading system in the implementation of the effort-sharing decision in the field of climate policy with a view to harmonisation. Please allow me to really highlight the necessity of adopting the bill with just a few thoughts. According to the Commission Delegated Regulation of the European Union, it sets out new provisions on reporting obligations for emissions from aircraft operators. For Hungary, it is of the utmost importance that all sectors make a sufficient contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, including aviation. This amendment is also intended to serve this purpose, which our country is committed to implementing. The amendment implements the transposition of the rules into the domestic legal system, while allowing them to be properly implemented in Hungary. [[14.00]] Dear Parliament, With the adoption of the bill, Hungary will comply with the obligation to harmonise legislation on climate policy arising from membership of the European Union on a timely and appropriate basis. The amendment empowers the National Climate Protection Authority to request the necessary information and reports from domestic aircraft operators, acting legally within its authority, so that the implementation of the reporting obligation is ensured in all circumstances. I therefore ask you to support the adoption of this law for harmonisation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-08-85	Thank you very much. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Congressman Zsolt Szabó, please.
u2020-04-08-86	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The T/9919 in front of us. Bill No.1, as the Secretary of State said, a legislative harmonisation procedure, which led to the 2012 CCXVII. Law No 1 will be amended. Hungary has already done everything in the area of climate policy and climate protection, and we have always tried to make these amendments as soon as possible. I would like to refer to the establishment of the National Climate Protection Authority or even the adoption of the Paris Convention as soon as possible. Only the figures, which are facts: despite the fact that Hungarian GDP is growing and I understand this in a positive sense - have decreased by some 32 percent since 1990, while using 15 percent less energy. It is also particularly important that we set out that by 2030 90% of energy production in Hungary will be carbon-free. The amendment itself is the transposition of Commission Regulation 2019/1603, which is also agreed by the International Civil Aviation Organisation, which brought in a regulatory package in 2016, known as CORSIA. The performance of an activity within the scope of CORSIA may be accompanied by a given CO2 emissions within the field of aviation, so that the sector's CO2 emissions cannot be increased. This activity is certainly to be praised, if only all economic development would take place in this way, even though we all know that the use of airspace and activity is constantly increasing. There are two main areas of legislation. On the one hand, it obliges organisations and companies in the field of aviation to provide data, and from 2020 it will request data in an appropriate table format, which can be compared and worked together. The whole area, as the Secretary of State said, will be taken over by the National Climate Protection Authority. We hope that, as they can function very positively in the treatment of cooling gases, the same will be done within the flight activity itself. It must be supported, and I call on the factions in Parliament to support this series of climate protection measures. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-08-87	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Balczó, lead speaker of Jobbik. Here.
u2020-04-08-88	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, The original law, which is now being amended, defined Hungary's participation in the greenhouse gas trading system in the European Union. This amendment, as has been said here, relates to aviation emissions. Allow me to briefly review how aviation contributes to greenhouse gas emissions. First of all, when you burn a ton of kerosene, you create 3.1 tons of carbon dioxide, so this is the main enemy in this case, because I must add that 1.4 tons of water vapour is also generated, and there are well-established expert opinions that water vapour in the stratosphere can also make a significant contribution to the greenhouse effect. The annual output of the industry is 800 million tonnes. Is that a lot or a little? This represents 2% of global emissions. Again, it is a question of many or few, but I give you another figure: it is 14 times the annual emissions of Hungary, so it is understandable that we have to deal with this separately and thoroughly. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] What are the options for reducing emissions? On the one hand, technological expectations must be met for both the engine and the dragon structure. Traffic developments may be necessary both for ground operations and for air traffic management, as well as the use of sustainable alternative fuels. They therefore reduce emissions. Let me add that fuel consumption per passenger-kilometre decreased by 80 per cent compared to the 1960 level. It is projected that CO2 emissions from the aviation industry will increase by three times over the next 30 years. The International Civil Aviation Organisation, a specialised UN organisation, has committed to global carbon-neutral growth in the industry from 2020. However, the three instruments mentioned above are insufficient and global market-based measures are needed. This will help resolve the remaining gap by means of so-called compensation, which means that it will finance projects to reduce emissions or to absorb CO2 already emitted and thus enable net emissions to be maintained. What are these climate projects? Energy efficiency enhancers, renewable energy users and forestry. In this case, if a tonne of savings are made, this corresponds to a carbon credit. It is not to be confused with quota trading, because that one emission allowance allows the emission of one tonne of carbon dioxide and, in the case of credits, it is saved. By the way, 72 of the airlines, including Hungary, volunteered until 2026 to maintain this net emissions level and become mandatory from 2027. Obviously, the condition of effectiveness is that this carbon credit market should be issued in a balanced manner with the credits purchased, and this should be used rigorously and cannot be achieved without strict monitoring. Therefore, let me quote here exactly the title of the EU regulation that we are now introducing in our Fundamental Law, the monitoring, reporting and validation of emissions from air transport by the International Civil Aviation Organisation for the purpose of implementing a market-based global measure, if this does not happen in a formal manner, cannot be verified that the aviation industry has fulfilled its commitments. Therefore, Member States should transmit the verified emissions data concerned to the Secretariat of the International Civil Aviation Organisation and ensure it fully. The Commission will also monitor this through cooperation with Eurocontrol, i.e. with the European organisation for air management, because once again, if the credibility of these data is not available, we will not be able to verify performance. So basically, we will introduce the specific provisions of this EU regulation into the Hungarian Fundamental Law. [[14.10]] Since this is a regulation, I must add that if we do not implement it, it would still be valid, but obviously there can be no contradiction between an existing national law and an EU regulation which is binding on the Hungarian legal order, so we want to include this in an understandable way, and Jobbik will vote in favour both in terms of its content and in terms of its obligation. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-08-89	Welcome, fellow Members. Thank you for your speech, Congressman. I give the floor to Andras Aradski, lead speaker of KDNP.
u2020-04-08-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, The 2012 CCXVII. We are discussing today's proposal to amend Law No 1 on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading system and the implementation of the Effort Sharing Decision. The legislative amendment proposal is a proposal to harmonise legislation arising from EU legislation, which extends the scope of reporting activities in the commercial system by means of aviation under a relevant European Directive and a Commission Regulation, and requires, in technical terms, the use of a new file format and, thirdly, Member States to report on the implementation of the Global Market-based Action of the International Civil Aviation Organisation. This addition, which was based on previous EU standards, is very important because transport, if not as important as energy production, is the second most important greenhouse gas emission sector in terms of greenhouse gas emissions. That's what it felt like in the history of regulation. First, energy-related emissions regulations were introduced, but shortly thereafter, transport-oriented regulations also started, for example, requiring the renewable share of fuel in transport as a norm and subsequently increasing it. It is therefore a very important area to ensure that the reporting obligation for transport is as extensive as possible and that transport emissions, including aviation related emissions, are included in the Community trade system as much as possible. My fellow Member Balczó added shocking data. Let me add that there are 30,000 flights in Europe within an hour. This is a huge quantity and the associated emissions are a sensitive burden on the environment and have sensitive consequences for climate change. The International Civil Aviation Organisation has already adopted, in October 2016, a carbon compensation and reduction framework for global market measures, the mandatory application of which was provided for between 2021 and 26, but the European Union has already provided for this mandatory application in its testing period, i.e. in its trial period, so it is time that Hungary also regulates this otherwise mandatory EU regulation at the level of legislation, in line with EU standards. The bill before us brings a positive message from the point of view of climate protection. It is positive from the point of view of the fact that the Hungarian Government is providing timely and appropriate regulation to ensure that the form and content of the reporting obligation in accordance with the standards laid down in civil transport are properly regulated. I also think it is important to underline that, in view of this fact that we are discussing this regulation now, the first reporting obligation for the operators concerned will be amended accordingly in the draft. The first reporting will therefore take place on 31 August 2020 compared to previous ideas, which will apply from 1 January 2021. Later on, this date will be moved forward. The main reason why Hungarian operators are able to comply with this reporting obligation is that, under the current Hungarian legislation, these Hungarian regulations comply with the standards and practices required by the international civil aviation organisation, so there is no obstacle to Hungary's obligation to fulfil its reporting obligations even during the trial period, in line with the European Union's objectives. In this context, I have nothing to say but that the bill will be supported by the Christian Democratic People's Party. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-08-91	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Mrs Zita Gurmai, who will be followed by László Varju and Péter Ungár.
u2020-04-08-92	Thank you very much for your extraordinary discipline, Secretary of State. In fact, from nine to three-quarters to two, he participated intensively throughout the debate. I think it's not just any achievement, so thank you for that. That's why I'm going to be extraordinarily brief. It is clear that the proposal contains an amendment to the law for harmonisation purposes, and this has been carefully prepared, so the Parliament will fulfil its obligation under European Union law by creating the law accordingly. Our faction will support it. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-08-93	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Congressman László Varju, who will be followed by Péter Ungár.
u2020-04-08-94	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The answer to the question is very simple, because the challenge that made this amendment to the law is the answer to the question that we want to stay alive and that we want our children to stay alive. For this reason, the international efforts to influence the processes in our environment in such a way as to create a more livable environment are indeed in agreement that we must remain within the one and a half degree limit of global warming. This solution is to be achieved through a sub-area through a harmonisation objective. Interesting, because today, air transport itself and its issue have already been discussed on the first item on the agenda. There is a need to comply with various actions in aviation, and I think that the related steps and records should be supported. It is important for the Democratic Coalition that we take legislative harmonisation steps, and at the same time I would like to point out that we can agree on our own with the tightening standards, which may result in inconvenience or lack of other activities that have so far been normal. I think that life is more important from this point of view, and we therefore want to support this proposal in itself and its decisions for harmonisation. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-08-95	Thank you, Congressman. Congressman Péter Ungár has the floor. [[14.20]]
u2020-04-08-96	Thank you very much. Once again, I can say that, since this is an EU legislative harmonisation proposal, the LMP fraction will also support it. Allow me one sentence, and I would like to respond to the Fidesz lead speaker, my fellow Member, Szabó. He said that Orbán has always been committed to climate protection. Since 2013, the country's greenhouse gas emissions have increased by 12%. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-08-97	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I'll ask Secretary Tamás Schanda to comment. [[On the sign of Tamás János Schanda:]] It says yes.
u2020-04-08-98	[[His mic won't say.]] Thank you for your support. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-08-99	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The 2001 CVIII on certain issues relating to electronic commerce services and information society services follows. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. The government referral is T/9931. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I will also give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda.
u2020-04-08-100	[[For portable microphones:]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In addition to traditional television programmes in the audiovisual media market, online content has also become increasingly important in the last decade. In response to this process, the European Union's Audiovisual Media Services Directive has been amended to regulate and control so-called Video Sharing Platform Providers. These include YouTube, Facebook's video-sharing channel, Indavideo or Video. Some of the provisions of the amended EU Directive have already been incorporated into the Media Act, but the transposition of the remaining legislation needs to be implemented by amending the Electronic Trade Act. By amending the eCommerce Act, we are therefore fulfilling an obligation to harmonise EU legislation, thereby transposing the amendments to the EU Audiovisual Media Services Directive into domestic law. Dear Parliament, The regulation is subject to EU jurisdiction to video-sharing platform services, on the basis of which NMHH receives supervisory powers over video-sharing platform providers established in Hungary and can also deal with specific disputes. In the interests of transparency, all Member States' authorities will register service providers under their jurisdiction so that it can be easily identified which service providers may be dealt with by the authorities of the Member States. Detailed rules will enable you to decide which service providers will have authority over the NMHH and which Member State will be the jurisdiction of the large global video-sharing platform providers within the EU. Of course, due to the cross-border nature of services, a cooperation mechanism between Member States' authorities will also be established in order to resolve specific issues affecting several Member States or authorities in several Member States. The EU Directive defines video-sharing platform services as an independent service category, clearly and clearly separated from media services and other content services. The point of the distinction is that while the media service provider exercises effective control over the selection and compilation of programmes, video-sharing platform providers have no control over the actual content, apart from the organisation and organization of content. However, under the new rules, these providers are obliged to take measures to ensure, for example, that the content requirements set out in the video material available to them are met in order to protect children and the public. This also means that they are obliged to take measures to ensure that advertising requirements are complied with by persons who upload videos, that content harmful to children and that illegal or criminal content is not placed on the video channel. For example, measures to protect children may include the provision of a system of age control and parental control, whether on the website or in mobile phone applications. In addition, the service provider is obliged to operate a complaint notification system allowing the public to report any content deemed harmful. However, it is important to highlight, and this is also emphasised in the directive, that these measures and technical solutions should not result in damage to freedom of expression and the neutrality requirement of the network, i.e. they should not lead to a prior verification obligation, nor should they result in a general screening of the content uploaded. In order to ensure transparency and equal treatment, video-sharing platform dividers should lay down, in their general terms and conditions, inter alia, requirements against certain media content, the possibility of enforcement of claims for out-of-court and judicial settlement of disputes, as well as complaint reporting mechanisms. It is an important provision for the new regulation to give NMHH the power to impose sanctions in addition to the exercise of official supervisory powers, including fines and even the suspension of the service. The maximum fine could reach HUF 100 million, and this amount can even be imposed again. In view of the fact that small Hungarian operators, mostly owned by Hungary, are subject to Hungarian jurisdiction, this amount is expected to constitute a sufficient deterrent to the infringements. The EU Directive also provides for the promotion of self-regulation and co-regulation. Accordingly, the Act provides for self-regulation of service providers and creates a framework for co-regulation. Dear Parliament, Allow me to point out once again that the bill transposes the provisions of the EU Directive on audiovisual media services on video-sharing platform providers into the eCommerce Services Act, in compliance with the obligation to harmonise legislation. As a result of this amendment, the public, in particular minors, will be better protected against videos with harmful content. The authorities of the Member States will be given supervisory and sanctioning powers to comply with the rules, including the NMHH in Hungary. Accordingly, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-08-101	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. I give the floor to Zsolt Szabó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-04-08-102	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, A long-awaited package of legislation, a long-awaited directive, has come before us today for discussion and debate. The 2001 CVIII. law regulates electronic commerce services and information society services, and today an area that has not been sufficiently regulated in the past, specifically video-sharing platforms are regulated, and their operation, activity will be defined or their monitoring will be determined within the legal framework. I would like to highlight three areas of the whole, i.e. the legislative environment. One is the setting of standard terms and conditions, which is particularly important, as many video-sharing platforms do not work and do not contain the standard terms and conditions. [[14.30]] It will have three priority areas: on the one hand, the requirements for media content should be specified in these terms of the contract, for example, the definition of the true content of commercial communications - the possibility of claims and promises for out-of-court and judicial settlement of disputes, and the precise handling of notifications made by users of harmful content. Here I would highlight the protection of young people as a second group, as we need to teach our children media awareness, protect them from harmful sites, and have media awareness when we use these sites. The possibility of doing these processes and taking sufficiently firm action for our children has not been achieved so far. Third, it is very important to extend the role of the National Media and Infocommunication Authority in relation to the inclusion of international relations on the one hand, because if a media service provider, such as such a divider, is centrally registered in Ireland, then the Authority will now have the right to act there, and to apply sanctions, of course. The other is that you can supervise not only companies, but also groups of companies, and control your operations. This, with appropriate authority powers, such as criminality and other services, creates a sufficiently legal environment for monitoring the full range of activities of media dividers and video dividers. We have long-awaited legislation, supported by the Fidesz fraction. I respect my request to all parliamentary groups to support this bill. Thank you for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-04-08-103	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Dániel Z. Carpathian, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai is replaced by Attila Móring József in the notary seat.]]
u2020-04-08-104	Mr President, Dear House, We now have a package, which we have been waiting for for for years, on which I believe that all good parliamentary forces can find common points, and we will obviously also find contradictions. I see that the European Commission's previous motion to set up a digital tax system, which unfortunately did not go through the body and system of the European dinosaur, is certainly the basis for a legitimate debate. I am the maximum supporter of the fair regulation of Facebook and other giants within the legal framework from the outset, if this word can be used, in addition to the need for continuous stand-up, monitoring and monitoring in addition to freedom of expression and other fundamental rights. At the same time, we see that the Commission's relevant proposal was not supported by the European Member States, and it was typically the least supported by those with low rates, or where there was a concrete and net economic interest in not going through such a system. I would add that the EU's critical voices are also being strengthened, obviously, because the effectiveness of a global organisation is greatly shown by how its internal decision-making takes place and how smooth it is along such a cardinal theme. An agreement could not even be reached with regard to a tax rate of 3 per cent. This was followed by the V4 agreement that, if it did not go at Community level, we should at least try to have limited powers. My doubts are strong. We can remember the Czechs' stand on the issue of taxing Facebook and its associates or including them under public burdens. The Czechs' fundamental approach was that this should and could be resolved at OECD Member State level. As a great friend of the meaningful cooperation of the V4 we have a relatively limited chance of putting substantial restrictions through, and I'm not so interested in the braked foam package. So, in itself, the fact that we are installing filters in the system, and that we are making various small, cosmetic changes, may be, so it is possible to vote yes, and I will be able to do this, too, if I do not find mines in the system that irritate me, but that is not what we wanted, so this was not the basis of the package, but it is true that we can make virtual game drives that are rightfully irritating us manageable at some level. But what we see is that France, Germany, has tried to take such action; let us remain modest in success. In fact, this war was probably decided when we let these global networks into our own markets, our own culture, our own media without control. Now, of course, you can do such follow-ups, and there are also experiments that are eligible, but what we can see is that we may not be doing this with a high chance of success. The reason why people have a bit of a bad taste in such a debate is that, of course, Fidesz-KDNP is submitting such a proposal, okay, let's argue about it, let's be open, but at the same time it is operating an industrially functioning lie factory, one of the tools of which is the network discussed here. In fact, by rendezvousing and casting horrific amounts, this lie factory is also operating through the device that we now want to regulate from the other direction. I don't want to talk about the operation of the various Facebook comms here, for the wins of press litigation. For my faction alone, the number of lawsuits won over 200 started largely on the basis of slanders that were distributed here in advertisements paid for them through the networks mentioned. But I can see that this is not necessarily the subject of the proposal, and we need to show some restraint for that very reason. At the same time, I see that the solution proposed by our friends in the Czech Republic, leading lines and trails, can be what applies in the long term. If we want a single regulation, the chances of success can be achieved if at least all EU Member States are able to take ownership of it. We also see that the French and German ideas, which were stuck on a dam, started from countries and from national economies where we are not yet able to compete in terms of capital power, cannot be compared. Therefore, I can support the principle, the idea, and obviously we will be discussing the implementation with each other, but it is quite certain that if it makes sense to seek cooperation and to seek allies, it is on this subject. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-04-08-105	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2020-04-08-106	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I agree that there is a long-awaited and very important bill ahead of us. I think this is a very important and long topic. The framework of the current legislative debate may not allow us to discuss this in every detail, but it is absolutely important that there is a continued political dialogue on this subject in the future. I can agree on many things with my better fellow Member, Dániel Z. Kárpát, because there is basically a need for such regulations, and we can see that the media, digital information flows, the information society and digital content have changed very quickly and rapidly over the last decades and, above all, over the past five to six years. We see that our parents and grandparents have acquired their information in a very different way and have met with either the news or any information or content. We can also see that the last five years or, say, eight years have made an amazing difference in this market, even ten years ago, social media, video-sharing platforms and the 24-hour continuous flow of information have not been so widespread today. I do not agree with this, I do not agree with Dániel Z. Carpathian that the installation of certain filters is not good, because it is better than nothing. Common EU proposals have failed so far and, above all, because some of these proposals have been tripped by the Member States that have taken significant part in them. After the unsuccessful vote, the previous Commissioner for Competition of the European Commission stated that it is up to the nation states to come up with national state solutions, or in smaller regional cooperations, such as the Visegrad Group, to figure out different forms of how to regulate, tax, how to deal with this issue. What I see in most European nations is that everyone is now waiting for the OECD decision, which you have mentioned, which has obviously been postponed because of the current epidemic situation, since this decision should have been taken in the days. We hope that this decision will not be postponed for long, and the OECD will have guidance on the basis of which the regulatory system, which will allow tax issues to be carried forward here in the Hungarian Parliament and in Hungarian legislation. [[14.40]] I think that this question is also important because it is a very cardinal issue to let technology companies take control of us, or we can control technology companies. I think this will be a key issue in the coming period, and we also need to look at how these techs affect our lives. I think that all of this must also be seen from a point of view of fundamental rights and personal freedoms. There is also a need to talk about national sovereignty and freedom issues, of course always with a view to freedom of the press and opinion. I would like to bring the phrase that I think is very important, and my fellow Member Szabó has already spoken about it, this media awareness, that much energy, a lot of time, must be devoted to raising children and young people into media-conscious citizens. In the school system, I would like to underline parental responsibility, meet content, meet filters, meet guidelines, approach where media awareness will in any case be a crucial segment of the thinking of the growing generation, since, with all the advantages of social media, video-sharing platforms and such providers, there is a great deal of danger to the careless or naive user. And I think that nation-state solutions have been called for by the Commissioner for Competition and national state solutions, but there is also a need for such solutions at European level, and the two must be used together, because I believe that effective action, effective screening system, effective sanctioning system and effective rules will also have to be applied or applied in the current bill. No one has ever examined, let's say, the general terms and conditions of a company registered in Dublin, which all users consider to be binding on themselves, for example, to comply with the law of a given country, to comply with the national constitution, to comply with the domestic legal order of which that citizen is a party. This has not been studied before, which is why it is important to move forward in this area. There has been a recent incident, let us remember that a certain video-sharing portal has deleted the entire YouTube channel of one Hungarian press organ from one moment to the next without any justification and without any real legal basis. It's the Pesti Guys side. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Well, that's the style!]] There are several of us sitting in the room and sitting in the room, who have been on the various online programs of this channel, on TV, with my opposition colleagues. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian and Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm intervene.]] I have been able to argue on several occasions with my fellow opposition Members on this subject. Here, too, there has been a deletion from YouTube without any legal basis and no real reason. I believe that such arbitrary and incompatible steps are those which are not acceptable and which means that we need to consider or talk about further regulations. Another problem is that in many cases very harmful content can very easily reach users, such as hate speech or terrorist content. This has also been seen in many parts of the world that it is often too easy to reach users, and therefore it is necessary to take effective, strong, decisive action in this area. And that is why it is important to talk about it, and I think today is not the only time that we will talk about it, and we will find a lot of points of understanding among ourselves - because this is a topic in which joint action is needed, here in the Hungarian Parliament. Because this will be with us, this story, with us will not only be the problem, but also the possibility, because these sites, these techs, this social media contains a lot of possibilities, and I am not against it at all. Although I cannot reciprocate Dániel Z. Kárpát's low blow by seeing how much Jobbik spent on Facebook ads and embarrassing ads, for example, there was one against me, that's not the point, it's not the person, but in paid advertising they tried pro-government politicians... Of course, it's part of politics, we accept it, but then don't come to us with it, so I'd say that in brackets. I think that the European Commission's proposal, which now includes a new approach, is forward-looking, requires the inclusion of such filters, is a need for regulation, but I think that further action on this subject will be needed. I am pleased that the Digital Freedom Committee has been established in the Hungarian Government, working group led by Minister Judit Varga. I believe that from a fundamental point of view, from a tax point of view, from the point of view of freedoms and the issue of national sovereignty, the influence of the various techs on Hungarian society, the rule of law and the European community must be examined from the perspective of these points. After all, we often see the abuse and arbitrary behaviour of these techs, and I say once again that, in addition to the possibilities, we need to draw attention to the dangers. In order to increase the media awareness of society, there is also a need for joint, multi-party cooperation, where everyone has their own responsibility, because every party, every politician, has several followers in various social media, towards them the signal of media awareness, the continuous voice of media awareness, and the lack of sharing of false news will also help citizens to become more aware of this aspect. We, too, think that all politicians should put media awareness first, and regulations such as this must always be welcomed with joy, and I do not think we should stop here. I would also like to say to the Secretary of State that this is a very important step, and we will have to take further steps to ensure that the aspects that I have mentioned are fundamental rights, freedoms, arbitraryness, national sovereignty, which should not be forgotten and should not enjoy unlimited power and self-absorbed power by these technos, but, in any case, the current bill is forward-looking and therefore supported by the KDNP. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-08-107	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, who will be followed by MEP László Varju.
u2020-04-08-108	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! The proposal addresses compliance with and transposition of EU rules on the digital market. I would like to mention a specific part, which my fellow Member Sándor Szabó pointed out on several occasions that the proposal also provides that these solutions should not lead to prior monitoring of upload content or restrictions should not be excessive. The reforms of the European Union in relation to video-sharing platforms can lead to overreactions and pre-screenings, a provision of this kind is crucial in order to ensure that EU regulation does not involve reducing creative content. It would also have been fortunate in the law to provide for a special remedy for the user of the service in the case of over-insurance and, in the case of damage, how to recover such damage. I agree with my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, that it is extremely important that we protect minors, and I definitely think that everything must be done in this matter. In parentheses, I note that I would also set a time limit, because I think that spending a lot of time in front of the screens has an extremely damaging effect on children. So, as I said at the beginning, the proposal is essentially about transposing the legislation of the European Union, but the absence of a proposal to provide a solution to how service providers can ensure the control of the age of users, and on this basis it is feared that this will lead to abusive data management by service providers. So, in any case, Mr Secretary, I would like to suggest this for consideration. Another problem is that although it requires that screening should not involve prior verification of content, it does not attach sanctions to the breach of these rules and does not provide sufficient and rapid redress for chargers. I would strongly suggest that we clarify these two problems, because then there is a chance that we can make a yes out of this stay. Thank you again for the preparation.
u2020-04-08-109	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mr László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-04-08-110	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. We could start by saying that the effects of a globalised world and its negative consequences, if possible, should be countered, prevented, that cooperation between countries is necessary, and that is very right. [[14.50]] Therefore, if the Member States of the European Union have this ambition among themselves and want to take action on this matter, I believe that it is justified to talk about it, and even if the countries agree, the support is part of this. However, the experience of recent years has shown that when the government and Fidesz get close to this subject, they carry serious dangers. While you are attempting to do so, in this sense you are putting in the law, in particular, restrictions on the protection of the child, while not providing adequate guarantees other than the need to protect Judit Varga in the case of digital freedom. I could say that this is, in itself, a contradiction that you must somehow resolve. This was not possible with this bill, which is certainly thoughtful. Basically, I can agree with the one sentence that we need to talk more about this in order to get ahead in this. After all, it is you who are now starting out of the M1 with one of the elements of state television, by operating it as a party state television, that create a situation, and by not complying with the media law, this unfulfilled attitude precludes and encourages leaders there, and even forbids them - to be represented in public media as opposition representatives. Unless, in MTVA, they decide that they want to and demand that, if nothing else, they give at least five points and five minutes in the media, but also prevent that. So I have to say that the uncertainty that comes from your regulatory initiative is much stronger, what they will do and how they will abuse it. What I expect in the next period in the debate on the law is that you will be able to convince everyone of the professional organisations, the public and the Members - that you will not abuse the adoption of this law, but that you will be able to enforce the effort that comes from the common thinking of the European Member States. This is how we can get to the point where conscious consumer behaviour has been in our practice for a long time - that the media awareness my fellow Member referred to should lead me to the fact that I do not watch M1 TV because they lie too much. This media awareness must be maintained and even supported and helped. And the freedom to have an individual's choice of content is important in this sense. At the same time, I understand that the European Member States want to take action on this. But I expect the government to take steps to obtain guarantees, to see that this situation, this regulation, will not be abused either against the individual, companies or businesses, but on the contrary, will help freedom. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-04-08-111	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment. [[For signal:]] I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs for two minutes.
u2020-04-08-112	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Only László Varju asked me, so I want to answer him. We do not want to abuse this bill, and we want to represent the common position of the European Union in this matter as well. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-08-113	Thank you, Congressman. If there is no further intention to comment... but there is. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát in a normal time frame.
u2020-04-08-114	Mr President, Dear House, I do not wish to frighten anyone with the normal time frame, because I will not take advantage of a fraction of it. I expected a bigger debate, so I was a little surprised to see no more speakers on the board. What we should talk about, however, is how, in the long term, the legislator feels about the possible taxation of these mammoths and megacompanies. Once again, the thought is close to me. However, I do not see the exact vision from what has been said that, in addition to the inclusion of different filters and corrective proposals, beyond what we can agree with each other, the legislator imagines, in the long term, at least moving these companies towards public burdens. We see that the various French and German experiments, as mentioned above, have failed on this front. This 3-percent flat-rate story seems truncated by what we do with countries that want to maintain the lower rates in the longer term, or are financially interested in maintaining a system that allows them to attract the capital, the revenue that they obviously do not want to tax under the rules of public burdens, in the event that there are tomatoes in which they can escape the obligation. Therefore, I would like not only the Government of Hungary, but also all the European countries, if I had the opportunity to think about a common solution that cannot in any way be a transfer of sovereignty from Hungary, even during the crisis, as a result of the crisis. I insist on this, and I very much hope that the vast majority of Parliament will also limit itself to ensuring that sovereignty transfers do not occur, so that we do not have to give powers to Brussels or anyone else in order to regulate the mega-companies that may cause damage to our markets. So let there be a national solution, of course, but if we do not harmonise these national solutions, then I fear that Switzerland will be created, that tax havens will be created, that neutral states will attract the capital that we would otherwise want to tax here under fair conditions. I feel that this debate is fair and that it can be concluded if it is said by a representative of the government about the way in which they intend to take this system towards public burdens. Obviously, no one wants to take away the acquired rights of Facebook quotes, but what we need to see is that nothing in the world is free, and the myth of freeness is our shared responsibility. These are not free networks, they are not free services, we all pay for them, both with our data and with part of our private sphere. Thirdly, our shared responsibility is also to eliminate the myth of free news, free information. If we do not pay the price for the investigation at some point in the service system, we will see a drop in standards and an ever stronger bubble of opinion. The processes of the last ten years are in this direction, and I don't think that's a good direction. Now, the crisis caused by the epidemic can create an opportunity for collective reflection by the leaders of Europe and to submit, in favour of or after this bill, one that offers a genuine European solution. But once again, I am not far from the Czech model or the Czech idea, which applies this system to the OECD as a whole. I think that's a viable way to go, so let's just start on one of them. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-04-08-115	Thank you, Congressman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the general debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda to respond to what has been said.
u2020-04-08-116	Thank you very much. I would have tried to push a button, but the machine didn't work anymore. This would be worth trying to fix until the next legislative proposals are discussed, otherwise we will find it difficult to react. Allow me to conclude a few sentences. On the one hand, I would like to thank Jobbik and Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian for supporting the bill, as I thank, of course, Fidesz and KDNP representatives. On the other hand, Congressman, I must reject the slanders and sentences of our party families that you said in your first speech. [[Noise, interruptions.]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Wednesday 8 April 2020 118/2. Number Parliamentary Diary [[15.00]] I agree with Mr Nacsa that further steps must be taken and that the adoption of this bill can indeed be a starting step. I think it is a difficult area to control, which, however, affects the everyday life of our families, and our children have a lot of contact with these areas, so that is why we have a particular responsibility to try and find new solutions for how this area can be regulated. I would just like to point out to Mrs Gurmai that, in the case of standards relating to age control, we cannot do that we also require technology, which she has proposed, it would not be right, because the technology is changing so quickly that it would be unjustified to provide mandatory technology by law. We can state in a technologically neutral way that there is a need to check this in some way, but there is a stricter regulation here, and I think it would do more harm than good. I would also like to confirm that there will be no prior screening, as set out in the proposal and, as I said in the exposé, but that operators must carry out checks in the process, and they cannot do so in advance. And I would like to point out that right now, with this bill, we are creating a complaint handling and other procedure that allows users to signal abuse. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, since there are several operators, competition in the market itself allows the user to choose the services of another service provider if the technology is not used properly. In the case of Mr Varju and his speech, I have two things to say. One is that we do not want to abuse this regulatory option, the sentences which are not related to the bill, but to the civilian government, I reject them. And his fear that the European Union agreement comes from Brussels and that it is suspicious of him, I understand his fear, but it is, however, that we are complying with a legal harmonisation obligation, so now, in this case, we may be able to afford it, in his case, I do not understand why this suspicion is happening at all. Then, as a closing, allow me to thank the contributions, the supporters in particular, and also those who criticised the bill tabled, and to ask you to support the adoption of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-08-117	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I am ordering a two-minute technical break so that the microphone can be installed with the Secretary of State and the amendments can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. [[It's a short break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. The 2011 CCIV on national higher education follows. a general debate on the amendment of law and of certain related laws until closure. Government referral T/9920. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State József Bódis, author of the item on the agenda.
u2020-04-08-118	Mr President, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of Congress, Dear House, The Hungarian government is constantly working to improve and strengthen the competitiveness of higher education, and the measures taken over the past period are assured of this. However, in the current situation, the area is becoming even more appreciated. It has never been more necessary to develop the higher education sphere than it is today. The challenge posed by the coronal virus is proof that strengthening the Hungarian knowledge base is a nation-wide strategic interest. Dear Parliament, We have arrived at another stage of the large-scale government investment in Hungary's competitiveness, which requires the decision of the Parliament. The government strategy "Training in Higher Education" has set out the basic directions in which the government has supported, in recent years, the development of a modern higher education system capable of using resources efficiently and effectively, meeting the multifaceted expectations of the economy and society towards universities. The need for the tasks to be carried out is confirmed by the fact that the whole organisation of higher education is undergoing a global transformation. The international trend in the governance of higher education is the emergence of external actors, the transformation of inefficient forms of governance, and the promotion of performance, indicators and rankings in public support. The more efficient functioning of universities as organisations and the strategic objective of the Hungarian government of higher education to bring Hungary among the five most competitive and lively countries in Europe by 2030 made it necessary to submit a bill before you. National Higher Education Act defines the functioning of the institutional system. The development direction of higher education institutions, the process and conditionality to enable them to operate the scientific, innovation, art and training ecosystem that develops the social, economic environment of the region more effectively and effectively, by creating and creating the legal framework. By changing the institutional model of higher education, we base the institutional functioning of higher education in which universities, as drivers of local social life, intellectual education and economic development, flexibly respond to needs and provide a background for training, research, innovation and arts, sport and cultural services for the competitiveness of the region and the country. [[15.10]] The changes to ensure a change of model, defining the functioning of higher education institutions, are as follows. On the basis of the amendment, the list of persons entitled to establish a higher education institution should be added to Annex XIII of 2019 on Trust Foundations. a trust fund established under law. In the context of the new agricultural strategy for higher education and the change of model, the legislative amendment provides the legal basis for enabling public-interest trust foundations operating model-changing higher education institutions to acquire the trust rights of state-owned land belonging to the National Fund of Earth, which has so far been in the management of institutions' assets. Institutional transformations are facilitated by the creation of departments with legal personality in the new institutional organisation. The bill sets out a new funding framework to support higher education institutions. The bill before you is aimed at creating more modern and competitive higher education. Our regulation will be simplified and our institutions will participate more flexibly and without unnecessary constraints in international research and programmes. The experience of Hungarian students abroad will also become easier, thus increasing not only their knowledge, but also the national knowledge. In fact, the proposals for amendments can be divided into two parts. On the one hand, the bill aims at simplifying the operation and making the funding of our higher education institutions more transparent, and on the other hand we want to make professional changes that help us to gain effective knowledge. The latter changes promote the internationalisation of higher education, on the one hand, and on the other hand, the rules on training are amended to make it and the career itself popular, and, on the other hand, some of the changes define or target deregulation. In order to internationalise our higher education, the proposal puts the definition of training and output requirements into institutional competence in the case of joint master's training under the Erasmus+ programme, as well as in the case of vocational training, thus greatly simplifying the establishment and operation of programmes for higher education institutions. In order to ensure quality conditions for education and research, and to attract foreign professionals to Hungarian higher education, the appointment of a Hungarian professor of university teaching in the institution takes place in a simplified procedure on the basis of a European qualification, without a specific request for the opinion of the experts of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee for Higher Education. In view of the fact that, in the case of the same person, in the same subject matter, the certification in question has already been carried out abroad by an organisation with equivalent effect. Of course, this rule can only be applied if the teacher has already been employed abroad as a university teacher. We want to promote scientific replacements by providing a student relationship with a complex examination in doctoral training, who has prepared for a degree in the general medical school in parallel with the student status, i.e. doctors will be able to prepare for a uniquely long six-year course in scientific education. With this amendment, the government's aim is to ensure that the doctors of the future are not only excellent professionals, but that they are able to cope as effectively as possible in scientific life, and that research results can be transferred to the field of everyday medicine as quickly as possible. We all know that the future of our country also depends on the growing generations, so the government pays special attention to the education of our children, and therefore, in the course of the undivided teacher training which started in 2013, the two versions of which are secondary and primary school teachers, as well as other teachers' programmes, there is a uniform structure of teacher training, which prepares teachers for primary school and secondary school teaching tasks in public education institutions. Extending the forms of teacher training will make it easier for teachers to participate in teacher training for those already studying higher education. Honourable Members, Among other things, the consolidation of the institutional network has already been carried out in the framework of the implementation of the government strategy "Training in Higher Education." Using the experience of the restructuring of state higher education institutions in line with the country's structure, it is now time to set up a higher education institution with a predominantly agri-education profile, with a special focus on agricultural education in the eight priority areas of the higher education strategy, from a social and national point of view. The new institution will effectively serve the sector's current and future professional needs and will be able to deliver a sufficient amount of and knowledgeable professionals and leaders based on a technologically advanced infrastructure and economic base. With this transformation, the Hungarian agricultural-higher education can enter a new development path, and by 2030 the Hungarian agricultural university will be among the world's top hundred agricultural sciences universities, thereby increasing the international recognition and embeddedness of the Hungarian agricultural economy, agricultural education and research. Dear House, The proposed amendment to the National Higher Education Act also includes a further institutional transformation, which will allow both universities to develop new and growing careers. With this transformation, the Faculty of Pedagogism of the University of Neumann can join one of the oldest religious pedagogical institutions that began at the time of the change of regime, making use of the possibilities of combining high-level education in both institutions, and with this transformation another higher education institution, the Károli Gáspár Reformed University, may appear in Kecskemét. Honourable Members, The change of degrees has begun in higher education. Our most important goal is to build and operate a highly positioned institution of higher education and research in the international educational and research space, capable of responding to societal challenges, which is fundamental to our country's economic success and which is competitive. The higher education strategy is clear and clear. If we do not challenge students, if the enthusiasm of the instructors is lacking, if the researchers are tired of the decade-long fallout from the West, then performance is also persistently lacking. In other words, the rise in quality and competitiveness will only be achieved if society demands more on the whole of the higher education system. However comfortable we have been in the past, we need competition, stricter standards, challenges, and, in short, performance-oriented higher education. [[15.20]] Developments in higher education for training, research and artistic creative activity that have taken place in recent years have fulfilled their expectations. The importance of institutions also increases significantly in international space. However, funding the core activities of higher education institutions did not follow the same development path, so we considered it necessary to develop new funding principles. Under the proposal, the new system of funding higher education institutions is more effectively adapted to the multi-faceted activities of higher education institutions, their nature, their role in the national economy and in the development of the region, and creates stable, financially sustainable operational funds for the institutions. To this end, a three-legged financing model would be introduced for the Austrian model, which would provide specific support for educational, research and artistic activities and the maintenance of infrastructure. Our aim with this transformation is to make the institutions more interested in efficiency and quality through funding. We have established objectively measurable, accountable qualitative and quantitative performance expectations for funding. Our position is that it is the institution's competence and responsibility to use the resources received. We must monitor the achievement of the performance targets. Dear Parliament, Our country is facing new challenges. In order to overcome these, higher education has a significant role to play. I therefore call for the bill aimed at competitive and innovative higher education to be supported by their vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-08-119	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to László Pósán, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-04-08-120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, The T/9920 in front of us. Proposal No 1 containing amendments to the Act on National Higher Education, which also includes amendments to some of the sections of two other laws, the National Earth Fund Act, as mentioned by the Secretary of State and related to vocational training. I do not wish to repeat all that Mr Secretary of State has said, but I would just like to point out that, on the basis of the bill on the National Earth Fund, any fears which might concern a reduction in the proportion of state land are not true. Essentially, as Mr Secretary of State has said, the institutions want property management rights for the land that has been used for education. So from this point of view, there is no reason for this kind of fear. What I think is important to note in this connection is not about the Earth Fund itself, but it is about the financing with which the Secretary of State closed it. Here, I particularly consider the aspect of the proposal and the aspect of the proposal which highlights the importance of international feedback among the evaluation and funding criteria, in Hungarian, where and as they are included in the international competition, the position that Hungarian universities can assume in international rankings. We know that there are many such international measurement criteria. Depending on this, different positions can be taken up by individual universities in Hungary, but they certainly indicate trends, and I think it is right that this should be included in the principles that define funding at a later stage. This has only one more task to consider, but it is obviously not within the framework of this law, so that these aspects can then be broken down within the walls of the institutions. In other words, this kind of principle of performance can, as a matter of course, have a prominent role within certain faculties, institutes and departments of universities, and can also be implemented individually. I think it's a good and useful direction. By the way, I know that this type of thinking has already started at most universities in Hungary, or such working groups have also set up how and according to what criteria performance awards within the walls of universities should be made. Obviously, it is very difficult to come up with a single system, because there are many different criteria in the field of science, but of course this must be pursued. I consider the part of the proposal that applies to the possibility of granting public funding to ecclesiastical and private higher education institutions under the same conditions as public higher education institutions, the criteria of which and the framework in principle are clearly laid down. This requires the agreement of the Minister for Public Finance, in addition to the Minister of the Specialist, so that in this sense he is sufficiently surrounded financially and economically. The technical amendments to the bill are logically divided into five groups for myself. The first is the organisational issues of higher education, student issues, proposals to promote internationalisation of higher education, proposals for teacher training, and proposals for deregulation. If we look at the changes to the higher education organisation, we see that, on the one hand, there is a serious legal update, if you will, essentially a technical amendment. There is a need to introduce changes to the Higher Education Act that have already occurred in other areas, such as vocational training. Vocational training institutions have also been subject to higher education reservations, so it is sensible and logical that the changes and legal changes that have taken place here will also be reflected in the law governing higher education. I consider it useful to propose or amend a proposal that the higher education institution, as a legal person, can establish an organisational unit with additional legal personality. This will be particularly important for day-to-day practice when an institution has units that are geographically much further away. This is a significant relief from the point of view of day-to-day administration. There are already, as a matter of fact, such institutions, which will continue to exist in the future. In this respect, we can offer a much more flexible opportunity. With regard to the amendments concerning students, I believe that the proposal for pedagogical training is particularly fortunate, because there is virtually no new admission procedure for hiring a teacher in parallel with master's programmes, so there is no need to wait a year in this sense. This will significantly speed things up. This is certainly a great help in vocational teacher training, for example, in the case of engineers, but it can also provide significant help in terms of teaching public knowledge and teaching teachers who will be working in public education. At the same time, we point out that the semester of teachers supported by a public scholarship can be extended by up to two semesters. I also consider the regulation on student work to be forward-looking. This also includes the fact that the higher education institution is not only engaged in activities that are not related to its studies, what I know, say, in a library or in a study department or in the office, but also in an economic organization with the participation of a higher education institution, because there are more and more examples in the country that universities have some kind of ownership or ownership in economic organizations. The national proposals for internationalisation of higher education are an explicit relief, in any case on an administrative basis. It gives institutional competence to define the training output requirement for joint Master's programmes established under the Erasmus + programme. I think it's definitely right. The law also states that, if different conditions are met or different conditions exist, there is no obligation to comply with the rule that a third of the credit value required for training must be obtained in the institution concerned. I believe that this is a good thing and that it is strongly promoting much greater cooperation and joint training in international terms, which, in this respect, facilitates the process of international integration of Hungarian higher education. [[15.30]] As far as I know, those in medical training have been dealing with the problem for a very long time that, even after a long medical course, the Secretary of State mentioned it, it is six years, but let's say that even the vocational training section is built on it, the way to the exam, and it depends on who chooses the area, but we can count on an average of 4-5 years, so this is a very, very long time to pursue a scientific career, let's be honest that it is an incredible long time. This proposal reduces the length of time involved, providing an opportunity that, of course, adds that it is not easy, so as a medical student, in the last two years, start taking PhD courses next to it, collecting credits is not easy, but do not exclude all those who want to take it. So I find this particularly welcome and welcome, as well as the simplification of accreditation of joint training courses in Hungary and abroad. It is also lifelike and simplifying the unnecessary bureaucracy so far that the appointment of a university teacher does not require the opinion of the MAB expert if the instructor fulfils the conditions of employment laid down in the law and has been employed in a foreign institution of university professorship accredited by an accreditation unit of the European Association for Quality Assurance in Higher Education. I would not give specific details of the deregulation proposals, since they are basically always intended to simplify a number of issues and not to burden the legal system unnecessarily. The only thing I would like to draw attention to here is that, by the way of the deregulation proposals, the wording that says that a pedagogical fitness test does not have to be taken is out of the law. I would like to note that I can fully agree with this; not by not being like this, but by disappearing this form, because this form, which has been so far, must be admitted despite all good intentions, has not fulfilled the expectations attached to it. After all, a 10- to 15-minute, maximum 20-minute interview with a career starter basically doesn't tell us much. What needs to be accomplished is rather that the process monitoring and process control of competence are integrated into pedagogical training. I would mention only one short statistics to support this justification: between 2013 and 2018, in five years, the ELTE had 18 qualifications that were said to be inappropriate for teachers: 18 at the University of Debrecen; 14 at the University of Szeged; 13 at Pázmány; 1 at the University of Miskolc. If you compare this with the number of people who have studied in a teaching course during these years, then you can see that this filter did not actually fulfill the expectations, so it doesn't make sense to maintain it. The part that allows process monitoring to be built and operated well has much more meaning, so I can definitely agree with this deregulation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-08-121	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-04-08-122	Thank you very much. I didn't want to talk to the Secretary of State. That's why I came out. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I'd split it into two parts, just like you in your exposé about our position in the debate on the bill. In the first part, in terms of the list as a whole, and in terms of the Minister of State's exposé, I would like to refer to minor amendments, and then, in the second round, I would like to give a brief opinion on the institutional mergers contained in the bill. So let's start with the first part here, too, I would like to go to five points. In the first round, I would like to comment briefly on the parts of the wealth transfer, as my fellow Member Pósán has already indicated, by saying that I also understand the reassuring words of Mr Pósán, and I think that all technical amendments of this kind do have a place in Hungarian higher education, but it is certainly not a coincidence that my fellow Member has already warned us in advance of certain dangers which immediately appear in our association base. The second topic, which I would like to discuss in a little bit more detail, is the two points of this bill on private education institutions, on the one hand, and on the other, the Minister of State's exposé. I fully accept that private institutions have a place in the system of Hungarian higher education, but it does not matter what kind of support these private institutions receive from our common tax forints. And I am arguing that, according to the bill, practically a maintenance decision should depend on which private institution we provide serious support from our common tax forints and which private institutions we do not provide such a source. Basically, I think that if we look at it and then I would like to say a longer line of thought on the institutional structure, but here I would like to note it well in advance - I am not sure that we should be increasing the number of private institutions with different sections of placement and placement. The third point I would like to briefly mention is the issue of teacher training. In the first round, I fully agree with my fellow Member Pósán that when we re-introduced the undivided teacher training from 2013 exactly, this type of competence test is a how to put it? It was a filter, the numbers were actually speaking for themselves, which could only handle the most extreme cases, so only when someone came into the room looking like that, when we were conducting these aptitude tests, it became apparent to the colleague that he wasn't going to be a teacher's colleague. At the same time, the abolition of this is particularly important in the discourse, as the Hungarian public figures and the wider public will interpret it as dangerous, because this means that even this filter should not be taken into account. That is why I would very much support what my fellow Member Pósán has suggested that we should start thinking about a professionally mature alternative and indeed a longer term approach to the teaching career. After all, we are sending a message to society as a whole with such abolitions, and therefore I do not think that it is fortunate, and I do not say it once again - even though I fully agree with it professionally, but at the same time I consider its message to society to be very dangerous, and I would only consider it appropriate to abolish it if there is a common, functional filtration system. Otherwise, the best way to do this would be to make the pedagogical career more desirable and socially recognised for society as a whole. And then we are also on the subject that, despite the fact that I really consider these technical amendments to be fully eligible to be adopted in parallel, and so on, there is no problem with that, there is one problem: here on this chair, sorry, in the other room, from this chair, the Secretary of State Rétvári always threw it in our face, when we dared to talk about a shortage of teachers as opposition politicians, that there is no such thing, and we do not spread rumors. However, this is a poverty certificate here, because this means that the justification clearly shows that there is a shortage of teachers, and what Jobbik, as a national party, has always drawn attention to is that in a priority nation strategy sector, it has not been possible for ten years to watch the coral, and we see that at present more than half or slowly half of the pedagogical society is over 50 years old, and we are not doing anything because this has happened so far. [[15.40]] So I think that these technical amendments are completely in order, but they do not address the very serious lack of teachers and the very obvious nature of society as a whole in this viral epidemic situation. Let's keep moving. As far as doctoral training is concerned, I can fully support this here, and as I have heard from my university colleagues, the new doctoral school also works perfectly well, so I definitely consider this to be eligible. In the same way as I think it should be supported that, in the case of academic appointments, not only the opinion of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee, but also the opinion of the European organisation, contrary to what sometimes appeared in the press, how incredibly insidious it is against quality. Before my fellow Members nod too much satisfaction, I would like to point out that this is because the MAB had been empty before it, and therefore the MAB was excluded from the European organisation for many years because it was completely under government control. I welcome this because I value a European accreditation more than, unfortunately, the MAB, which has been very seriously redesigned recently. However, I think that I can very much welcome the solution to the joint trainings, because when I was a university leader, we denied it, I dealt with the fact that the Ministry and I tried to come up with a modus vivendi that started accreditation of these joint trainings. So I very much welcome the fact that my current colleagues, if we approve this amendment to the Higher Education Act, will no longer have to deal with this issue as to how this is going to happen. Let's keep moving. I think that the second half of this bill would require very different levels of mergers and mergers. My first and general remark is that I wrote a letter to the dean of all the faculties involved and to the rector of all the universities involved, and sometimes I even got answers from a lot of colleagues. I got very different levels of preparation and then I got an answer. I will also say this here and then for our next item on the agenda. I think that having a large agricultural university that Mr. Secretary of State talked about in his expo would be basically an eligible thing in a country of this size, such as Hungary. I have one problem with all of this: every experience so far shows that the operation of a geographically fragmented institution will not be better if we put a seal on it. So the experience of integrating all the remote training sites so far will not be cheaper, the structure of training will not be more transparent, the training will not be more qualitative if this transformation does not also mean a radical rethink of the whole system at university level. So I would like to point out to the Secretary of State: that we want to bring all the agricultural education or, to a large degree, all the institutions involved in agricultural education together into a large university, it would look basically good if we didn't have the experiences of the past many years that show us that this doesn't work very well. Here, too, I would like to draw attention to and then turn to my last point, the financing system - that at some point, I think, he lived three months, my fellow university leaders at the time may well remember a concept we used to call a pole-university concept. I think it was no accident that the State Secretary did not suddenly become State Secretary after three months, because, in my memory, it was a concept that tried to restructure this institutional system, a complete Hungarian institutional system, on the basis of a fundamental concept. What I see is that what has happened since then is mergers, withdrawals, geographically distant places, Georgikon, and the rest - I don't see behind them the concept, the long-term strategic concept that the higher education strategy is talking about. So I can fully identify with the Secretary of State for the reasons. Obviously, that would be our case. What I do see, however, is that in these mergers and withdrawals I have not seen much of a concept in the last ten years, and I see the same here, again, except for the agricultural science part, technically. The fact that the leaders of certain arms, let's say, are suffering from such restructurings as a kind of lightning strike, we have become accustomed under the Fidesz government to not being very cooperative with those involved, but I think that we should consider these mergers very seriously here, which can indeed lead to the development of a longer-term, conceptually forward-looking training structure. I very much welcome the funding system that this bill will finally give us. Mr. Secretary of State probably read Jobbik's 2018 election program, which I literally wrote in this way. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Day and night. Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] After ten years of gradually breaking down by Fidesz, let the system, education, research, and maintenance costs get back to the universities, as usual, never in such a quality, but there were the strapped money, especially with regard to research, because here, especially in the major universities, there were problems with this. In summary, this is a very interesting bill, most of which I think I can support on the basis of both professional and other arguments. The second half, on the other hand, raised serious question marks, and I look forward to Mr Secretary of State's reply to the questions I have raised. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-04-08-123	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2020-04-08-124	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your expo. I do not want to go into details because of it, and obviously there will be a way to do so later in the debate, when questions are raised, because details should not be included because both Mr Secretary and my fellow Member Pósán have explained the law in detail. First of all, I would like to thank the Hungarian teachers, university teachers and teachers for demonstrating a fairly high and high level of standing in the current situation. When there is digital distance learning, when universities and colleges are physically closed, but education is going on, and when secondary schools and primary schools are in place, I think that is why they should be thanked for this, for this position. We talk about this less often here in Parliament, but I think it is very important that, once we have come to such a topic, we have a few words about it. Since 2010, the national government has maintained its objective. Our aim is to build an efficient, competitive national higher education system, which is marketable, innovative, XXI. He's also giving me centuries of knowledge in addition to his degree. Thanks to the high quality of Hungarian universities that have been scolded by the opposition, they are issuing young graduates for whom the world's most prestigious companies are lining up. The quality of Hungarian public education and Hungarian higher education is also praised by the fact that they have given qualified young people, who are partly due to the fact that after 2010 the Hungarian economy recovered and continued to grow. Economic growth has been 5 per cent over the last two years until the current crisis. In recent years, many multinational companies have selected Hungary as their research and development and innovation site thanks to BlackRock, Siemens Group, Ericsson, ExxonMobil or BMW, partly thanks to the performance of Hungarian educational institutions and students. Ferenc Gyurcsány and his principle friends introduced tuition fees in higher education, indebted universities, and in public education they put 14,000 teachers on the streets, closed more than a hundred schools, together with a further 700 schools, with which the local school ceased in a thousand settlements. On the other hand, we have reopened schools, renovated schools, a number of university campuses have been renewed in the last ten years, many college seats have been renewed and these investments are ongoing. [[15.50]] This is not a closed process, and it would be a mistake if we could see it as a closed list. Renewal of universities, campuses, building colleges is a continuous thing. On more than one occasion, we have asked for the expansion of college seats, and when the Ministry of Education, under the leadership of Zoltán Balog, could sign the agreement with the National Conference of Students' Local Governments, a very important, forward-looking agreement was signed, and I think that both the development of scholarships and the continuous renovation, development and construction of college seats are a process that everyone in Hungary can only welcome today. Compared to 2009, two thousand more students graduated in 2019 and 1,200 more teachers are present in higher education, while our national government aims to provide competitive, real knowledge for graduates and not for university students alone, but also for the number of graduates. The bill we are discussing now contains further changes to more effective, more successful higher education, the aim being to create a new funding system for higher education institutions instead of the former unilateral funding system, since the basic financing of the operation cannot be the only measure and indicator of the number of active students. Under the new scheme, a three-legged financing model would be introduced for the Austrian model, which would provide specific support for educational, research and artistic activities and infrastructure maintenance. The bill contains a number of technical, quality and deregulation amendments which, of course, improve the efficiency of modern higher education. Here we have this bill partly on the basis of successful international examples, and successful international examples are the basis for the amendments that we are now seeing. I would like to point out to my fellow Member, Brenner Koloman, that when the European Quality Assurance Register became a member of the MAB, we first applied for this place. When the MAB became a member of the European Quality Assurance Register, I think that it is a great success in itself at European level, and that it is monitoring the Bologna system in particular - Hungary and the MAB can be a member of it for the first time, and they already have a certain membership until 2023, and therefore the higher education quality assurance system has also provided additional guarantees in this way. I think that changing degrees in higher education is a very good direction. The current bill further supports this, increases its efficiency, facilitates funding, and various partial amendments also serve to make Hungary an even better, more competitive higher education. This, I think, or at least hope, is the common goal of everyone in this room, of every party. I think that the more than 30,000 foreign students are also proof of this, that we have a place in the international higher education market, our common goal is to improve higher education. I am asking my fellow Members to support this bill for these common objectives. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-08-125	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Zita Gurmai, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-04-08-126	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! I would like to rejoin Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc: indeed, thanks to all teachers who work with children, whether in public education or higher education. This is an extraordinary situation that has cost us and cost us, and I have to say that this is obviously also an extraordinary challenge for everyone. There's only one question here, what about kids who can't access the Internet, but that's not our topic. Specifically, the law. I would like to thank Vice-President István Hiller, who would normally be the lead speaker, but after he soon took over the presidency, so I was given this honour. I see that there is some confusion in your system, because the law on higher education that we have just submitted tells us that there is no uniform concept in your mind. They say that universities need to be decentralized, but in public education they have implemented nationalisation that has not been done in the last six decades. So, what's this all about? What is not effective in public education is effective in higher education? What does education policy mean? Education policy means that we must accompany the life of a Hungarian youth along a single concept, and that is all, but not a single concept. You have big problems, my fellow Members, big problems or big thefts, one worse than the other. Trouble is, they're referring to the example of Corvinus, which hasn't been working in this form for another year. In the absence of experience, it is ridiculous to refer to this. The University of Kaposvár is melted into its gödöllős, but they no longer think that Kaposvár has an art faculty, so then Gödöllő will have the teaching of the composition of fertilizer and the aesthetics and the theatre direction together. Congratulations. [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: This is the next one!]] There is real integration between the University of Veszprém and the University of Keszthely, which this new concept simply beats apart because Keszthely is integrated into Szent István University. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: This is another bill.]] The Faculty of Zalaegerszeg is separated from the Budapest University of Economics and is combined with Veszprém, where regional aspects must prevail. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] My apologies, fellow Members, I forgot to say that I will make these two speeches in one piece, thank you very much for the warning. Absolutely right, I forgot that at the beginning, so thank you very much. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: Two in one.]] Two for one. It's a regional aspect. Then what's the Kaposvár art faculty doing in Gödöllő? It is time to decide what the guiding principle of this whole fidesz mix-up is, thematics or regionality, because now it's a big mess. Or do you wish for what is currently the property of these universities, real estate, including hotels and farmland? But I benevolently believe that you simply don't know what you want. We can even agree on improving the quality of higher education, but their ambition to have fewer students in universities is simply unacceptable. And, you know, fellow Members, we are talking not only about a system, but also about human fate. Teachers working in higher education are currently civil servants, but this status will cease in foundation maintenance. Do you really think that the current emergency is the best time for you to endanger the safety of hundreds of people? Of course, we know that if it's for your own good, then nothing is expensive for Fidesz. And what you think of autonomy and private wealth has long been clear. Whether it is about anything, health or education, Fidesz aims to reduce autonomy and establish the fullest possible control of the party state. As regards the respect for other assets: theft of the property of the farmhouse, the private pension funds or the downfall of the institutions of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, we have already experienced that what Viktor Orbán likes is a prize for Fidesz. Universities have always been nests of freedom, hotbeds of critical thinking, and wealth. That's two good reasons for Fidesz to take them down. Viktor Orbán's party is now at the same time attacking the autonomy of universities and in order for his buddies to acquire property in the asset management of universities. I just want to remind you that a number of properties in Győr, Balatonalmádi and Mosonmagyaróvár have been designated among the properties designated in the bill, and not only kindergarten, secondary school and university buildings, but also several hotel buildings. And it is well known that members of the Orbán family and their loyal stooge prefer to collect hotels. As the agricultural institutions become the property of foundations, significant land is taken out of the state's wealth. I'm asking you quietly, has anyone considered the loss of state assets? The law states that the university will be entitled to sell the real estate transferred to it, but may use the proceeds from the sale of the real estate only as provided for in this Act. In my opinion, however, the question is not what will happen to the money thus received; it will probably be used according to the prescribed rules. The real question is which fidesz oligarch is looking forward to looking at the properties, hotels and land managed by universities, thanks, of course, to the Fidesz-led foundations for smoking. [[16.00]] I'll give you an example. According to the bill, in respect of real estate registered as Natura 2000 land to be transferred, the Government Decree on the management of State property does not apply, according to which the prior agreement of the Minister responsible for the nature of the protection is required for the ownership or transfer of protected property. According to the provisions on national assets, the State has exclusive ownership of parks owned by the State which are unfit. However, on the basis of the bill, the public park to be transferred to the university will therefore be considered as marketable, i.e. it will be freely available to some. We have no doubt that if a buyer near Orbán comes, the maintenance foundation will welcome his offer with open arms, as this body will not be led by independent and professionally selected persons, but by fidesz cadres implementing the government's will. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] This is a significant change, since with this amendment package, the government will transform six universities into a university with foundational reservations. The MSZP cannot vote for this barbaric mutilation of autonomy, which embeds this free robbery, because the independence of universities is not seen as guaranteed in many respects. We do not have the guarantees to ensure that a new Foundation maintainer will be managed by independent and professional persons, as we can read in the bill that the members of the Board of Governors can be put together by the Minister himself. The form of foundation alone does not provide any guarantee of independence, as training will continue to be decided by the government, and the foundation can and will be filled with people who do the government's will. The current transformation also does not strengthen social mobility, as it does not guarantee that talented but difficult young people can receive higher education. And last but not least, the traipsing of the assets in the management of universities to fidesz buddies is a proposal that a party that feels responsible for a nation can never vote for. And if you will allow me now, opposition representatives of Kaposvár have prepared a press release that, I think, is to the heart, because they express their extreme disappointment at the government's decision to merge it with St. Stephen's University, based in Gödöllő. In fact, they talk about the fact that universities with a much smaller number of students than Kaposvár remain, such as Dunaújváros, Sopron. We are disappointed because we thought that the operation of the university was surrounded by political consensus, because 20 years ago the first Orbán government initiated its establishment, and then the subsequent governments continuously developed the university. In 2005, for example, the new campus buildings were inaugurated together by the then Minister of Education, Bálint Magyar and his predecessors, Zoltán Pokorni and József Pálinkás. However, the true power of higher education in Kaposvár was not that it has always been possible to win the state's support, but that its future could always be dreamed on the spot. This gave him his identity and led the founders: Péter Horn, former rector, József Baka, and Director General of Economics Sándor Leitner. With the loss of autonomy and the foundation operation, not only their dreams are lost, but also what has been achieved and achieved by the university leaders and citizens together, in addition to the ongoing and drastic reduction in state funding since 2010. So far, it seemed like the county and city leaders were always on the side of the university. We were disappointed that, despite the winning election, the mayor's lobbying power had run out, and Attila Gelencsér, the city's parliamentary representative, had not yet shown such capacity. They should also know that the result of the current decision may be that higher education in Kaposvár is going down, which is a demonstrable loss of billions for the city. Less revenue for landlords, caterers, taxi drivers, theatres, cinemas, bookstores, and other businesses whose services are not only used by students, but also by university workers who linked their lives to Kaposvár. There are nearly 600 of them, so the University of Kaposvár is one of the largest employers in the city. However, with the loss of the university's autonomy, not only their existence and foundational function could put their existence as civil servants at risk, but also the goal of the mayor's so many times: let Kaposvár be the leading city of the region! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. And it's obvious, after this announcement to the mayor, they're talking about there's no leading city without university, but there's no really strong one. However, the loss of autonomy and the possible deterioration of higher education are not only financial losses for Kaposvár and the region, but also intellectual and cultural. Rural universities, including Kaposvár, are one of the most important depositaries of rural Hungary's catching up and keeping young people. In the South-Transdanubian region, which is not only a country, but also one of the poorest regions in the EU, this may be a greater role for our university than other universities, even with Pécs. In trouble you have to give it, not take it! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This was one of Károly Sita's slogans over the last decade, which now seems to fail to enforce, even though right now the city is in trouble and home. Despite the uncertainty about the decision and the state dictatorship, the press release issued by the university leaders shows how committed they are to the independent campus in Kaposvár and try to save what can be saved from the Universitas in Kaposvár. However, in the current situation, the mayor and the county's parliamentary representatives could do the most by withdrawing the bill threatening the independence of the University of Kaposvár until it is too late. If they do, they will betray their city, county, and everything they have allegedly believed in. Tiborn Molnár, Democratic Coalition; Krisztián Mészáros, President of the Kaposvár Foundation of Jobbik; Frigyes Felder, President of the county of Kaposvár and Somogy; Dávid Bereczki, President of Momentum Movement in Kaposvár, and Attila Pintér, President of the Kaposvár Association of the Hungarian Socialist Party. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would certainly ask you to reconsider that, and thank you once again, fellow Members, for warning me now that I have two in one. Thank you so much for listening. In the beginning, I indicated to Vice-President Hiller that I was the lead speaker because Mr Vice-President was chairing, but thank you for the preparation.
u2020-04-08-127	Thank you very much for giving this relatively visible situation orally to the Member. Thank you very much for your speech. Welcome. We'll get back to work. Congressman Gergely Arató, the lead speaker of DK is coming. Here you go.
u2020-04-08-128	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Let me begin, in an unusual way, with a memorial, which is, after all, linked to this bill. I recently received news that Dr. János Szüdi, former Secretary of State of the Ministry of Education and Culture, State Secretary of the Ministry of Education, who served Hungarian education in various ministry positions for 25 years, was one of the best and most competent lawyers in this field. In recent years, he has helped the Democratic Coalition work, and he has also prepared me for this bill. All of us who knew Mr President were close colleagues of ours - this is a huge loss for those of us, but I also think that it is a huge loss for Hungarian education.
u2020-04-08-129	I'm asking for a sentence. I, too, deeply mourn, everyone who knew him, and I would like to express my sincere condolences to his family. Go on. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita: Get up! Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Let's get up in my opinion. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea stays standing.]]
u2020-04-08-130	Since I have summoned János Szüdi here, let me also bring to you the two principles of this bill that you have hit very hard into the minds of the politicians you worked with. One is that making legislation is a very serious matter. This requires serious preparation, and serious preparation, coordination, measuring, very detailed and careful work. The second is that it is only in the best interests of the child that determine the law of education. We have also looked at this law through this filter, and I have to say that, while this legislation is of much better quality and much more thought-out in its intentions than many pieces of the educational legislation of the past period, it is not eligible and acceptable in this form. A significant part is because it is unnecessary, because it is not so urgent, because it is free because this is not the problem of higher education and this is not the problem of the country. There are a number of proposals in this bill, a change that actually goes into the right directions, it is worth talking about. [[16.10]] There are also a number of them that correct earlier, perhaps inadequately thought-out decisions, such as retrieving the funding system into a three-legged system, or even a pedagogical exam. This has been mentioned by Mr Pósán, and it is worth recalling that the professional arguments that he has just given us have been given by the institutions working in pedagogical training at a time when it is not possible to establish competence with an entrance exam and the examination of fitness should be included as a continuous consideration in pedagogical training. But we also have to ask these measures: okay, but they were in agreement, we know the opinion of the Rector's Conference, we know the opinion of the educational institutions, we have had a professional debate about it, and if there was a professional debate about it, we have to decide on this now by the Parliament during a coronal virus epidemic. I understand that this is a government tactic, that we must now employ the Parliament, but from the substantive decisions on the economic management of the epidemic, Parliament has been excluded from the Parliament, and instead we have to make legislative proposals, but I think higher education deserves more than to discuss the problems of higher education here as a substitute, it deserves to be talked about in a time when there is a way to negotiate, to negotiate, and then there is time to prepare. Consider that the measures that have now been introduced should be applied by universities at a time when they should be prepared for these when otherwise they have a huge burden on their shoulders. I fully agree with Congressman Nacsa on this, that we all thank those working in Hungarian higher education for solving this difficult situation and, unlike what he thinks, the opposition is not criticising universities and not higher education, but the higher education policy that you are pursuing, and as a result, higher education is not capable of achieving the same performance that the country could reasonably expect from the professional knowledge and dedication of its employees. These are the measures, and there are quite a few more I do not want to go through the bill, since several of my fellow Members have already gone through these points one by one - I think, which can be emphasised, and we are basically looking at the right direction, but perhaps we should think about it, refine it, discuss it more widely, but I am not bringing them up here individually. There is also a part of the bill that, contrary to these measures, is, in our view, extremely dangerous and harmful in this form. This bill is the basis for the list of institutions and the proposal for higher education institutions in Hungary, perhaps the largest restructuring of higher education since 2000. I have to tell you, if something can't be done in this way, this must be it. There are two important elements of this: on the one hand, it reorganises the institutions without discussion, without reflection, and at least in a public, controversial and if not close to consensus, but at least in a state of unconventional understanding. There is a higher education faculty, an establishment now, which, if I count it correctly, will be ranked fourth in 20 years, and must be in the fourth organisational form. And don't tell me you've been disbeliefs about the University of Kaposvár earlier - that it doesn't matter that it works as an independent institution, and let me say that it doesn't belong to Eger or to Gödöllő again, from which he came; not by accident, but because of the bad experiences there, I'm talking about Gyöngyös. So what I have to say to you is that this is one of the very dangerous trends that I still say because I was sitting in the chair where I am now Secretary of State, and I know that this is an eternal theme of higher education: tailoring, sewing, doing, taking institutions. There are always institutional needs, there are always public needs, but if something can't be done this way, that we will submit a bill on Wednesday, and then we will vote on it in two weeks' time, then this must be it. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Tuesday!]] This is totally unacceptable. Excuse me, Tuesday, say Congressman, I may have miscounted. So, two weeks and three days and not two weeks and two days, but however this thing is, the thing is, these are not decisions that can be made in this way. There is clearly no consensus behind these organisational changes, there is no consensus in Gyöngyös' case, there is no consensus in Kaposvár's case. We see that in Kaposvár, let me tell you, there are statements of resignation from the university leadership that, yeah, well, if you want it so much, then, of course, let us stay as university centers. But they didn't ask, they didn't initiate, and the university community in Kaposvár doesn't support this transformation. They have 20 years of work to create it from a non-green field, but on the basis of some college initiatives, a university with campus, an independent organizational culture, a student base and a teaching faculty, with initiatives such as theater arts, which meant that such a type of training finally appeared in the countryside. We know that this has happened in a highly controversial political environment, but what has happened is that something has happened there, which is now being said because it is hard for us to imagine, at least I, for example, what the role of this arm will be in the new, established foundational agro-higher education, and I find it very difficult to imagine. Elsewhere, in Kecskemét, the pedagogical college is cut off, given to the church. They always love to give to the church, we know that, but that also means that there is an important institutional transformation there. And of course, I understand that it is in the market interest for the Kecskemét College to get rid of the non-profit-making, non-marketable, non-industrial pedagogical training, but it is certainly not in the same interest of the city, the region, as this means that the possibility of public pedagogue training is further reduced and the role of church educators is increasing. It is a big question, and once again the situation will arise that the student does not decide that he wants to go to a church or state institution, but the situation will decide whether he will have to go there or go there, but there is not much else to go to Budapest, so he can go to Budapest or Szeged. So, the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that these changes are not sufficiently thought-out, are not sufficiently well founded, and are not actually presented by the presentation, and I want to emphasise in particular the benefits that it expects from this type of transformation, and it does not show what the effects of this transformation will have. The other issue, after all, is that we are forced to bring it here, even though privatization of a significant part of higher education. Because you can call it something else, but you have to look at the annex to the bill. It is only in the annex to this bill, and I have also learned that it is always in the annex. It is necessary to look at the annex to the bill, and it can be seen that by publishing this law, the number of state higher education institutions is substantially reduced by five, according to this proposal, because the University of St. Stephen is being transferred to the next change. Whatever we say to this, and you will tell us that wow, but cool, because then it will work as a foundation, and what benefits there are for sure, I do not even dispute, and I know that some of the higher education institutions are waiting for this opportunity, which, of course, I think is a little bit about how they feel about the state's maintenance system - but the thing is, I think that in the longer term, it is not in the interests of the country and it is not in the interests of the students. What about the country? It's probably worth starting with. It is possible to reduce state higher education and to say that it will then work on a market basis and on the assets allocated to them; this concept has also been strongly debated at Corvinus. I'd like to ask you how much the shares that have been submitted to the Corvinus foundation are now worth. What return does the foundation expect at Corvinus this year? We'll see how the fairies are doing, how the stock market's doing. You remember, we talked about this here at the time, said the Minister, that he was involved in the debate at the time, that there is a very serious fortune there, which will ensure that the state's tasks are carried out. And we said that we thought it was a little risky to trust higher education to operate, to operate universities, to see what returns there are on the stock exchange. Obviously, none of us expected to experience a crisis with such an economic impact as is now, but this is always part of such market financing. [[16.20]] I must add that the Corvinus University can be fully expected and indeed could be accounted for - that there will be significant market revenue. I can even accept that you expect, although we do not see any calculations, impact assessments, nothing at the next item on the agenda, that, say, in the case of the University of Kecskemét or the University of Győr, the car companies there will join in financing and operation, if they can afford it, because the situation on the car market is very different now than it was a few months ago. At the same time, there are institutions here, Soproni or the University of Miskolc, where it is not possible to see how a large number of eligible students, whether domestic or foreign students, or industrial support that will make these institutions work in the long term. I am forced to say that the government is gambling with the operation of a range of higher education institutions. It places these institutions on an uncertain basis, while, as a lesson from the 2008 crisis, those countries that had previously tended to prefer to operate in a more stable state of interest and to operate in the market. What about the students? The situation is developing, and Corvinus also has no guarantee of state-funded places in non-state universities. It follows, and I do not even dispute, that the intention is indeed to have scholarships in these non-state universities. Only when the economic difficulties come, it won't be available. We understand that this has very, very serious risks to Hungarian higher education, in terms of students' chances. It is also understandable that the affected settlements, perhaps I have not mentioned Keszthely yet, which they are relocating, are once again only after a long search for a place, and the debate on the role of Georgikon or Pannon Agrir Center will come to a rest, and the wound will be severed there, and the institution will be transferred there, without there being any substantial support at all. Of course, we could remove these doubts by showing how Corvinus University works successfully, but this has not happened, so unfortunately, overall, I have to say that we cannot support this proposal because of ideas on agricultural higher education, restructuring of institutions and privatisation. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-08-131	Thank you very much. Now it's time for LMP lead speaker László Keresztes, leader of the Lóránt Group. Here you go.
u2020-04-08-132	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Rector! I would like to comment very briefly on this debate, my fellow Members have said a lot of things, and I would actually like to refer to the most important statements made in the debate. I think it is a very positive idea, with which my fellow Member Nacsa started and my fellow Members continued, it is indeed very important that we thank the teachers and all the staff working in higher education for their work in this extremely difficult situation. An unexpected challenge needs to be adapted very, very quickly, which is still being fought in many places, obviously this will be a very, very serious challenge. That was an important message. However, it was less important and less worthy of the message that the opposition was scolding Hungarian universities. I respectfully reject that, Congressman. The opposition does not abuse Hungarian universities. In many cases, the opposition is making sharp criticisms of your policy, and I think that it is well founded. If we are already expressing our thanks to the higher education staff in relation to the teachers and staff working in higher education, I would like to ask Mr Nacsa immediately that, if this is the case, he may not have made a statement worthy of the subject and the period, how he considers this to be worthy, in the position that teachers and even researchers are in with regard to wages, so if there is a change of grades in higher education, when there will be a change in the wages of Hungarian teachers and researchers. I think that it is an unworthy situation that today in Hungary a university assistant who has put a lot of work into studying has obtained a doctorate degree and now earns practically as much as a loader. I think that, until this situation is resolved, it is not possible to take seriously the government's sublime plans, the shift in gear, and the fact that it is paying any attention to the challenges that really affect everyone. I'd like to refer to one more thing. Mr Secretary of State rightly said, and it was very welcome that we are now faced with a very serious challenge, a global challenge, the extremely rapid spread of a new type of virus and the crisis that has created it, and it presents researchers with a very serious challenge, trying to find a solution to this issue as soon as possible by competing with time. I think that we can be very proud of the fact that Hungarian researchers in this situation have already had serious results and progress. I think that as a Pécsi, we can also draw attention to the fact that we can be proud of the priority and role of researchers in Pécs, the research group in Pécs, and have already been able to deliver significant results. I think that we should thank you for this and wish them further success in this extremely important work. Mr Secretary of State, Rector, he also pointed out that this shows that there are many such excellent, well-prepared Hungarian experts and researchers. That's true. Obviously, the stake of such a debate on education policy and higher education is that we are concerned that Hungarian higher education will continue to be able to prepare such highly-educated and well-prepared professionals in the future, and that is obviously what opposition factions and parties want. That is why we are also expressing our criticism, where appropriate, and I am relatively often concerned with the policy of the last ten years concerning higher education. The most common words we can hear from the government here in the last ten years, or from a pro-government representative in the last ten years, are the different passwords and guiding principles, this is competitiveness, efficiency and so on. These sound very well on their own, but it is not certain that the results so far reflect this fact, that this is indeed how it appears in your policy. It is a challenge, the 21st. This clearly highlights the importance of higher education and the scientific world, as it is clear that it is the knowledge-based economy, the educated head of man and the turn towards high value-added jobs that can increase competitiveness and competitiveness for countries. Unfortunately, in this respect, the Hungarian government has gone in a very wrong direction over the last ten years, despite the fact that there are really signs and we do not deny that they are trying to correct this direction and have learned to some extent from the mistakes. It is very clear, and I would refer here to the introduction of Mr Secretary of State that we really must always say it, and we must never forget that universities alone are not only educational institutions, but also social, cultural life, scientific life and extremely important players in economic life. Students and educators themselves are very important players in the life of a given city, and universities are the key depositories of the potential of economic eruptions and innovation. It can also be said that, if we look at the country, the increasing territorial differences, it must be said, it should be stressed that in many places, in rural areas, these large universities are, in fact, the last bastions of the population-reserving power of the countryside, the stopping of the fall. Unfortunately, one of the most serious criticisms about the Fidesz government's policy is that rural higher education is the biggest loser of the reforms and reforms of recent years in Hungary today. We can look at the different student numbers. In the same way, the universities in the capital can show a stagnation, but huge, different, but huge, and looking at it individually, sometimes we can report quite shocking reductions in the number of students. I've talked about Pécs several times. The University of Pécs had more than 10,000 students down, which is a huge tragedy. It has also been pointed out by Mrs Gurmai that the South-Transdanubian region is one of the most deprived regions of the Union, one of the 20 poorest regions of the Union. Therefore, we are very shocked to see that in this way rural higher education institutions have lost to your education policy. We are constantly experiencing the withdrawal of funds, the various restrictions, regardless of the reorganisations. But I would like to refer you back here again, the most serious question is that the teachers' and researchers' wages have not yet been settled. What has taken place in the last period as a title for wage development has not been enough to maintain their position in the income ranking of higher education workers and researchers, and as a result, a huge drop in careers has been observed. It's a shocking measure, and it's no wonder. So researchers have to work for extremely humiliating wages. Obviously, this is a profession that requires a lot of commitment, it takes a long time to prepare, acquire a scientific degree, gain experience. In such a situation, when there is great uncertainty and lack of adequate remuneration, there is no adequate fee, it is definitely creating uncertainty, and in this way fewer and fewer people will choose this career. There are a lot of untrained people, and a lot of people even leave the country, and if they want to continue their career for proper wages, we lose a lot of such well-prepared, talented professionals, researchers and instructors. This is a huge mistake. Now I can give you examples, and I do not want to waste time on how university autonomy has been reduced. I think this has to stop. [[16.30]] I thought it was very, very good now, didn't we, we have a lot of debates with DK, but that Congressman Gergely Arató, I think, is on the point that, yes, it cannot be denied, there are good directions, there are good measures here, but it is quite clear that this is the case that we are now in, and the exit of which we are not exactly seeing, is not suitable to start or kick in such a major transformation. However, I do not think that this bill has now been introduced to the Parliament in order to try to show a kind of facade like this. I'm guessing there's some kind of concept on the part of the government, and it would have been put in front of the National Assembly anyway. However, it must be seen that we are in a special situation now, and this period even makes it difficult to conduct appropriate social and professional consultations. However, I do not trust that the government will withdraw this proposal, but I would like to point out that it would be wise, if, as in such a different area of life, the government were to adapt to this emerging epidemiological situation, to an emergency, to postpone these measures a little bit, and to give it the opportunity to negotiate professionally when possible. We can basically conclude here, as a major critical remark in recent years, that the government does not respect the institutional autonomy of the university in any way. They do not regard those involved as partners, those who have a great deal of information about the practical side of higher education, let alone not regard it as a partner, but very often explicitly push through their proposals despite their intentions. We do not see any guarantees regarding the proposals that we are about to see, and we do not see that they are learning sufficiently from the mistakes made. So I would like to draw your attention to these. And I would like to make one last comment: I am Pécsi, my family is Pécs, but I was born in Kaposvár, so I was particularly touched by the measures I saw there, the measures being prepared, in this way concerning the independence of the University of Kaposvár. Thank you, Mrs President, for presenting this press release, and I will not mention this, which I would have done anyway. But I see it as a rather shocking example in a remote region, in a city that also struggles to survive as a region that is falling apart, a Hungarian midtown, an attack of this kind against the autonomy of the institution, that it does not meet with the agreement of the locals, and I consider this to be a very serious irresponsible thing on the part of the government. So I also hope that the President of the County City Association, Mayor Charles Sita, will try to stop this decision from happening at the last minute. At the same time, I can say that I am confident that the government will consider this special situation, and that it does not want to push this proposal through without any substantive discussion, although it is obviously too idealistic to think that it will, but I did have to say it. I can say that, in its present state, the LMP faction will not be able to support these proposals on the basis of the criticisms that many of my fellow Members have given us in detail. Thank you.
u2020-04-08-133	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that we have reached the end of the speaker's speeches. The first independent Member who has applied may speak, so I give the floor to Mr Szabolcs Szabó. Here you go.
u2020-04-08-134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Before I get to what I've written about the bill, I'd like to grab on to a half sentence or a line of thought, as Mr. Rector said in his expozee. Literally, he said that if we lacked the enthusiasm of the instructors, this was the literal quote, and then about the content of it was how good it would be if we now imposed specific conditions in order to increase competitiveness, and then, in line with that, everyone will know exactly what they need to do. Since I've been a university instructor, but I think that the colleagues can back this up, we've always known exactly what conditions are expected of us or what they expect from us, they've always been strict for some reason, and yet we felt that way, and many and more people still feel that they lack enthusiasm. And the main reasons for this are rather what Mr László Lóránt Keresztes said, but also Mr Rector knows exactly what salaries are like. Well, the salary of a teaching assistant, assistant professor, associate professor is, to put it mildly, below the bottom of the frog, despite the small increase that has taken place in several steps in recent years. And that's just one of them, but we do know that there are a lot of people who have fulfilled all the conditions, and yet they don't come up on the academic rankings; simply because, let's say, the university doesn't have the money to make an assistant professor, and let's say, for three years, it's been there as an internationally recognized researcher, as a habilitated assistant. And then you have two options: either you leave the university or you take a second job and a third job. This is where I think we need to look for the lack of enthusiasm, not structural transformation. But that was just one of those little remarks, since you've given up the high ball, Mr. Rector. But then let's move on to this specific amendment of the law. This is a proposal that colleagues have already analysed this amendment from several directions, which contains a lot of elements that the opposition and the profession have been saying for a very long time. It reacts to these, sometimes well or less well, but at least it feels like we're going in some direction, and then we'll deal with the problems that have arisen for a long time. And, of course, there are elements in it that are unacceptable in this form. That's pretty much what I'd go through. On the one hand, there are indeed technical amendments, which have already been explained in more detail by colleagues, but they are introducing an amendment to the VET Act, and then they can also be the maintenance staff of the university vocational school, but they are amending the rules of student contracts. Let me say that what I understand less is that the text of the amendment of the law is that, I quote, the training programme will not be linked to the basic activity of the higher education institution, or it will also be possible to conclude student contracts in the higher education institution or in the farming organisation with the participation of the higher education institution. The explanatory memorandum also states that it will be possible to work in the study office afterwards. These two don't fit. There is the truth, as László Pósán said, that companies will be able to employ bad justifications actually, that was bad in this presentation. In a sense, I consider it technical, but a forward-looking technical amendment to the transformation of doctor's PhD training, the modification of the student status system, the rewriting of the rules on the compulsory number of credits in the parent institution and, in fact, the regulation of training in international cooperation. These are all technical but well-oriented technical regulations. I don't have a problem with that shit. I could support that in my own right. The next block is teachers' or teachers' training. This is typically an element that the opposition and the profession have been saying for a very long time. We always come close to this from a lack of teachers and very few teacher students in higher education, no replacements. You've tried to give more answers to this in recent years, without any particular impact. So they did not have the explosive effect in terms of interest that they expected or could have expected from them, and I think that these amendments that have just been tabled will not do this either. 'Cause, for example, you know, you're gonna be able to take the teacher's class without a special admission procedure. But they didn't apply for teaching because they needed a separate admission procedure, but it was actually a formality in this respect. Nor will it obviously be a meaningful turn of events, which László Pósán also mentioned in detail that this suitability test will be removed from the recruitment process. In fact, it was an alibi procedure, and a magnifying glass could really be used to find a listener who wouldn't have been hired for it. During the training, it was revealed who was suitable for a teacher, who was not, and in many cases even the system was established that the otherwise seemingly unfit student was allowed to get to graduation, and the final examination committee, before the paper was distributed, swore that he would never go near a child in his life; he took the oath and received it. So they have gone through the system, but we know what is behind this, which is why the exception of this real alibi condition will not have any effect on this. [[16.40]] To be honest, I think it is a good course in itself at first that these two six-month exercises will be integrated into the training, i.e. 11-12 semesters of undivided teacher training. Again, it will not increase the number of graduates or teachers for a year or two for technical reasons, because it will be faster, but it alone will not increase the number of candidates. But I consider the direction acceptable in this regard. What I can't quite understand is why it's a good thing that we're pushing primary and high school teacher training together. I can live with that. I just don't get it. I would appreciate it if you would explain a little more that the person who specifically suggested this, because he justified it, because when we talked to experts about it, we always found that it was so different for a primary school teacher and a high school educator to do something different, that we needed different methods and a different attitude that we didn't really see the meaning of it. But, I'm telling you, I'm open if the Rector can convince me. I would like to take a detailed explanation for this. The third block, which I would like to highlight specifically, is the restructuring of universities. I would start from where my fellow Member Brenner Koloman finished this block by not seeing the concept. Well, I don't really see the concept either, because we're actually putting a new institution in the system again. It's not the Corvinus model, it's a one-man model. In this transformation, they create these six state, foundational, or I don't know what to call a university, because it's not a private university, it's a public private university. Here the government doesn't give maintenance rights to the board like the Corvinus, but the minister keeps them, so it's not like the Corvinus. All he gets here is real estate, he doesn't give up shares, so he's not like Corvinus. Here, the university has a contract to guarantee how the number of students will develop. In parentheses, I'd appreciate it if you were specifically included in how many scholarship students you're going to have. Maybe that's what Gergely Arató was talking about. That would be a good thing, because what really matters is how many scholarship students they hire, because that's what's important. If you put this in as an amendment, I would be particularly pleased. Apparently, this is not a model like Corvinus, but a new model, and for some reason we do not understand it and we know why six have been selected again. There will now be so many institutions in Hungarian higher education that it is difficult to follow: ecclesiastical, private, private, such as private, foundational, foundational, foreign, but it does not matter whether it is in the EEA or outside the EEA. I couldn't list them either, and I probably didn't list them all now. I would also think that it is less conceptual, but rather a transformation based on individual agreements, which is less fortunate in the long term for the development of a sector; I have now put it very euphemistically. In itself, starting in this direction in higher education, I do not think it is devilish. In fact, this type of model could be a good model, since it already contains a lot of guarantee elements that I have already referred to in part to this - which was left out at Corvinus. I was talking about founder's rights, I was talking about the contract, but there is what has already been mentioned by several people, that state aid for maintenance appears in a prominent way, that, for the long term, the university and the state agree on how the training should develop and that they will conclude a detailed financing agreement for three to five years. These are all good agreements, because they increase stability, long-term predictability. What I don't see in all of this system is how there's gonna be more money in a university like this. I'm glad that the universities get the real estate, and I think it would be good for all of them to have it, because it's possible to manage real estate locally, whether it's the building, land or any other real estate; I'm not a lawyer, maybe there's no other real estate. Only this presentation guarantees that the aid will not be reduced, because it is specifically stated that it is a guarantee that it will not be able to receive less in 22 than in 21. But just because he doesn't get less, because there's the property he's got to keep, doesn't mean he's gonna have more money in every case. In fact, if inflation is taken into account, he may have less money. The next such block, the fourth, which is interesting in this proposal, is the combination of certain carat organisation that is realized in higher education. I can absolutely agree with what many colleagues have already said that this is, in a sense, an intervention on the issue of academic autonomy. We have seen several times in recent years that Mr Palkovics is a very tough player in this by grouping arms and arms, that it is not the universities that want to do this. So far, they've been paying attention at least to the Senate and the faculty councils at the relevant universities. They didn't want it to be like they were pulling their teeth, but they were just giving out a statement of support, and then Mr Palkovics could stand up and say that they had asked for it. Now I don't have that either. That's the problem. I don't really see why it's good for an arm either in public or in the background, but you have to object to what appears in a bill because they don't want to. I'm sure there's some way we can talk about this with the people involved. It's a typical case for Georgikon. I don't know when, in 2016 or 2017, they wanted to regroup once, but then there was a protest and it didn't happen. It's coming out again. At first, the local Fidesz representative, Péter Ovádi, I hope to say his first name correctly, says that he will not vote for it and then submit an amendment, but does not say that this is taken out, but recommends that the BGE's Zalaegerszeg faculty should be transferred to the University of Pannonia as a quasi-reimbursement so that the number of students at the University of Pannonia is not reduced. Well, we're gonna measure what we're gonna group to, and we're gonna make it up to the University of Pannonia with the Zalaegerszeg faculty if he gets away from Georgik, so the Keszthely faculty? I'll tell you the truth, I don't understand. It's an idea that looks really good on how they reacted to all of this. I do not see the change of degrees in higher education in this, and this is the picture of it. [[Dr. Winner Vinnai: The committee has discussed it!]] I feel like this is a bit of a rush in this form. The example of the University of Kaposvár shows this very well. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I don't see it well, well, my time is up. The sign's smaller than the other room, and I can't read it anymore. I'll finish it in two minutes. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-08-135	Mr President, of course, you have the opportunity. For example, two-minute speeches will now take place, first of which will be Winner Vinnai, Fidesz.
u2020-04-08-136	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was moved to comment that Congresswoman Zita Gurmai said that there is no uniform concept. However, Mr Secretary of State said in his exposé that the change of degrees in higher education is slow to say that Szabolcs Szabó also understands it was ready for 2016. We discussed this at committee meetings, and the opposition praised it at these committee meetings. Now I hear that there is no uniform concept when it is clear that we want to adapt higher education to world processes or changes in the world along a well-thought-out strategy. It's actually an excellent material that can be relied on in the transformation right now. The other thing I would like to note is that it relates to teacher training. I've been teaching at the university for 30 years myself. The University of Nyíregyháza has very serious experience in teacher training. Of course, I need to keep an eye on how I expand teacher training and who is qualified as a teacher. [[16.50]] I therefore fully agree with the fact that the suitability of the profession must be applied in a different form. The importance of what is complexly interlinked, post-training training, competences and the acquisition of digital knowledge is also important, so we are in a new world, so I think this is very important. And for the lack of a teacher, I'd like to say that we need to make it more attractive, we're moving forward, but I'm sorry. I experienced that when Bologna was introduced, there was no possibility that as a teacher only part of the basic course went to MSc, couldn't move on, and there was a shortage of teachers; in 2013 we restored the undivided training. One more sentence on wages, Mr President, about what Lóránt Keresztes said: yes, we are partners [[The president's ringing the bell.]] To think about how to think about raising wages in the university sphere. There was a wage increase, but there might be more to it. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-08-137	Congressman Brenner Koloman, Jobbik!
u2020-04-08-138	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would only respond very briefly to the words of my fellow Member, Nacsa, on the one hand, that the membership of the Hungarian Accreditation Committee in 2014, if I am correct, was indeed suspended in the European organisation, and I was still an active university leader at that time, so I remember it precisely - because the Minister appointed the majority of the organisation, and then there were certain professor appointments for certain handball coaches, and so on. So I think I too see that there have been positive changes in the lives of the MAB in recent years, and I do not doubt that, but I had to note this for the sake of historical loyalty. And the other thing I would like to say is that I have been trying to cover all the details of this bill in my speech as a keynote speaker - that I would also like to confirm what many people have said here that I really agree with my fellow Member before me, because in my parliamentary virgin speech I also started in 2018 with the fact that, above all, it is important for me to pay as an assistant professor and assistant professor immediately, and obviously not overnight, obviously in the light of the country's performance, but as a sign of social respect, that this is the most important thing for me. When I said that we should all go to the market, then the Secretary of State of Rétvári almost jumped out of his skin, but it remains the same, so I think that there is a need for improvement here, and I am very pleased that the government is also a partner in this. And that's why I'm here for the reorganizations: I'm very glad that in the debate, a lot of people have stated the same thing as I have stated, that I'm putting Georgikon where I'm putting it, and I think that other types of games should be finished, because they're unworthy of the integrity of university leadership and especially of academic leadership, because they put colleagues in this position, whether they protest or not protesting. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] or the fidesz submit and so on. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-08-139	Thank you. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP!
u2020-04-08-140	Thank you very much. I also pressed a button when Mr. Crusader was talking about wages. I don't think there's any argument between us. Let us not deny what has happened so far - so if we look at the data, in 2010, in the last year of the Socialist budget, the guaranteed salary for the 1st step of the teaching position was HUF 437 300, on 1 January 2018 the same HUF 554 thousand, the wages of teachers and researchers increased by 27 percent in higher education since 2010. We have never said in any sector that it is enough that we have done what we had to do, that we have done it, that we have never said anywhere that we are where we want to be. Let's not deny the 27 percent wage increase that's happened so far. Of course, as my colleague Vinnai indicated, we are partners in this, and we believe it is important to continue with this. Let us acknowledge what has happened so far and then add our common will and our joint action to further action. I wanted to say two more things, which are more loosely related to the subject, only now has an actuality, and this is also related to wages, as engineers and researchers working in R &amp; D will now receive a 40% wage supplement as part of the extraordinary economic measures against the epidemic, as Minister Palkovics has announced. I think that this is also an important step, and we can see the way in which we are trying to address the economic impact of the crisis, and this partial measure reflects the impression of measures aimed at relaunching the economy. I would also like to say the other related measure, with which we will be able to issue 75,000 degrees, since now students or former students who have not received their degrees and who are now in a position to hold a mid-level degree are exempted from the requirement for a language examination. We believe that a graduate workforce will be needed to restart the country and the economy. That's all I wanted to say. We are, of course, in terms of wages, but let's acknowledge that. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] What's happened so far! Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-08-141	Congressman Szabolcs Szabó, independent!
u2020-04-08-142	Thank you very much. Because of the lack of time before, I could not really say that, in summing up this new maintenance model extended to six universities or higher education institutions, I myself would be able to fully support it if, say, the amendment that Brenner Koloman had tabled that would give certain rules on the composition of the curatorium, so, for example, the Rector would automatically be a member of the Board, and the rest, and so on. If we could go in a direction like this, it would be a very clear model of operation. What I do understand is that if I understand correctly that in the standing committees set up by the Senate, for example, what is also included in the proposal is the weight of the HÖKs being reduced, they should be boxed with them! As I understand it, it's a reduction in the standing committees. There's one thing I'd like to ask you, just so I can talk to you later. I would like to ask the Secretary of State that certain language requirements will be abolished by this year, this law will now be submitted as an amendment, or as a government decree, because... [[On the sign of József Bódis:]] Well, I'm not going to mention that about the law, if it doesn't get in here, it just wasn't clear. Good. And then, in relation to the words of Lőrinc Nacsa, I would just like to mention that wages have increased, that yes, just take into account inflation, so consider 40% of that professor's basic salary for a teaching assistant, and see how the net has changed since 2010 and how inflation has changed. In customer value, we get zero, practically. [[Nacsa Lawrence says no.]] But, it was such an inflation for a teacher's assistant's salary. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-08-143	Thank you very much. We will now return to the speeches of the Members who have asked for the normal word. Congressman László Pósán, Fidesz, please.
u2020-04-08-144	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to respond to some of the points, hoping that you might move the debate forward. There was a suggestion on several parts that affected the transformation. I would just like to note that, by the way, this is a next item on the agenda, so what Congresswoman Gurmai said that she is talking about two in one is not true, she was talking about a completely different item on the agenda, but, unfortunately, the door opened, if I may say so - and everyone was talking about it. So by the way, I would just like to note that, of course, no one has said that this is not a minor transformation, but it is also true that this is a very long-term transformation, and here I would not only refer to what Congressman Vinnai said that the Change of Grade document already states what direction Hungarian higher education should be moving into, but I would like to remind you that the same content can be read in the April 1999 issue of the Economics Review from the pen of Inzelt Annamária, which is quite old, of course, but shows that thinking in this respect is not new. Moholyn, as far as I know, the transformation process and these thinking and related changes started in 2013, and in 2018 a number of other universities related to Corvinus were formulated in the same way, and this was obviously a continuous discussion, negotiation, thinking, so this is an old history story. [[17.00]] The second point I would like to make is that of Lóránt Keresztes, and Brenner Koloman, who also raised the question of the number of students and of the teachers' students. Overall, in the case of student numbers, it is good to see not only demography, but what I think is much more important, is that due to quality education, the input scores that were, say, ten or twelve years ago, have become higher, and this has deterred some high school students from trying to apply for admission. In many places the so-called minimum score was once enough for input, and in many cases it was shown on the quality side. Here a slow shift has begun, fortunately. As for the number of teachers' students, Brenner Koloman said that we did nothing. I'd like to say yes, I do. It is not just scholarships, the Klebelsberg Scholarship, but also the fact that the percentage of applicants for the teacher's degree has increased significantly by restoring undivided teacher training. I would just like to remind you that even at ELTE's Faculty of Physics, a higher proportion of the number of students have applied for the teacher's undivided education than those who have applied for the Bologna-type BA, MA-dividable courses without teacher training, and these numbers can be searched back for in recent years, and this is reflected. It was said that Brenner Koloman said that he was pleased that the former three feet of funding would be restored. I'd like to tell you that there were three feet on paper, but there was no money. I remember very well when I had to send 500 people from the University of Debrecen in the period 2008-09. There was research money on paper, but there was no actual source. This was about the same as when universities introduced a number of universities to receive the title of research university, and there was no money for long, only the civilian government added it. So from this point of view, I didn't bring this up as an argument because it wasn't a good example that there was a label, but there was no money. I think it is much more important to have money and, more importantly, to have an international comparison, because from this point forward, the objectivity of the possible criteria is much wider, and from this point of view, I have to say again that László Keresztes mentioned that the government was heading in the wrong direction. In international rankings, in the international rankings of universities, Hungarian institutions can also be looked back to the country's size, economic performance and so on, but we do not have to be ashamed of the serial numbers on the normative lists, and let us admit with some modesty, but there is also a slow but continuous upward trend. I think we should welcome this, and if we were going in the wrong direction, we probably shouldn't be registering this. With regard to wages, I fully agree that there will be a need to act sooner or later. But let us also add that in this respect, I would also consider it important that what has already been started in a number of institutions be criteria that can treat institutional quality and performance in a differentiated way, because it probably doesn't take well anywhere if two university colleagues in the same position are two professors or one of two assistant professors is that much, and the other is three times as much. By the way, this can be traced back quite well in MTMT, and it seems that there is a very, very different performance behind the actual work of a university professor of the same rank, and I think that this is not right. A general wage increase would normally extend to everyone and would not take this aspect into account, and if this remains so, it will not facilitate the internal motivation of universities. Let us also add, as far as pay is concerned, this is a structural issue, if you like, we will not solve it in principle now, but at some point it will be worth thinking about - it is not the same in different countries within universities, let us simply call it who will be a professor and who will not be a professor. In the German system, a department, a professor, period. In Hungary, there is not only an example of German in our country, obviously in other countries, but also of what we have, and of what we have, and of what we do with a performance, it is not related to the university structure. The German sample is financially predictable, predictable, predictable, and can be planned, and the Hungarian and the countries in a similar situation always have a type of uncertainty that, for a given year, for the following year, and so on, where they can plan something like this, what the budget allows and what it does not allow. So from this point of view, Brenner Koloman is right that the budget allows or does not allow, it is indeed a key issue, but the question is, in many cases, how responsible the institutions are in this regard, and how much they do not. From this point of view, it must again be said that this is a thinking that leads to a field that we do not need to discuss now, but, of course, it is important, and somewhere it is good for us to have it in our head that, when we talk about such things, sooner or later, we may have to go to another field of thought in this regard. I don't know exactly whether it's current or not, but it's not part of the law, it's just good to know. I would like to point out that Zita Gurmai was misusing, that universities have no assets, that universities now have a kind of trust license over state assets. So that's an important difference, so what Zita Gurmai said from the point of view of who now wants to privatize me, that's just as stupid as it is, so I don't think there's a lot to start with. And that, and that, Mr Arató said, is that privatisation must be rejected, even in this logic. Mr Szabolcs Szabó rightly said that these are not literally private universities, but state property management foundations. Other design, but it is not privatization, so it is good to use the concepts correctly. And, of course, it should not be forgotten that all these changes are largely linked to the process that is already in place, and that is what universities call what and how they relate to the economic sphere, industry, services and so on. The fastest that happened was at Corvinus, it seems, but there are a number of institutions that remain state and state. There, too, we have these relationships, but they are much more difficult, administratively and legally, much more difficult, but they work, and they do, and they generate more and more own income for the institutions, which I think is a commendable thing. Thus, the transformations, the thinking about changing models, are trying to help make better use of these existing and potential market links, more effectively for the benefit of universities, training and research. So I trust that we speak only a common language in this regard, and I will conclude with what Brenner Koloman said, and I hope that he did so, that when we approve this amendment, it also means that they will support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-08-145	Thank you very much. László László Keresztes, Leader of the Group, LMP!
u2020-04-08-146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member has just spoken about how universities can relate to the economic sphere by example of Corvinus, and he has said that they are gaining more and more of their own revenue. There was also talk of predictability, planning and business perspective in relation to the Corvinus model. Corvinus was organized under a foundation last year, Zsolt Hernádi, the chairman of the foundation, and the foundation derives its revenues from the dividends of MOL and Richter's public stock portfolio. A decision made this morning by MOL's board of directors, I do not know, has been read by my fellow Members, that because of the oil price falling in, MOL's board is proposing that no dividends be paid this year. So last year's amount of 107 billion dollars paid as a dividend by MOL, with 13.5 billion coming from the Corvinus Foundation, is now written to zero. The question is how this meets the principle of predictability, and what will happen now to the most pathetic university of economics, what prospects the university has in this situation. The reasons for the bill submitted include a strong reference to the Corvinus model, and it seems that, in this particular specific situation, this fact is already being overthrown and that the funding of this type of Corvinus model of the government is being overthrown. So what happens to Corvinus University now? How can you make up for your income, how will your operation continue, and on this basis the government revalues this proposal? Thank you very much.
u2020-04-08-147	Congressman Brenner Koloman, Jobbik! [[17.10]]
u2020-04-08-148	Thank you for the floor. I would not go through the debate on the other item, because I see that many of my fellow Members have now moved in this direction. I would just like to respond briefly to what my fellow Member Pósan has said. I was not referring to a three-legged model of the period before 2010. That wasn't me. That was our fellow Member Harvester. I've indicated that Jobbik's election program included redirection of this. I'm sorry, I couldn't leave that on. So let's be clear for the record that I indicated that Jobbik's election programme included the introduction of new and appropriate funding for these three funding legs; one. Secondly, I would just like to say that I have also indicated in my keynote speakers, and I have indicated at the very beginning that there are two parts of this bill, and I could support the first part of it only as a reaction to my fellow Member Pósán, and I cannot support the unconventional transformation that does not take into account the interests of local academic leaders, so we will vote accordingly. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-08-149	Congressman Szabolcs Szabó, independent!
u2020-04-08-150	Thank you again for the floor. I'd like to make a few small comments. When the MOL stock issue came up here, and Lóránt Keresztes drew attention to it again, I heard Andrea Varga-Damm say that's what I was talking about. I remember that you and I were definitely the ones we talked about. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I told you about this!]] in the time that it really was, it was an unstable source. Then several of us asked him, I distinctly remember that we were pushing him - what would happen then, and of course I understood the logic of the legislator or the author of the law, the codificator, because it was included. I literally can't quote it, but in substance, there's about a section, a passage, that can be given to Corvinus on the basis of an individual agreement, not to lead to Corvinus, but to write about this foundational reservation. So the author of the law knew very well that it was an uncertain source, so he wrote in it that if there was no dividend, the state would put it in. That's not a stable reservation, is it? That's what we said. And how many years has it been? One? [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: none!]] And then it turns out that we were right when we said that this was not the way to stabilise the resources of such an institution. I don't like to say we told you, but I can't tell you anything else, that's exactly what happened. The other: several have already raised why we are talking about the six universities when it is a separate item on the agenda. I would just like to point out that in this law there is a taxative transfer to discuss the transformation of the six universities as the next item on the agenda. It's perfectly all right that we're talking about this right now, because we're discussing its elements. It's just a little technical comment, I don't want to talk about it anymore. László Pósán presented the university rankings, that the rankings of Hungarian universities have improved noticeably and that this is a good direction. It has not been a year since I asked the Assembly Information Service for their name, and I hope to say it correctly, this service is available in the parliamentary library - I asked them to put it together for me, how the positions of Hungarian universities in the university rankings have evolved in recent years, and this is presented to me in such a Central European context. I'm telling you, this stuff isn't a year old. The conclusion is that Hungarian universities are constantly sliding down. It's not me. It's the Congressional Information Service. But I think, by the way, if we were talking to Mr Fábri, who is a great expert at this ELTE, then I think he would say the same thing, but at some point he might want to be invited to the Cultural Committee to tell us as an expert what the reality of this is. There's one little thing I want to tell you. It has appeared several times in terms of wages that now there should be a wage that, if someone performs more, they will receive more wages. I don't think there's anything in the current wage structure that prevents you from divorcing the wages required by the law, because it doesn't give you the maximum wage, it does give you the minimum, and there are extra benefits, in which there really is a free hand for a maintenance worker, only if he doesn't have the money, he can't deviate because he can't get out of nowhere. I'd just like to remind you that not a year ago, on ELTE BTK and TTK, there have really been quite a few lost statuses, both of which have been lost to dozens due to wage shortages, and I can't put it any other way. There's no money. It's a trick to retire and all sorts of things, but in fact, they've all gone to dozens of them because of a lack of money. You can order that you work twice as much, and then you'll get double wages, or I don't know, but obviously you can't pay them out of nowhere. László Pósán is absolutely right in the fact that, by definition, there is an additional title of support that we put into the law if there is money behind it. I'll sign it. We've been through this so many times, it was something, and then it sounded so good, but there was no money involved. I couldn't agree more. But I don't think that's guaranteed. Once again, it only states that, for example, the six universities concerned must not have less support in 22 than in 2021. Overall, this does not guarantee that it will actually be more, in my reading, but I am glad that the Secretary of State will disprove me and say that there is a guarantee in it. I'd really like that, because I'm telling you, this direction in itself is not obnoxious to me, especially because it's not the Corvinus model, but it could be a model with a completely different logic and basically security features if some of the little things are fixed. Very briefly, that would have been all I could think of. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-08-151	Thank you very much. There are two-minute speeches coming up. Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea, Jobbik!
u2020-04-08-152	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I did not want to comment on this subject, because there are wonderful teachers and educational politicians here, but what my fellow Member Szabolcs Szabó spoke about now, and what my fellow Member Lóránt Keresztes said, Mr Secretary of State sat in the Chamber when we discussed Corvinus to become a foundation, and this share of Gideon Richter and MOL and then we said how we knew that Zsolt Hernádi lived forever. We are talking about two companies privatised in the 1990s, so it is not the property of the Hungarian state. How do we know that with the government at hand, those people who disperse over those companies will get along so well? How do we know that the economic situation does not bring about a crisis that both companies' profitability is falling down, or even if its profitability is not falling down, but in the global economic space, there are challenges ahead of them that they must reserve? And how do you know that? He can reserve from dividends if he doesn't want to raise capital, but certainly no shareholder will suddenly raise capital to fund a Corvinus University. So I would ask both the pro-government representatives and the secretary of state to interpret to the Prime Minister that what we have today may not be valid tomorrow. In both social and economic circumstances, we see that indefensible processes can rain on us, unpredictable processes can rain on us, and if both legislation and governance are not prepared to always incorporate security elements, and forgive us, Mr Secretary, it is not a security element that if companies do not have dividends, then the state will touch them, because of what it is now. What is it this time? Well, we're about to lose our budget, aren't we? So it has not been a year, Mr Secretary of State and fellow pro-government Members, when it has been proven that all the concepts that you have brought about have come to an end. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-08-153	Thank you very much. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP, two minutes.
u2020-04-08-154	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I pressed the button when László Keresztes Group leader told me what he had to say, and then Szabolcs Szabó answered the questions for me. That is exactly what it is really about to be, Mr. President, who also represents the role of the pro-government representative. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] - I wanted to tell you that, on the one hand, it's in the law that it's not the sole benefit. [[17.20]] So that MOL-paket, by the way, state stock market, honourable Member [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: How many percent?]] state stock market, 10-10 percent of the state stock market from MOL and Richter, Congresswoman, do not misrepresent. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] He also received property and real estate, which was also included in the law, which we discussed here a year ago, plus what the Member and the congresswoman said was in the law, that, by the way, state subsidies are, of course, possible if there is some kind of financing problem here. My fellow Members, be so fair to the government and to us that basically when we come up with a long-term financing model or we are dealing with economic policy, we are not planning a coronal virus epidemic a year ago or five years ago. You may have anticipated this, and now you're asking us to consider that you've already foreseen a coronal virus epidemic in the debate last year. My fellow Members, this overrides everything. It will override our employment efforts and these, and we will have to put even more effort into this work in order to take back unemployment, which we have already succeeded once together with the Hungarian people. Don't expect us to be told that a pandemic like this has come in, which will vomit all over the world economy, including, by the way, the Hungarian economy will suffer serious damage and will have to stand up from here! Of course, this is a force majeure situation. Predictable, stable operation, financing; do not use this as an example. If in normal economic years, apart from a pandemic, this model doesn't work one day, then come with your criticism. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-08-155	Please, there is a very interesting debate about the relationship between the coronal virus and human psychic ability. [[Defiance.]] This law is in no way an object, even though I read it and try to interpret it. I will, of course, give the floor to the other Members who will apply, but I am obliged from your mandate to put the debate back on its original subject. So let us try to debate the issue of Hungarian higher education, in particular, of the universities that have appeared. Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea, Jobbik, please.
u2020-04-08-156	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must say, Mr President, I am going to say this to you: there is no proposal in which what will be the most important aspect in the future is not what is going to be, because all proposals are going to be prepared next year, for an unpredictable future. We are not talking about a coronal virus epidemic, no matter what the circumstances, no matter what the difficult circumstances, especially the fact that we are a small country, we are a small economy compared to the global world, we have an exposure in the economic sphere absolutely, there is social polarization; unfortunately, I must say that the past ten years have also caused a very serious intellectual crisis in society. So when we talk about any bill [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What?]] And let's say we bring the security elements here as an important factor, then, whether you like it or not, we need to talk about it. My fellow Member, Lőrinc Nacsa, is a little young for that. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Is that a problem?]] I want you to know that I ask you nicely, a country's budget or any kind of commitment must always be planned according to the worst-case scenario. And I will tell one more story to my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, which he probably has never read before, but now it is time for this: that all of our legislation on disaster control and the CDC is written in it, that the budget must always design a framework for these, and that is to say, appropriate frameworks, i.e. massive frameworks, not pennies. I only brought this up now because when there is a problem, the functioning of a law, or the potential functioning of a law, according to your vision, every time something doesn't work out, they say, "Well, who could have expected this?" ! Yeah, yeah, yeah. Everything is to be expected. And if you wish for changes in higher education now, either in terms of this bill or in terms of the following, which is full of predictability factors, then do not defend yourself with the fact that who would have foreseen this, because the budget must always be planned in the way of a good hostess, the future ideas must always be based on the worst scenario, and then there would not be so many failures on the back of which, of course, they can always explain with their two-thirds majority and their media why it is not a failure, it is clear, because propaganda governance is taking place. But with great respect, I ask both the representative of the government and my fellow Members that this epidemic should bring you to a more modest approach, a more humble approach to governance, and then such suggestions, such debates, such feedbacks, such recollections, which are now at Corvinus, do not have to happen, and indeed we can say that you are doing this well, but at this moment we cannot say so yet. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-04-08-157	Definitely, believe me, I'm not a futurologist, but I saw it. That's what I saw! [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] [[Defiance.]] Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa will have the floor in two minutes, but I ask you very much not to respond to the comment made on his age (Development). Be glad that you are young, we wish you all the best (Rejoice.) But don't respond to that, because I'm gonna take the word off the table and it's gonna snap. (Faintness. ) Here you go.
u2020-04-08-158	Of course, I won't respond to that, then it's not merit, it's condition. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I would like to note two things concerning your comment on the budget: I did not see you in this year's budget debate last year's amendment that would have grouped 2000 billion, say, in an anti-pest economic protection fund or in favour of combating an epidemic. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] So, double planning. And, Congresswoman, I've seen one kind of amendment from you in Jobbik, about 200 of which would have taken away from the 580 billion National Security Fund and emergency reserve, from which we're now getting the tools we're saving lives from. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Not of that! Comms!]] [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Not of that! Comms!]] from which we have now financed the first line of defense you would have taken away (Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Not of that! Communicating! last year's budget. Just who plans to do the wrong thing and who would have spent them already: you would have spent this 580 billion forints on paper last July, and now Hungarian doctors and nurses are saving lives from it, and we are getting the protection tools from it. So we were the ones who were cautious, we had planned such a large, extraordinary reserve and a country protection fund for the budget, and you were the whole Jobbik faction who would have taken it from it in two hundred or so amendments for different purposes. So much for that, Congresswoman. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-08-159	Thank you very much. Tell me, would it be against you if I closed the debate? [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Very good. Then I'll ask you, because according to the house rules, I have to ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] We understand each other very well. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask the Secretary of State if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-04-08-160	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, First of all, I would like to thank you for the extremely active and, in the vast majority of cases, for the debate on the subject. I think it was a very serious question. But before I get to the answers to the questions that have been asked, I would like to mention two things in any case. One, and I apologize to the President for the need to refer to the virus situation, because an unforeseen event has disturbed our daily lives, which, by the way, has affected this programme. Many counted on the fact that this bill came here ad hocly, unplanned, not thoughtful, without concept. On the one hand, there was a reference to an earlier publication by an economist, and I would also like to say that it is not elegant to refer to something that concerns itself, but it will have to be. You all know that I was a rector for two cycles, and I worked at the Rector's Conference. Practically four years ago, at the Rector's Conference, we started to think about how we could bring about a change in the Hungarian higher education system, which is not an easy environment for public higher education institutions today, the environment in which they live and work, live and work. In particular, in a sphere that is expected to be renewed daily, is expected to point to the future, they expect scientific results from which innovation will appear in society, in the economy, and move it forward. [[17 .30]] Three years ago in January, so in January 2017, at Corvinus there was a scientific conference on higher education. As president of the Rector's Conference, I was asked to give a lecture. I gave the title of my lecture:. Possible points of departure in Hungarian higher education at XXI. At the beginning of the century. I'm not gonna burden you with any of that, but I'm gonna quote something that doesn't come from me. By the way, the material of that talk was published in the Reality one year later, in the 2018 2nd edition. The title of the whole discussion was about higher education, and the opinion on its publication was:. His brave ideas, which are almost daringly out of the present framework, may seem surprising only to us, but after a little reflection it becomes understandable why it would be useful, and why it should be so, let's call it a paradigm change. Some have already done so and have done so effectively. And all this was written by György Bazha, former Rector, president of the MAB. I would just like to point out that this thinking has been in higher education for a long time, including in the MRK. At the time when Corvinus was here, I wasn't sitting here, I wasn't in this room, I was sitting in the box, because at the time I was an EMMI State Secretary, and at the time Minister Palkovics brought the Corvinus Bill referral to Parliament. There was a reference to Corvinus in the material as well as in the expozem, but I would like to make a big difference and draw attention to it. The current proposal is similar to the Corvinus model as it is based on a foundational but completely different concept; in fact, it is based on a foundational but different funding background. By the way, Corvinus has turned up several times, and I don't think the university needs to be buried. The funding of Corvinus is on many feet. By the way, a significant number of students study there, they have revenues, they have other programmes that also generate revenue, and they also have other sources. Corvinus has a reserve for several years, so let us trust in such a temporary situation that this is a temporary crisis triggered by the virus and that it will have economic consequences without further delay. I think there is all the intellectual and infrastructural potential that has been able to handle this transition at the time. What difference does it make? I've already suggested it. So when we think about changing models, we want to create a legal environment for our universities where the basic functions can deliver the highest possible performance from the institutions. Basic function is obviously education, training, related to further training; basic function is scientific research, and it is now required not only to be basic research, but also employee research and innovation, and, if possible, product development and so on. The important part of the law, which is about three-legged funding, is because today we are specifically financing institutions on the basis of the number of students, although most institutions have other means of income. We consider it extremely important to have a maintenance leg, which is about institutional property maintenance, and I consider it even more important for me that scientific support, normative, whatever it is, should appear in funding. In this proposal, the institution's revenue, i.e. 20 percent of its revenue from education, is defined as the normative of scientific support, scientific foot. It would also be divided into two parts: one on the basis of the educational qualities of the institution, i.e. the number of scientific qualifications and the other, and the rest on the basis of normal scientific parameters. The other half, on the other hand, would come on the basis of the international rankings. It's not a numerical ranking, it's a percentage. I think it is a great virtue, and we can be proud of it; today there are 28 600 higher education institutions in the world, if we look at our higher education institutions, the first 10% is between 10-15. If you know the Gauss curve, you know that if you fall into 10 percent, one is the scrap, the bottom is 10 percent, but the top 10 percent is the elite. So 10-15 of our universities are regularly at the top 10 percent. It's not that bad. We believe that this second half of scientific funding or normative would be based on the percentage of scientific funding and would make significant differences for universities. By the way, our universities have worked for this reason, they deserve to be supported so that they do not have to account for it in the way that all other sources have to be accounted for, but instead use it to improve their place in the rankings and so on. By the way, ranking is a good thing, but it's not easy. As a rector, I've lived to see what we've done to move forward a little bit. By the way, the biggest step was when we doubled, and the number of foreign students tripled from 10 onwards, in which we are very behind. This is why it is important to appoint a university teacher, which would basically mean putting people who have reached university teaching position and rank in Hungary abroad. It's a very bad thing for all the universities. Each Hungarian university boasts a very low percentage, a percentage, that it has a foreign instructor, a high-ranking, prestigious foreign teacher. This is extremely important in this regard. I also have to answer some specific points. I think I answered a number of the questions raised in my introduction, but I didn't know if there were any unanswered questions. Performance assessment. I lived within a university that one arm or a few arms operated a brilliant system, where wages were not wages; wages were able to go to a completely different category than wages would have done. For example, in Pécs, the Faculty of Economics has been maintaining and operating brilliantly for at least ten years a benchmarking system that we have not been able to achieve in the other faculties. By the way, at worst, I was surprisingly on my own arm, in medical school, sorry. Somehow, this approach is more difficult to carry. [[17.40]] But if we can introduce the benchmarking system in our system, then this will be a generally applicable procedure, since the future support will depend on it, among other things. Reconciliations. Or I'll go back to the time I was in the system as an EMMI State Secretary for another sentence. Higher education was still a part of us, and we considered it important to develop a concept for a change of model, which is not for Corvinus University, but for all other universities, and it was all in agreement with the rector's conference circles, other professional circles, the topic of the last round table of higher education, so the subject was well known to everyone; the fact that we came here with a bill is natural because we had to take the next step. By the way, what was included in the bill in terms of model changes and the decisions of individual institutions was a pre-viral government decision, and that was when we got the start authorisation. It is pure coincidence and it is also related to the parliamentary programme when it came here. It's not a virus-related legislative proposal, we've been preparing for it for a long time, we just got here, we want to fight this battle successfully. No one wants to privatize universities, no direct or indirect intent. We would like them to be able to meet their basic function by getting rid of today's legal constraints, under other public procurement and other management conditions. In relation to individual faculty and institutional matters, we have to separate simple model changes in quotes from, I don't know, the case of the University of Győr or the University of Miskolc or the case of MOME, and separate the issue of agricultural higher education. In the case of agricultural higher education, since I've been around university leaders, there's been always thinking, there's been debates, and there's been a search for solutions. When this became more serious over a year ago, a team of experts met virtually monthly. By the way, one person on this team has been named, and I confirm: Professor Péter Horn, I think he is a respected and prestigious, excellent academic and agricultural professional, he was a member of this expert team. So when we put together the concept of agro-higher education, we worked on it, a much wider circle worked on it, and so Kaposvár was represented. No one wants to terminate the University of Kaposvár, the University of Kaposvár is a great value, that it was established 20 years ago, and by being able to become part of a large agricultural university, it does not move towards an end, but it has the opportunity to move towards a different dimension. Why? Because it's one thing that a small university is a big one, I could say that it's a network, but it's not a network, it's a larger agricultural university; it's going to have significant improvements. The programme of development they put together and others, I mean, the programme they put together by other actors, by university actors, will be a figure of 160 billion. This represents a developmental opportunity for Hungarian agricultural education, which was not before. What's the real contradiction? On the one hand, higher education in agriculture is not attractive, and the number of students, if we want to approach it in a very benign way, is stagnant, but there are other trends. Economics are completely unconventional, they cannot produce what is described as the 21st century. The expectations of the century. It is clearly necessary to go in two directions, on the one hand, along a serious concept, and this is the concept of the new agricultural university - and on the other hand, to involve the agricultural environment in practical, I would say, dual-type training, as we have modern agricultural economies. The problem is, we don't have the specialist supplies. This concept helps to attract young people interested in agriculture and to provide them with modern theoretical and practical training. Obviously, it also occurred to me that then, I don't know, the agricultural arm of the University of Debrecen or the agricultural arm of the University of Szeged should also go to the university. We didn't think it was right, basically we think that the flagship of Hungarian agricultural education is the University of St. Stephen. By the way, the university leaders of Kaposvár asked that that name remain, not because they want to blend in, and they really don't want to blend in. At their express request, merger as a legal technique was published in the bill. Technically, it would have been easier to merge, but it's not about simplicity, it's about dignity, the proper handling of cases. I believe that by making the University of Kaposvár an independent Kaposvár campus of this good name, and we trust that it will be an important part of a highly prestigious agricultural university, it will also add another dimension to its other training, so it will not only be agricultural training in this university with agricultural profile as the main profile. And in land affairs, the situation is very simple, and there can remain a trusting right in the course of change, because the land law does not allow anything else. [[Take a few seconds.]] I'm just looking at what it is...
u2020-04-08-161	You don't have to fill 30 minutes, there's no obligation to do that.
u2020-04-08-162	I won't, and I can see that I've arrived at my last piece of paper.
u2020-04-08-163	There's always hope. [[Defiance.]]
u2020-04-08-164	I wouldn't want to react to anything that's important, but I think I've answered all the important points, even if not personal. I would like to conclude my speech by saying that, yes, we are about to take the biggest step in a paradigm shift in higher education, otherwise we are doing it with caution, because it is possible to ask why this is so much now and why not all of them; because we are cautious. We didn't want to touch the great universities. I hope that universities that are given this opportunity or are able to take advantage of this opportunity will be able to set a positive example, to which those who are not yet in the right direction will also sign up. [[17.50]] Because, by the way, whatever system higher education works in, it's always about involving young people in order to prepare young people for a career, and if you do that right, higher education works well, if you don't do that right, it doesn't work well. We hope that the step we are about to take will lead the issue of Hungarian higher education in the right direction. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-08-165	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Now, in response to Mr. Secretary of State's request, we have a five-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] Dear Parliament, Following in a row, T/9921 on the Marek József Foundation, the Marek József Foundation and the University of Veterinary Medicine Proposal for a Law No.2 on the Universitas Miskolcinensis Foundation, the Universitas Miskolcinensis Foundation and the University of Miskolc T/9922. Bill No. No.2;, T/9923 on the Foundation for the Moholy-Nagy University of Arts, the Foundation for the Moholy-Nagy University of Arts and the T/9923 on the implementation of assets for the Moholy-Nagy University of Arts. Proposal for a Law No.2 of the Foundation for the University of Neumann, the Foundation for the University of Neumann and the T/9924. Bill No.2;. The T/9925 on the Foundation for Sopron University, the Foundation for Sopron University and the University of Sopron István Széchenyi University Foundation, István Széchenyi University Foundation and István Széchenyi University T/9926. The joint general debate on the legislative proposal No 1 until closure. Government referrals are available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, I give the floor to Professor József Bódis, Secretary of State, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State. [[18.00]]
u2020-04-08-166	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Today's Hungarian higher education has reached the limit of its development, with which marked further development can no longer be guaranteed effectively in the current operational order. The responsibility of the government is to support knowledge and creativity, which is a key to development and renewal, with an appropriate institutional background, a regulatory environment and financial guarantees. The primary objective of government measures is, of course, to promote the economic and social stability of the country as well as the well-being of Hungarian people, but it is equally important that it not only benefit the nation, but that it size itself in front of the world and perform a global value-creating task with innovative solutions. Dear Parliament, The Government of Hungary is committed to making the entire system of our higher education and all its actors, students, teachers and researchers interested in presenting the results that are as successful as possible, which will trigger recognition at international level. However, at least for a number of public universities, this is difficult to achieve within the current operating conditions and framework. As early as 2016, the government strategy titled "Training in higher education" defined the development of an optimal higher education system in both quantitative and qualitative terms as a directive. It drew attention to the need for higher education to adapt at the same time to economic and labour market needs, social expectations and research and development and innovation processes. It is therefore necessary to develop a more flexible and not merely a system that feeds on Community resources. Well-functioning higher education is a catalyst for economic development everywhere in the world, and Hungarian higher education institutions can only become a major factor in economic development if their training is adapted to the real labour market needs, i.e. if the knowledge required by society and the economy can be synchronized with the knowledge that can be acquired in the school bench. However, this requires involving businesses in the lives of universities, future employers, who are up-to-date with regard to international trends and are not sufferers but shapers of global economic processes. Therefore, rethinking state involvement in higher education has become inevitable. According to Werner von Siemens's apt wording, "It's not the great trick to run headlong against the wall, but to look for the door with your eyes." å The planned and implemented changes in institutional models can put new foundations for cooperation between the corporate sector and the higher education players, so that companies, as clients and funders, can act with expectations and resources and investment purposes for joint success. They should therefore be open to new models of funding, regulation and knowledge sharing. Dear Parliament, In order to increase international competitiveness, the government aims to provide six higher education institutions with greater individual room for manoeuvre and dynamic development in the same way as it did in the case of Corvinus University. The measure is justified by the fact that the 27 current state-owned higher education institutions perform their tasks according to the same standards of management, employment and operation, although each institution is prominent in other areas, so that the same rules and constraints prevent them from responding quickly enough to the challenges or to the market opportunities offered. The structural changes outlined in the bill aim to make the operating environment of higher education institutions more flexible, which also means that, in addition to greater autonomy, more responsibility and wider opportunities, we can expect more performance from them. By changing models, the institutions can adapt their organisational frameworks and human resources management to their specialities and competitive positions, but the state does not fully exit from the lives of the transition institutions, but becomes customers of higher education services, i.e. partners from maintenance to long-term framework contracts and shorter but multi-annual financing contracts guarantee cooperation. The State will therefore continue to play a strategic role in domestic higher education and will continue to be an active partner of the institutions through funding. [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] Dear Parliament, After presenting the purpose and justification of the university model change, allow me to address the essential elements of the operational model. In the case of these institutions, it is possible to terminate the status and role of state maintenance in a similar scenario. According to the plan contained in the proposal, the State transfers the maintenance rights of that institution to an open trust fund established by the State. After the maintenance change, the universities in question will become foundationally funded, public-use higher education institutions and, in all respects, become full successors to the universities before the maintenance change, i.e. full legal and organisational continuity, which will also apply to the status of students and the employment of employees. At present, university employees will work in employment under the Labour Code. The continuity of university work is in the least threatened by the change of model, while the institutions can move towards a better-adapted human resources policy. Similarly, the relationship between current university students is not affected by changes. All students can complete their studies in the form of funding and in the educational programme in which they began, and the National Higher Education Act continues to guarantee the survival of the broad student self-government in these institutions. With the change of model, university training does not become pay-per-view for everyone, education will continue to be available to the most talented people free of charge in the future, because the institutions will be visited by public scholarships and self-educated students in the same way as they have done so far. The autonomy of universities set out in the Fundamental Law will also be maintained and even completed, as the change of model will result in future professional and strategic decisions, as well as the resources assigned to them, the personal and material conditions, the definition and provision of infrastructure developments, based on the agreement of the maintenance foundation and the higher education institution. The state creates the starting conditions for the work, but later the foundation takes responsibility for the financial and strategic decisions, and the university takes responsibility for the success of science and teaching. Dear House, Allow me to present with one sentence the model change of the institutions, which is included in the proposal before you, and also the institutional objectives of the model change concept. The purpose of the University of Veterinary Medicine is to provide the XX. Reclaim its international reputation at the beginning of the 20th century and be reclaimed as one of the world's leading veterinary training institutions. It is planned that by using the most modern research methods, unique animal health discoveries and developments in the world will be possible, which will also produce market value. The University of Miskolc considers the more efficient and efficient operation of the scientific, innovation, art and training ecosystem that improves the socio-economic environment in the Borsod region and can also serve the demand for a medium- and long-term tertiary workforce in the steel industry and research related to the industry. István Széchenyi University of Győr aims to develop an entrepreneurial institution with an appropriate research, development, infrastructure and service portfolio to create an economic ecosystem of global importance. [[18.10]] With local businesses and university cooperation, the sustainable development of the technical, technological and innovation culture of the Western-Transdanubian automotive industry can be achieved, while the university is a multidisciplinary training ground for local society. The aim of the Moholy-Nagy University of Arts is to further strengthen as a centre of design and creative knowledge and to act as an institution capable of corporate, market cooperation in the future that can ensure the development and competitiveness of the Hungarian creative industry. By 2030, MOME intends to become Europe's dominant centre of progressive, creative education and research, which is competitive with the world's cutting-edge design universities. The Neumann János University of Kecskemét is also a regional knowledge centre and an innovation workshop, an integrated higher education institution with a complex role, which will continue to play a decisive role in the economic, social and educational systems of the city and the region. The aim of Sopron University is to build on its strong traditions, especially in the field of forest engineering and wood engineering, as well as in the field of environmental and climate protection research, to become the leading knowledge centre in the Central and Eastern European region. Dear Parliament, The difficulty and beauty of higher education policy is due to the need to examine and define measures from two perspectives. On the one hand, it must be taken into account that our institutional system operates within national frameworks, but the development of higher education and science itself is an international activity. This means competing with countries that have almost inexhaustible financial and personnel resources at their disposal. In order for higher education in Hungary to be able to gain a better position in the future, it is necessary to involve new partners and to change attitudes. To do so, we want to create the necessary framework with the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the Government in achieving its goals of improving the competitiveness of higher education. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-04-08-167	Thank you, Professor. Welcome back to my fellow Members. The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Winner Vinnai, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-04-08-168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The bill before us, more precisely six legislative proposals, is being discussed jointly in general and, as we have heard in the State Secretary's Expo, on the initiative of the university sphere, or I can say that this bill was submitted after bilateral or multilateral negotiations. What's the basis for this? So I would like to answer three questions. One is what founded the bill, why it is here now, the need to adopt the proposal and the content of the proposal. Let me say that Hungary's economic and financial stability has improved significantly since 2010, so we can devote more resources and more attention to the operation of our higher education system. While there are successes, as Mr Secretary of State has said, university education, research and innovation activities are in fact taking place in international competition, whose actors are changing according to virtually global social, political and economic trends. This is why universities, higher education institutions operating within national frameworks, need to be constantly renewed. The legislators are expected to establish a different regulatory and organisational framework in which the university sector can respond much better to developments in the world, whether it is about increasing international demand for training, the use of innovation or the need for corporate cooperation involving new resources. Ladies and gentlemen, More has been said in the debate on the previous bill on the subject of the change of career in higher education. Allow me to quote a few sentences from the point of view of this material, which points to how its competitiveness can increase, how its operation can change, how the organisational framework can change in a new model, because it is a model change, and at Corvinus University as a pilot program has already demonstrated that this model change is working. But we have also heard from the Secretary of State that it is not the same, that we do not want the same for the six universities as we did at the Corvinus University of Budapest, but it is similar, because there we have put the university work into operation of a public benefit foundation. Then I would like to say about the material "Training in Higher Education": how the purpose of the change of model was defined, how it was defined, and I say that in 2015 and 16 we discussed several times at the meeting of the Cultural Committee, oppositions, pro-governments, what is the essence of this change of model or paradigm, and the opposition also praised it several times. First, they said that there was no unified concept, and then we agreed together that there was a concept, and even a thoughtful strategy, along which this Corvinus pilot developed. I'd quote you on the material. The aim is to develop and position an effective and effective institutional system in the Carpathian Basin and in the European Union, adapted to the country's spatial structure. I'm adding that, of course, all over the world. It is worth redefining the business conditions of higher education and resolving public and institutional responsibilities. It is necessary to answer the fundamental question of who owns higher education and who is its buyer, its customer. The higher education strategy requires institutions to rely increasingly on their own revenues and external market resources in their core activities, education and research activities. So far, the quote. Let's see what the need for this bill is. According to the current bill, six more institutions will be able to continue to operate in a flexible framework to better exploit market opportunities and international cooperation. These institutions will have greater autonomy with regard to the definition of farming, human resources policy and strategic objectives, but they will also have greater responsibilities. Competition-based perspectives of development open up to them, which I hope for adaptation, change of perspective, bold innovations for the benefit of all of us - requires performance and cooperation from the universities in question. State involvement in parallel with this step is also being put on a new footing, since from a maintainer, as Mr State Secretary said, he will become a partner and a client. Dear House, The overall aim of the model change is to ensure that universities, as an engine for local social life, intellectual education and economic development, are flexible in responding to needs and provide a background for training, research, innovation, art and sport and cultural services for the competitiveness of each region and ultimately the country. Model change is needed in order to enable universities to fulfil their own quality expectations and to provide a rapid, flexible and efficient task in line with the requirements of the social, cultural, market and knowledge environments. I don't want to repeat it for all six universities, because Mr. Secretary of State said that, let's say, regarding the University of Veterinary Medicine, the University of Széchenyi, what is the idea, the scenario is similar, the management of trust funds, real estate and property. For example, the Moholy-Nagy University of Art is a property, and the Széchenyi István University is 58, these two extreme values are 1-58, and the others are in between. [[18.20]] Basically, basic activities, education, science, researchers, students, students, teachers, researchers, teachers support programmes, talent management, support based on need. So these conditions remain, in practice, a flexible new organisational framework will be created that will improve the competitiveness of these universities and, if our universities work better, the country's competitiveness will also be improved. The educated people can contribute to the country's economic and social development speeding up, and all of this will benefit us all, the Hungarian nation. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-08-169	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Brenner Koloman, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-04-08-170	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Professor, Dear Secretary of State, I'm afraid of the Greeks, even if they bring gifts. I believe that this classic quote is what I must first say in the debate on this draft law here in front of this House. Just because the arguments I have heard from my fellow Members here, which I have also heard from them, with the form of foundation which is now awaiting the universities listed in the draft law, according to the government's intentions, may not be in line with what the Secretary of State's exposé has shown. Because I will give you very specific examples, and Mr Rector, as a former university leader, knows this very well. What's wrong with public procurement? The problem with public procurement is that, indeed, as Mr Secretary of State has said, we are trying to manage this in almost a uniform structure at 25 State universities. Is that the only way to do that is to turn the university into a foundation? No, in a noble simplicity, as Jobbik has suggested many years ago, universities must be removed from the scope of the Public Procurement Act, the problem is solved, and we do not have to, say, buy matches in an ELTE-sized institution, and because we buy matches at a university level, we will immediately exceed the public procurement limit and then print out public procurement for match purchases. So one of these arguments, which they say a lot, I don't think depends on the form, depends on the form of foundation. The same applies to wages, Mr. Secretary of State, because I was also at a higher education conference where rector gave a presentation on behalf of the Rector's Conference on the need to immediately increase the 1st salary of university teachers to HUF 850 000 gross salary in order to achieve something in our country with scientific reinforcements. That was years ago, and we haven't been here since, if I remember the actual numbers. So I think that it doesn't depend on the fact that a university is run in a foundation or a state university, but it depends on how much funding universities receive. And obviously, in a structure of government, say, where higher education was previously in the EMMI in such a large Moloch, where around every area that the Prime Minister doesn't care about and costs money in his eyes - and now in the Ministry of the ITM, higher education is obviously not in its place. For a very long time, the Jobbik National People's Party has demanded that education, including the university world, be supervised by an independent Ministry of Education, as this is the only way to ensure that the entire education system, which can only be treated in unity with a holistic approach, is indeed at the heart of government decisions. The next question that justifies this introduction to me is the pattern of Corvinus. I agree that this arrangement is different and better than the maintenance of the Corvinus Foundation, but I would also like to remind you, as the rapporteur of the Council of Europe for university autonomy and academic freedom, that, for example, the head of the Corvinus Trade Union, in June last year, without consulting the Senate, adopted the university's organisational and operational regulations on Corvinus by the Board of Trustees, and the new president of the university was appointed without the university's academic leadership being able to comment on this. This is, in my opinion, a serious restriction on academic autonomy and academic freedom. To be precise, it reduces the participation of academic elected leaders in decision-making, I think that is precisely the wording, Mr. Secretary of State. So if we accept that this is a positive step forward from the Corvinus model, and I accept that, then we should look after Corvinus because we can see that there the role of the academic leader is constantly being repressed in making decisions. I don't think that's good. It is not good, because, in fact, by meeting the need for a real labour market for universities, I quote exactly, Mr Secretary of State, that is a very interesting task, honourable Members, because if anyone can tell me in the year 2020 that in the year 2020 of the Lord what the labour market needs and jobs will be in the next eight years, they will be driven by an internal combustion engine in Hungary, I congratulate them. 'Cause no one can say that right now thanks to the accelerated development in quotes. So I think that the reference to the real labour market may sound good for the wider public, but anyone who knows the university world a little bit too closely knows that this does not mean anything in particular. This means that right now, when we define the structure of a major, we have no idea what position the first finished will get in eight years' time, and the bounty hunter companies are just saying that he knows languages, he can cooperate in a group, and he is the 21st. Let our students acquire the skills of the century. This is about what the labour market expects, not underestimating any professional training, which is really training for a narrow profession, such as, say, dental training. So I think that it would be very, very justified, and I would ask my fellow members of the Party of Government to accept the amendments I tabled, and I would also respectfully ask the Secretary of State, which, in order to prevent the academic leadership from making decisions, would include the university leaders as members of the Board of Governors. I have tabled an amendment to this. So, with respect, I would ask you to accept this, and then the fear of the Greeks would disperse a little bit from me, and I might be able to support these transformations in some cases, because here I am talking about different universities, and there are different situations. So I don't really understand the uniform method of treatment here either, since we're already in need of a foundation to move universities into a form of foundation. After all, as you rightly said, there is a completely different situation for a University of Miskolc in a Borsod region with the situation in the labour market there, citing unemployment, or, let's say, the University of Széchenyi built up during the blessed activity of the Audi, which has indeed had a major regional role, thanks to the good Lord. I also think it is quite clear that, let's say, at a university with relatively narrow professional training such as MOME or even veterinary university, most veterinarians will operate on a market basis later - where I can accept the foundation form at these universities, because it is quite normal for a university with such a relatively narrow professional engraving to have a much more flexible form of foundation. By the way, as I mentioned, I also wrote a letter to the rectors and deans concerned, and this proved that in the case of MOME, for example, they have actually asked for it from themselves since 2013, and so on and so on. But let's not unite this into all of them, because that's why there were institutions here who didn't see it that way. [[18.30]] The University of Sopron to me, as president of Jobbik Sopron, and once an instructor of this university, of course, is my concern. It was an environmental knowledge centre, and it was a classic forestry university once, and to take Sopron University, I specifically support and welcome it. The fact that the form of foundation would be better than a university that would remain a state reserve, but could finally be built as a regional centre, could finally have an international glow, since it is on the Austrian border, and there are many other reasons why this has not happened before, and I do not want to go into it here, is a completely different page in my eyes. So I, for example, do not see very much the specific benefits of the surrounding region for the University of Sopron. By the way, region: here I refer back to my opinion already in part on the previous item on the subject that the structure of higher education and the institutional system should be considered on a regional basis. In my view, the important thing is not that there is a form of foundation or a state university, but I think it would be important for the Hungarian State to decide regionally that universities of major importance for a given region should be given state support, while a private university obviously not only has some positive effects in a given region, but also a business enterprise with a completely different philosophy. I think that in our higher education development structure, in changing degrees, this should be taken into account much more closely, and that should be split apart, and not give such general justifications when presenting such a law, in our opinion. In summary, if you are already taking over the form of foundation in the management of these universities, then you should also take over the management protocol and not let the minister appoint everyone to the board of directors, because that means that the minister will determine in one person what happens at that university. On the contrary, I ask you to accept my amendments, which bring the elected academic leaders back into strategic decisions, because without this, there is no way to talk about university autonomy in our opinion. If you can support these amendments, we support these proposals. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-08-171	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group.
u2020-04-08-172	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In 2010, the national government, the Fidesz-KDNP government, inherited indebted universities, huge levels of unemployment and hopeless youth as a result of the policy of convergence of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments based on continuous austerity. Thanks to the performance of the Hungarian economy in the last decade, thanks to Hungarian people, Hungarian companies, Hungarian employees, employers and the Hungarian government, the performance of the Hungarian economy has increased, and more resources and more attention have been paid to the Hungarian higher education system. The debt of higher education institutions has decreased and the budget for funding higher education institutions has increased steadily. The rapid shift in the global economy in recent years, the new digital industrial revolution ahead of us, has proved that the current academic framework must also adapt to changing global trends. It has been proven that the current regulatory and organisational institutional system is more difficult to respond to global processes, whether the need to increase international demand for training, to make innovations more accessible or to involve new sources of corporate cooperation. Thus, the Hungarian government first chose the Corvinus University of Budapest, and then the National Assembly accepted this in order to set up a new institutional operating model there, which was put into operation by a public benefit foundation. According to the current bill, six more institutions will be given the opportunity to continue operating in a much more flexible framework to better exploit market opportunities and international cooperation. These institutions will have greater autonomy as regards the definition of farming, human resources policy and strategic objectives. Here I would refer to Brenner Koloman's statements on academic freedom. So they will have greater autonomy in terms of management, human resources policy and science strategy goals, but, of course, they will also have greater responsibility; it is also important to note that greater autonomy entails greater responsibility. Instead of providing them with safe, but limited, competitive perspectives will open up to them, which will require adaptation, change of perspective, bold innovations and, in any case, performance and cooperation skills from the six universities in question and the ones in the proposal. At the same time, State involvement will also be put on a new footing, as it will become a partner and a customer from the state. I think it is very important to highlight this relationship difference that the state, the Ministry, can act as a customer and not as a maintainer, but as a partner. I think this is where the essence of this change of approach or change of model can be felt. At the same time, the social responsibility for the Hungarian elite, the teaching and the scientific community is not reduced in the state, because the value-creating work of universities on their own will be used in the interests of the Hungarian nation and mostly in Hungary. I think it is very important to say, as my colleagues have already said, that this is not the same model that has already been introduced at Corvinus University. I think the most important difference is that these six institutions are not separated from the state, the state continues to play a strategic and active role in higher education, but, in the future, the state will act as a participant in ordering the services of universities. Thus, these universities are excluded from the direct state-owned institutions, and the infrastructure necessary for the provision of tasks, and movable and immovable property, are transferred to their own property. I think that we need to give room for institutions to manage much more effectively and to rely increasingly on their own income. Obviously, there will also be public procurement facilitations for the most efficient operation, and the issue of pay has been discussed in this debate and in the previous debate as a matter of particular importance. This new framework, ladies and gentlemen, will also open up opportunities for performance-based differentiated remuneration. So what you're worried about is that a window like this is going to open right here, and it's going to be an opportunity to introduce performance-based, differentiated remuneration. We can obviously agree that this will be a motivating force, i.e. it will clearly contribute to a more efficient, competitive and effective functioning of universities. I think that all universities, all higher education institutions, but also the institutions here, have a social role. There is a social requirement that these institutions not only function as educational factories or diploma factories, but also where they are, participate in the lives of local communities. Here we talked about Sopron, Kaposvár and several settlements. These institutions are involved in the life of the local community and can be the centers for the strengthening of educated people and citizenship in these regions, in these regions. So I think that the current model change can be a useful and effective model change, forcing universities to cooperate with market participants, introducing a new system that will enable them to operate more efficiently and effectively. Although different from Corvinus, a model with obvious similarities can be effective. We also expect international progress from this transformation. I would like to highlight more international partnerships, including guest educators, the expansion of exchanges and corporate relations. The KDNP fraction supports the bill. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-08-173	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, notary.
u2020-04-08-174	Thank you very much. Dear House, In fact, we are now in a repeat debate, since these proposals are also linked to the amendment of the Higher Education Act that was discussed earlier. Perhaps it would have been luckier, but it was not our decision - if we had also discussed the rules for each institution and the general rules. [[18.40]] Let me start with the schedule. However, if Hungarian higher education were, on the one hand, the country of the smile that Congressman Nacsa so enthusiastically spoke about here, and it would be such a great situation, then there would probably not be more than one minister responsible for higher education in the multi-level governance structure, then we would not be discussing the countless many models, concepts and legislative proposals here during the ten years, then we should not have to change the decisions made earlier, and I say in silence: that if that were the case, then we would not be discussing this bill at the time of the coronal virus epidemic, and would be the last item on the agenda at this pleasant late afternoon or evening. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman:]] We know your political sense from this point of view, and obviously this is being brought in because I understand what the Secretary of State is saying, that there is a long-standing work here, but let's be honest, this proposal could have been introduced immediately at the beginning of the parliamentary session, and it would have obviously been possible to wait until the end of the epidemic, and a substantive social debate and perhaps a more colourful political debate could have come together. But I get it. I just don't agree with him that the intention to accept this bill in the dark, when the country is concerned about where to go at Easter and where to go, or is he concerned about how many diseases and how many victims there will be, is it obviously easier to bring to Parliament legislative proposals that are, how should I put it mildly? they do not enjoy broad support and enthusiasm, and to which the fundamental question, I must say, has not been answered here in the parliamentary debate. Because I understand what they're saying, and there shouldn't be any misunderstanding, I said 20 years ago, and I'm saying now that if we want a more flexible higher education system, it's very right; if we want fewer state regulators to put together the autonomy of universities, it's very right. If we want universities to have the opportunity to farm their wealth, it is very right; if they want universities to work better together with the business sphere, and I add, although Congressman Nacsa has spoken about it now, and I agree with the surrounding society that it has legal forms and opportunities, I would say that it is very right, I would add: we said that even when it was a curse word to you, and they considered all this type of action to destroy higher education. But you don't have to privatize universities. Make a good state operating model. Let the state function as a good maintainer. Give me back the university autonomy. If the state wants the universities to be more independent, then don't turn them into foundations, just call off the chancellors and restore the academic leadership. Then make some rules that the universities can manage. Because in order to have more flexible public procurement rules, it is not necessary to remove these universities from the public sector that requires good public procurement rules. I would like to add that I am very concerned about the exemption from public procurement rules with regard to Mr Brenner Koloman, because in a well-functioning country there are rules on public procurement to ensure that public expenditure is rational, and when you remove something from public procurement, my concern is that you already know who needs to win a good one, this also happens in public procurement, no doubt. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: That's right, it won't stop you.]] But once again, if these rules are rigid, then make legislation, but not just for individual institutions, for all institutions! Restore university autonomy. Make it possible for universities to find the path on which they want to develop themselves, because the problem is that now there are equal solutions again. They made a model of Corvinus, then Minister Palkovics said that this model would be the model, and then, according to this, this model was not as perfect as it seemed at the time, they are now making a model number two, again with uniform rules, while we argued at the same time, and I just want to confirm that we know that there is an institution that wants to have quasi-market conditions like Corvinus there, of course, that it is in the interest of the students, or it is only for the institution, that these two do not necessarily coincide - but at the same time the situation of rural institutions is completely different, and the situation of the veterinary university is different, where I can say the same thing... The Secretary of State says that because the vet school is gonna be great, it's gonna be great, it's gonna be great, it's gonna get its old light back, I think it's still an excellent institution with a lot of foreign students, but if that's what we want it to be, is it really gonna have to be run by a foundation from now on? Isn't it possible that he should be able to run the university with a greater autonomy to achieve results? I might even add that if there were a concept of higher education development that has priorities, and suppose that this is a priority I do not want to make a decision on right now, I just say that this could be possible, then perhaps the state should provide resources. Don't give funds to a foundation, your own universities, to develop and operate. It's the same with wages. We all agree about that, and we will say for sure, Mr Nacsa, that it is much better now than it used to be, and then I will tell you how much it has increased then, and that there is inflation in the world and real wage growth in the economy, and I do not want to have this debate very much, but I just want to say that we all obviously think that there is still room for development in terms of university salaries or higher education salaries, let us put it this way. We agree on that. It would really be better if there were better salaries, competitive pay, we know that in the area of higher education, it is a very significant factor determining quality, if not the most important. Now, what's stopping the state from giving this resource to the universities if there's a source? And the universities will decide. Mr. Rector, I'm sorry, the Secretary of State has spoken about the great differences between arms and arms and institutions. I'm saying that there should be university autonomy, not foundational reservations, and that there should be a well-functioning state reserve. Return the possibility for universities to decide for themselves, for example, on wages, and add that it provides resources, because universities do not pay better wages because of the civil servant system, I think that there is no university that wants to reduce the salary of its colleagues and then at the end I refer to the fact that, of course, there may be a situation, but there is no university that wants to reduce the salary of its own colleagues. They don't have the resources to give us more money. Here, the state must not give up the reservation, but give back autonomy to universities and give them resources, and give them money. In conclusion, what I would like to say in this section is that we think it is good that the government wants to relax the framework of university operation, the state's determination, it is good that it wants to make it more flexible, it is good that it wants to give more economic opportunities and autonomy to the university, but it is not a good tool, but the instrument is extremely flawed, because it does not really do it to give more autonomy, but it does it to reduce autonomy, because it creates a board that can now make decisions without any restrictions and without any responsibility for the public bodies, but at the same time it is appointed by the state. The Minister has the power, but the responsibility is not his. Then when we interpel the Minister here, although of course the Secretary of State will respond and will talk about what was before 2010, but if you would like to answer... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's another ministry!]] I'm sorry, it's another ministry, sorry, it's not Rétvári, it's Schanda Tamás State Secretary, I'm sorry, I'm confused, I've forgotten, I've already been reorganized so much that I've lost track too, so, of course, Secretary of State Schanda Tamás will talk about how everyone died before 2010 and otherwise the grass didn't grow in Hungary, but if he didn't answer the question by accident, he would easily say that he didn't decide, well, it's a curatorium, the board decided. The state therefore shakes off its responsibilities, but does not give autonomy to the university, but introduces a politically appointed body, which, if necessary, does the dirty work if there is an order for it. This cannot be supported, this cannot be agreed, and we believe that this poses a serious risk to the functioning of higher education, does not benefit quality and does not benefit the interests of students. Agro-higher education has already been dealt with enough, and I would just like to say two things as a silent remark. Of course, we will all be able to say great, excellent scientists and university people who support this idea or that idea in agricultural higher education. Obviously, every university leader likes that if his institution grows, he obviously has many supporters to make Szent István University a great institution now, which, if not from Battonya to Nemesbearves, but from Gödöllő to Kaposvár and Keszthely, sorry, from Gyöngyös to Keszthely and Kaposvár. However, it also belongs to the truth that on such matters it is not possible to decide on the basis that, by the way, one university management says that it would be much better to be independent, and the other says that it would be much better to be united. I do not claim that, in this respect, the previous decisions were impeccable, from this point of view, to be honest, I can almost say that I do not want to entertain this House with a higher education story here. Let's just say that there was a lot of trouble making integration and separation decisions in higher education already in the '70s, and that hasn't changed in the last fifty years, no matter what color governments there are. [[18.50]] But it is the case, and I would like to stress that we do not see those clear models, the clear way of operation, the studies, the reconciliations that would have said that this model is clear that somewhere around St. Stephen's University, there is no debate in this, but for example, another possible model would have allowed St. Stephen's University to develop significantly within the current framework. Even there, a switch to some kind of market operation would have been considered and left in its current form the institutions that are now attached to it. It could have been a lot more, I really don't want to get into it here, who know the story of it, you know that practically every year, there were three concepts that combined and dismantled these institutions, but that can't be decided on the basis of who has a stronger lobby than the government. This should finally be decided on a fair, scientific, professional basis, in a well-founded manner, supported by calculations and arguments, and should be devoted to the non-five-minute, non-ten-minute, non-two-month process as these matters can be discussed with the institutions concerned. I daresay that didn't happen. Everyone knew there was a model, everyone protested, there was no agreement. It's just a technical matter, but I just want to show you how integration is going to take place now. How will this be carried out and negotiated practically? There are relatively close deadlines here. Let's not be wrong, the nine months left are a very close time to complete such a process, so that we don't know when the online mode of operation will end, when we can meet, I don't want to go into it, there's a lot of things that can't be accessed, and so on, materials for preparation. So we continue to see this as a decision that is not certain that it is a bad decision, I must add, I do not say that, I say that it is not sufficiently founded, and it is not clear to the institutions concerned what their future is. Let me add one more professional point. It is also a big issue, a serious strategic issue of higher education, that it is worth moving towards specialised, narrow-profile universities, or rather towards interdisciplinary, wider-profile universities. By the way, there are many examples in the world, and there are also examples of a mixed system. As I understand it, the government now advocates that they should be almost fully specialised, whether they are large institutions, and St. Stephen will be like this, and at the same time the major universities should remain with regional tasks. But this is once again a case in which, for example, there are many arguments that agricultural arms may have a better place within a wider university community than with other agricultural arms. Thank you very much. That's all I wanted to say. All in all, I can therefore say that what the government has put before us is exciting as a debate material, this concept, a mature concept, an acceptable proposal, cannot be considered a sound decision, and therefore we will not be able to support it. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-08-175	Thank you, Congressman. This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm in a normal time frame.
u2020-04-08-176	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, After the professional and political arguments in front of me have been listed by opposition representatives, and I would not take the liberty, not as a policy politician for education, of speaking to this package of proposals in this respect, but specifically from a legal and political point of view, not from a policy point of view, but from a political point of view. These proposals include that the Government is called upon by Parliament to establish public foundations and to continue these universities in practice through these public foundations. In these six proposals, Parliament decides for the government that after the establishment the minister should appoint the curators. This proposal specifies that the foundations, which will then be established, should be transferred to its property all the assets, both real estate and movable property used by the university for its operation. I'd like to start with the financial questions first. Given that in this package of proposals it is not apparent that the operation of these foundations is indeed divorcing the financing of the state budget, a completely different concept than the Corvinus University was, and I believe that today it makes the operation and operation of the foundation much, much more difficult by the fact that it is already handing over the state's assets to the foundations. It is a very long used and proven method that, when an organisation is set up by the State, it operates in an institutional system independent of the State's organisation, and the State's assets are no longer treated as property by that entity but by a property management contract. In this case, since there is no separation from the state budget at all in the funding of these universities, and it immediately imposes a huge burden on universities, i.e. on foundations, for which they do not even have resources, equipment and staff, I think that if the government wanted to run these universities in the future in a foundational way, I would certainly have done it in two steps. First, let us consider that, in the course of its operation, it is able to manage itself as an owner, and then, if it can be seen that the financing is stable, and that it begins to get somewhat separated from the state budget, i.e. it can raise funds on market funds and cope with ownership management, then this could have been done later. I find it extremely early and very dangerous. Of course, in the previous proposal, it was said in the House by the opposition representative that, in fact, this wealth can be abused from now on. You are right about that, because the board of trustees of the foundation decides everything, the state has a say in that it is founder, but the representative of the Hungarian state can't take decisions in the management of assets from now on. So it is true that this wealth can be treated in a way that leaves the interests of the foundation to part of the wealth or wealth. The other important element is the question of curators. It is fundamentally lacking in this proposal that the Minister appoints members of the Board of Governors for a fixed or indefinite period. This is important, because if the Parliament authorised the government or called on the government to establish foundations, public foundations, and also states that the minister appoints the members of the Board of Governors, and even elects the President, then the minimum expectation would have been that this proposal would also include a definite or indefinite term. Anyone who is not so familiar with law, in particular the law of social organisations or civil society organisations, does not know why this is such an important issue. This is such an important question because it may sound strange to many of them, the curator of the foundation in Hungary cannot be recalled. Indeed, there is a possibility in the legislation that a member of the board may be recalled if his activities specifically jeopardise the achievement of the aims of the Foundation, which is impossible to prove in Hungary. There has never been one in the legal proceedings of the foundations to recall a curator on such grounds without the death or resignation of the curator. If appointed indefinitely, because the Minister will have the right to do so from now on, there will be an extraordinary serious and difficult situation, given that the number of members of the Board of Foundations is not defined as a maximum by the law, there is some reference as a minimum to the three, but there is also an exception to this, it can also be a one-man board. [[19.00]] We know that, and I don't want to offend anyone, but what is visible in the world of Fidesz is that even highly knowledgeable and prestigious professionals often see political loyalty in the first place and the representation of professional credibility in the second place. The people present are, of course, always exceptions. Usually this is manifested by not saying no, but refraining from manifesting, but we know that those who remain silent are often involved in sin. This is important because, in the event that a political change is ever possible in a democracy, and, let's say, curators do not come on a professional basis and not from a specific position, but they are simply appointed for an indefinite period of time, and let's say, a new government would like to change a concept without violating university autonomy, some kind of educational mechanism or system-type change, and let's say, curators appointed by the Minister of the previous government resist, the founder, the representative of the state, have no other way than to upload additional curators to the Board, because they have the right to delegate additional members, and therefore up to 15-20 members of the board, so that they may be able to make justified changes and not hinder the implementation of this change. It is extremely unpleasant that if these curators are appointed for an indefinite period of time, they can either play to their death or be filled with additional members by a new government. One more very important aspect, and this is that, in addition to the lack of indecisive and decisive expression, I may, of course, be a little lost in the field of education policy, but perhaps not, because I say that in the event of such a major change, as my fellow Member has said, in these curators, the people who will operate the university, or those who are involved in university funding, let us say, on the part of the government, or the person representing student rights, or representing student interests, should be included in it. So, for example, I would expect, and this must be regulated at a legal level, there is no way to get away with it, not only in the proposal that the Minister appoints any number, because the number of curators is not even written in the proposal. I don't think, by the way, that in such a case, the minister will decide for himself how many curators he will be, and by the way, what professional or social circle they come from. This proposal shall include indeterminate or definite time, the number of board members and the members of the Board of Directors who are who, the current President, the current Chancellor, the head of the respective student council, the head of the current teaching organisation, the delegation of the Ministry of Finance or Support. So these positions should be defined. And do you know why it has to be determined? Because if, for example, you say just one example, that the head of the current educational representation is a member of the Board of Governors, then I have already set a definite time limit, even though I have not defined a time interval, because that means that that person will occupy his membership of the Board as long as he holds the position that I have prescribed in the rule system. Thus, even if he had not said the definite time, he had already determined the firmness of the person by indicating the position. So with all due respect, if the government is insisting on this kind of new organizational system at universities, please make it possible to submit a proposal that does not make the present or the future difficult to run these foundations. I know that perhaps in this ministry you did not pay such attention to the legal conditions which could make the operation of these foundations difficult, so I ask with great respect Mr Secretary of State to interpret these points to decision-makers and co-difficators, because in this form the operation of these foundations will generate a great deal of difficulties and more debate. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-04-08-177	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'm asking if anyone would like to comment on the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see a candidate, so the joint general debate is closed. I'll give you the opportunity to answer Professor, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-08-178	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In fact, Congressman Brenner's speech moved me to the next thought. Back in the day, teaching Latin meant more than teaching a language, it also transmitted a culture, a kind of message to today that should be considered. It was like this, I don't know, the, the Cogito ergo sum, the, Historia est magistra vitae, but such was the, Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes, with which he began his speech. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: It was worth it to come in today, Mr. Secretary of State. Defiance.]] You want me to stop, is that for the best? [[Defiance.]] That's not what I'm getting at, but you're starting a thought. There are also many very wise Latin proverbs, such as. * Repetitio est mater studioum. I think that more has come up in the debate on the previous bill, and in my final speech I covered a number of things, but I still need to come back to a few things, not because I want to repeat them, but because it is important. I think it's important to understand how he deviates from Corvinus. The foundations to be set up now receive maintenance rights, the establishment and appointment of the board is an important aspect, and what has been said here is very important advice, so I take it not as criticism, but as advice, and I will obviously convey it. But if we assume that maintenance rights are exercised by the board of trustees, and we take this seriously, then it can be a conflict of interest if the rector is a member of the board of trustees. So while the proposal is logical, and I think it could be some kind of good autonomy control, I'm not a lawyer, so it's always wrong for a doctor to be a lawyer, but I don't think it's advisable to say the other way around. [[Defiance. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Sometimes I operate.]] When I watched the debate on the second item this afternoon, on the one hand, I was alarmed by what was waiting for me, honestly, and on the other hand, I began to think that if you make decisions, it is best to think about the number two system: yes or no. I asked myself four questions. Do we want to increase the autonomy of universities? I think there's no other way to answer that than to say yes. The next question was that we wanted the centralisation and management of universities to be reduced. Yeah, because regardless of the fact that I'm one of the centers of control in quotes, obviously I'm not always good at it. Do we want universities to be able to go a little further out of the current over-regulated situation and get more room for manoeuvre? Yes, we do. Do we want them to be more predictable, more stable and longer-term? I think you may not be able to read the bill, but you're in it. It includes the need and need of a long-term framework agreement between 15 and 25 years of age. [[19.10]] It has a three-year funding requirement, and if the law is passed, it will be mandatory. That may not be in it, but in other respects it is supposed to be a rule that, from one year to another, there can be no movement more than 5 per cent going down, yes, because if there are more tasks to be done by an institution, it must be financed. The state is indeed ordering education needs, and will conclude these contracts along the lines of educational tasks. I believe that it is extremely important that the state-funded student will continue to be present here, in these model-changing universities and institutions, in the same way as in the past, obviously in accordance with current needs. By the way, I don't know, maybe Congressman Harvesto... he didn't... [[Dr. Brenner to Koloman.]] You ... It has been said how market needs can be made, so I agree, market needs cannot be introduced into ad hoc educational institutions, even vocational schools are difficult, so to a university! University institutions should have conditions, education and scientific backgrounds that are forward-looking and should be left to them and to the academic sphere. But we have to have regulation, we all have to work together, so that the academic side has room for manoeuvre. The farm, because it's reappeared, I have to dodge it. The fact that there have been all kinds of ideas about agricultural education for decades has been said and I agree with it. But the work, the workshop that brought us to this bill, started over a year ago, how should I put it? raising problems and looking for answers to problems. I do not think that the solution that we have come to this House with is the best solution, but I believe that this is a good solution. At a time when you try to make or make a change in a system, it must be important that you believe that you are doing it in the right direction, and that everyone else's job is to control that it is indeed a good direction. We don't want private universities from these, not worse-performing, working universities, let me tell you. - we have been thinking about institutions that have been made impossible, but we have been thinking about institutions that are dynamically developing, have good room for manoeuvre and have already said so before, and we have put appropriate material on the table. I trust that life will be able to justify these positive efforts, but I still have to tell you what framework we provide; implementation depends on the institutions, their leaders and their teaching and research teams who are there at the moment. I trust that all institutions are one that wants and can work for their own institution, for students, for colleagues working there and for the future of Hungarian higher education at all. Thank you for listening.
u2020-04-08-179	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agenda. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm applied for a post-meeting speech on the title of the Crown Virus and Government Propaganda. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-08-180	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The most important thing in our problems caused by the corona virus is to protect both health and the economy, and it is not important for the current government to polish itself and embellish itself. Unfortunately, this is not what we have seen in the past; there have been a lot of questions and phenomena that we think are particularly, not elegant, not fair in the face of such a serious problem. In the law on defence, which was called the Delegated Law, the reason was that in recent weeks it had to be done that the legislation lacked the powers, the rules of procedure to be applied to the government. We have said this several times: it was not true, the Fundamental Law, the Disaster Protection Act, the 234/2011. Government decree, the Health Act and Article 18/1998. The Minister of Social Welfare decree clearly defined all the activities that the government, the Chief Officer, the Minister of the Interior and the leaders of disaster management should have carried out. What was finally seen was that this law was only a power effort, and what they wanted most of all to achieve was that the failed tasks that the government had already done long before this epidemic occurred should have been done to cover it up. It is only interesting to say that on 31 March 2020, at 16 p.m. 44 p.m., the government extended all its provisions, even those that didn't expire, and yet at 8:15 p.m. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said to the press that the opposition had leaked in defence, even though it didn't happen in any way. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that the most important thing in defense is the priests, then the police, then the soldiers, and the doctors were only in fourth place. This is extremely painful. Never before has a single epidemic been solved not by police, priests, and doctors, but primarily by science and then by doctors, as well as by health care personnel. Our prime minister doesn't care about science or health care personnel, only his own propaganda. The reason for the delegation law was, among other things, that the Parliament would not be able to sit, not knowing that Parliament could make decisions, which was not necessary at all, because the legislation empowers the government to do everything. Compared to this, since March 31, the government has submitted 16 legislative proposals across 527 pages, and we have been holding the fourth long sitting since that day. So it was just government propaganda and not real. On a daily basis, the minister and his state ministers reported in Parliament on the question of pro-government representatives bringing home our stranded countrymen from abroad, and what a heroic struggle they had, and they made it look like the government was doing it for mercy. But that's not true either. The Fundamental Law XXVII. Article 2 (2) states that Hungarian citizens also enjoy the protection of Hungary abroad. And after the possibilities of international transport in the international space were stopped by the various countries, it is therefore quite clear that the Fundamental Law obliged the Government of Hungary to bring home all Hungarian citizens from abroad. So it was government propaganda again. The Koronavirus.gov.hu page contains 80 percent government propaganda and only 20 percent informative data. For example, for six days, this site reported on the arrival of medical shipments from China and from different locations, the same shipment for six days, and at the end of the day, when it happened, nothing else was left out, but the important thing is that an An-124 transporter was carrying goods from China, and not just Wizz Air machines, which actually raised a company to the sky. Then there's the question of job creation. Every day we hear that the government will create as many jobs as the plague will destroy. [[19.20]] Only the government does not create jobs, it is created by the market. The government can train public servants or employ as many as 54,000 forints of public workers as possible, but the market, which should be friends today and support micro-enterprises and small businesses, is not heard from today either. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-04-08-181	Thank you, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting next Tuesday at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
