u2020-10-06-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 5th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. Mr Attila Gelencsér and notary László Varga will be here to help me with the meeting. Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, He was executed on this day 171 years ago. Aradon is the thirteen generals of the Hungarian army of independence in 1848-49, a few hundred meters from here and Count Lajos Batthyány, the Prime Minister of the first responsible Hungarian government, in the yard of the former New Building in Pest. Lajos Batthyány's memory is guarded by eternal torches at the execution site, and Aradon's György Zala, once destroyed, and then re-raised the Liberty Monument and the obelisk next to the city, reminds the posterity of the tragic events that took place in 1849. The 1848-49 Revolution and War of Independence live in every Hungarian's heart a vivid memory and national historical tradition. As schoolchildren, we proudly recite the 19th century. The poems of the revolutionary poets of the century, young people, are touched by the desire for freedom and revolutionary feeling of the late heroes, the symbol of March, and the coke-cock each year with pride on our coats. On 6 October, the people of the Carpathian Basin together remember the heroes and ordinary people who may have belonged to different nationalities or social groups, but they were able to join the call of the revolutionaries in Pest under the banner of Hungarian freedom and take on death or persecution for life. From the point of view of posterity, it is clear that their sacrifice was not in vain, politically or morally, laying the foundations on which we can still build. Ladies and gentlemen, Lajos Kossuth, whose life's most important value was the freedom and independence of Hungary, said in a commemorative speech in 1890: "Let the sacred martyrs bless you in their dust, in their spirits with the best blessings of the God of Home Freedom through eternal reality; With the warmth of gratitude, I bless the sacred memory of martyrs for their loyalty to Homeland,'and for the sublime example given to their successors; So let us bow our heads to the memory of all of them on this national day of mourning. [[The people in this room stand up and pay tribute to the martyrs of Arad.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with speeches before the agenda. Tamás Mellár, Member of the Dialogue Group, asked for a pre-meeting speech on our current affairs. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-06-1	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, During the outbreak of the crisis caused by the virus, the Orbán government put together a crisis response package, which the Prime Minister called historic, which, according to his announcement, reached 20 percent of GDP. After hearing this, Hungarian citizens were able to relax and thought that we could face this economic crisis and face it, because there will be no problem, there will be no problem. However, as the results started to come, the results were getting worse and worse in July and August, it turned out that the, the historical indicator was not the crisis management package, but rather the decline, since the 13.5 and 14.5 percent decline in GDP, which was achieved in Hungary in the second quarter, since there was a quarterly GDP calculation in Hungary, has not yet been so high. We also had the biggest decline in the V4 countries, Hungary also produced the third largest decline in Spain and Croatia among the countries of the European Union. According to Eurostat surveys, employment levels in Hungary decreased by 5.6 percent in the second quarter, higher than in Spain alone, with a 7,6 percent decline in employment. We are undoubtedly the first in inflation in the European Union: the highest inflation was in Hungary both in July and August. The Orbán government has sought to avoid a general government deficit in order to have a high public deficit, so it has been sparingly managing the allocation of resources to alleviate the crisis, especially if it had been directed towards small and medium-sized enterprises, not to mention the fact that it has slashed social support very strongly. At the same time, of course, he has taken great care to ensure that friendly companies have the right amount of money, as well as the favourite investments, sports investments that are very important to the government. Yet the budget deficit ran away. According to the Minister for Finance and the Committee on Budgets, a deficit of 7-9 percent is expected by the end of the year. However, it is worth drawing attention here to the fact that the general government deficit will not be so high because the government has invested considerable resources in crisis management, but in spite of its failure to do so, and therefore GDP has been broken. The break-in of GDP has led to a significant decline in revenues and, consequently, a significant deficit. As a result of the general government deficit, of course, the debt-to-GDP ratio also started to increase: from 66.3 percent last year to 72 percent in the first half of the year, and by the end of the year it will rise to 77-78 percent, not me, but the Committee on Budgets and the Ministry of Finance. Let us remember that the debt-to-GDP ratio after the 2008 crisis was around 78-80 percent in the time of the socialist governments' regregation. So what's the consequence? The Hungarian economy has not become stronger, more competitive and more crisis-resistant in the last ten years, despite the fact that EU funds have significantly increased the margin of manoeuvre, as 50 percent of our one-year GDP has been reached. [[9.10]] By the way, this means that the Orbán government has missed the historic opportunity to catch up, sinfully squandered development resources, provided them to friendly oligarchs, funded sports investments, instead of technical development and improving education. It will happen, and not us old men will do this to account for this historical failure in the Orbán government, but for the young generations, because they have taken away their future. And you can already see that young people are aware of that and have begun to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita applauds.]]
u2020-10-06-2	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, Minister of State, wishes to respond. Deputy Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-10-06-3	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We do not see the performance of the Hungarian economy in the same way. But, if I may, I would not say the numbers first, which clearly demonstrate that, contrary to your claim, the Hungarian economy has handled the crisis well, the Hungarian government, the Hungarian budget, and a strong economy and a sound financial policy and budget have faced the global epidemic and its economic impact. First of all, what happened a few days ago, Hungary's rating by Moody. s credit rating agency, which clearly pointed out that it was in this period, during the crisis, that Hungary was categorizing Hungary and putting it in a positive category because it stated in its justification that Hungary had handled the crisis well. So it is not the government who claims it, not pro-government politicians, but an investigative credit rating agency that investigates it under strict conditions. If we compare GDP figures at international level, with the GDP figure in the second half, which is minus 6.1 percent, Hungary is still in the middle field. Three countries fell above 10% at the end of the second half, Italy, France and Spain, and only one country was able to deliver positive results, which was Ireland. If we look at only the second quarter decline, which is indeed high, 13.5 percent, this is even if we look at the second quarter and look at the Hungarian decline to the average of the European Union, then interestingly, contrary to your claim, the EU average is higher than the Hungarian GDP downturn. All this proves and proves that Hungarian economic measures, government decisions were good, and despite the global crisis, we managed the economic difficulties well, such as the rise in unemployment. If you'll allow me, I'd like to give you an example. The unemployment rate in July is 7.2 per cent in the 27 countries of the European Union, in Hungary 4.6 per cent; in Romania and Slovakia it is higher than in Hungary. But if we look at the results in August in particular, more than 4.5 million people are working again in Hungary on the basis of the KSH report, which means that it is higher than the employment data at the beginning of the year. These all show, Mr President, that Hungary does show a good trend in the macroeconomic indicators that you have listed. He also mentioned running away from the budget deficit. It is no coincidence that the European Union also says for 2020 that crisis management, defence, need resources and money, which can only happen if the budget deficit increases, especially with revenues falling behind due to the decline in the economy. This is not a Hungarian feature, since the budget deficit will be similar throughout the European Union by the end of 2020. That's right, it does go hand in hand with the fact that the debt ratio is growing. What we've been working on for ten years is that we've taken it from debt to above 80% of GDP to below 70 percent, 66 percent, unfortunately, we have to start again. But this is not the case for Hungary alone, but for Europe in general. And what you are saying over the past ten years is certainly not true, because Hungary has one of the strongest economies in the European Union, which is clearly confirmed by the increases in the last ten years. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-10-06-4	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech:, is the EU's climate targets really absurd? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-06-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the context of the Covid epidemic, we must not forget that the process of climate change has accelerated very rapidly and that the impact and consequences of this process are increasingly serious. It cannot be said enough that our country is particularly exposed to extreme weather conditions that we can experience in all areas of our lives. However, the government does not want to take this into account. Its climate policy is constantly delayed and has a significant step-by-step disadvantage. There is a growing gap between deeper problems and real, meaningful action, and there is a gap between international expectations and domestic climate targets. The IPCC reports that we only have ten years left to keep the temperature rise below 1.5 degrees Celsius, which still reduces the danger, but does not eliminate it. The President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, recently announced that, in 2030, the European Union should set a reduction of 55 per cent compared to 1990 rather than the current 40 per cent reduction. It may not be enough to cover it. The European Parliament's Committee on the Environment already proposes a 60% reduction. According to the views of the LMP and European Greens, which is fully in line with the views of civil society organisations and climate scientists, even these more stringent climate targets are not enough to contain the ecological disaster. Scientists believe critical climate change points are linked, much more than they thought, and they will threaten human civilization as a domino. Unfortunately, the Carpathian Basin and Hungary are also particularly vulnerable. In the spring, we have already fought with the government in terms of stricter climate targets, the result of which has been an ambitious, neutered climate law adopted by a majority of governments. János Áder didn't speak then. Yesterday at a conference, he said that action must be taken immediately against climate change. If that is what the President of the Republic thinks, then he should raise his word now that the government does not boycott the European Union's more stringent climate targets, stand by us to reduce CO2 emissions more quickly and to a greater extent. In the spring, we announced that we would present a legislative amendment in the autumn in order to rehabilitate the neutered climate bill. The aim of the LMP is for Hungary to join the European Union's leadership, to pursue more stringent climate targets and to finally take substantial steps to combat climate change. Our proposed amendment aims at reducing CO2 by 65 per cent by 2030 and achieving climate neutrality by 2040. It is therefore necessary to put an end to the destruction of the green surface, whether it be forests, grasslands, orchards, vineyards, reeds, ploughers, vegetable growing areas or even the green areas of our settlements. [[9.20]] Unfortunately, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán has already called the target announced by Ursula von der Leyen a climate target raised to absurdity. The government, as we are used to, represents the interests of the German automotive industry vis-à-vis Hungarian people, and this is unacceptable. There is no vaccine for climate change, only the wise opinion of the people and governments is that action must be taken now. We Hungarians must also take the necessary steps here in Hungary. It is not the absurd way that climate targets are tightened up, but the way the government hinders effective action against climate change. He still does not understand that the ecological disaster will result in much more serious economic and social crises than Covid. We therefore expect Parliament to unanimously support the adoption of stricter climate targets in the interests of the country, because the future will or will not be green. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-10-06-6	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Tamás Schanda wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-10-06-7	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Please allow me to begin my response with a question. Isn't it absurd that when the left side joins together and jointly submits a bill, presents a parliamentary resolution proposal for the protection of the created world in order to prevent or mitigate climate change, then votes against this proposal, doesn't vote in favour of the parliamentary resolution and doesn't vote in favour of the law? Because that's what happened, honourable Member. The Parliament adopted this law, and adopted this parliamentary resolution, which was not supported and voted for by the complete left, including the LMP, which is itself green. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We see great words and indignation, but we see no action, no contribution from you to achieve the goals. They oppose the proposals that the Hungarian government regularly formulates in the context of climate change in order to adapt to climate change. They are opposed to projects that contribute to emission reductions, and they are opposed to Paks II. For example, they are opposed to the Budapest-Belgrád railway line. Congresswoman, these projects should be supported, not attacked. That would be the real and responsible attitude to these issues. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Let me also draw your attention to what the left did not support, this law and this parliamentary resolution, which is so important for you in Europe, what you think, what you are saying and what goals you are setting the voices of recognition, and we hear that you are happy and supportive of the adopted law and the adopted parliamentary resolution that was only supported by the national and conservative side here in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Despite this, I think that protecting the created world is not a matter of political fashion, even though they try to make it a political issue over and over again, because it is indeed a question in which we should all work together and act together. But this requires you, too, to see that it is worth supporting the government's efforts, the government's work on climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Hungary has therefore not only committed itself to becoming a climate-neutral Member State by 2050, but has also recorded this at a legal level, among the first in the EU. This was done by only a few countries outside our country, outside Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We are in the position that everyone, all the Member States, should comply with the objectives they have undertaken. We see that Hungary is doing well, and our country has already achieved 33 percent emission reductions compared to 1990. And what we see is that there are a number of Member States that are talking about a reduction or an increase in ambition, but yet, in recent times, they have not only reduced their emissions, but they have actually increased their emissions. And we believe that in Europe we need not words, but real actions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me also to draw your attention to the fact that I understand that LMP is a single case party, which is why this issue is placed ahead of all, but the fact is that we are in a situation where we need to protect the workplace of Hungarian people, protect the livelihood of Hungarian families, and we need the economy and Hungary to work for this. It is therefore necessary to set emission reduction targets that are consistent with economic realities. Moreover, the unilateral reduction of Hungary's emissions, which you are proposing, would create a significant competitive disadvantage for Hungary, both within Europe and otherwise throughout the world market. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-06-8	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Gergely Arató, Member of the DK Group, asked for a pre-meeting address with the title of workers left to themselves. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-06-9	If Mr Schanda, State Secretary, has just justified the government's ostrich policy on climate protection with regard to the protection of jobs, he has justified why they are not doing anything to reduce emissions, so that this country can continue to live 20-30-40 years from now, let us see how the government is doing with jobs. The second wave of the plague is on our neck, which, like the first wave, threatens not only our health but also our workplaces. What, then, can workers expect from the government, what can workers who have lost their jobs, families who have lost their livelihoods expect? To what we have just seen: beautiful words, empty rhetoric, and statistical magic. [[Dr. László Varga takes his place as notary.]] On 27 April, it was the Prime Minister himself who said to an opposition question: "This is the problem of unemployment assistance and work. If you lose your job, you get benefits for three months, by the time it expires, everyone gets a job. There will be no one who does not receive a job offer from the economy or from the Hungarian state, said the Prime Minister, who you believe is always telling the truth. Then you have no idea what you're talking about. Because now let us let Europe's narrowest unemployment benefit be enough to support a family. But even more so are the figures that there is no mention that everyone had a job within three months. Well, at best, it was just bragging, and at worst, it was a stupid lie. More than half of the unemployed, about 170,000 job seekers, are no longer receiving any financial benefits. Well, they're the ones who expired three months ago, and they didn't get an offer from the economy or the government. In addition, half of those who receive something will receive social benefits, not job-seeking support, because they have already run out of it. So there are hundreds of thousands of people who after three months didn't get a job, and now they don't get any benefits in your system. The Prime Minister himself acknowledged this in a later interview when he said that, well, there are these registered unemployed, but again, I quote, there are more people than that, but they do not come to the state for help. They don't go to the state for help, this House, they don't get help! We all know of cases where it took weeks, but months, to even register jobseekers and receive any kind of care. Well, it's easy to improve unemployment statistics if people aren't allowed to register in the system. That is exactly what happened in the spring, my fellow Members. And don't think you can breathe now. I was impressed to see Minister Gulyás's production yesterday, trying to prove statistically how good the situation is and how much the government has solved all the problems in the field of employment. But if you open up the forecast of the Matolcsy central bank, it is not a goose nest, and I think you do not think it is, then you can read that the exit of the pay support programme and the delay of the epidemic are expected to increase the unemployment rate significantly until the first quarter of 2021, and in the first wave of the epidemic, businesses did not respond with classical redundancies, but increased numbers of people in part-time work and absence, including unpaid absences. [[9.30]] By the way, that's what the unemployment statistics show, which you quote, but you forget to add. In other words, there are people who have a job on paper, but they don't have a substantial salary, or they only have a much lower salary than before. Compared to this, the government does nothing for these workers. While in Germany, for example, one in five workers had previously received part-time employment support, one in Kurzarbeit and one in Austria, this only reached every 20 workers in Hungary, and this very narrow-handed, very narrow-handed one! Support was also eliminated at the time of the second wave. While the Czech Republic has extended the original autumn measure to spring next year, this is over for you. And of course, I know they'll stand up to protect a million jobs, but they only exist in your dreams. You spent the economic support instruments, the Economic Protection Fund, on everything in the world, from stadiums to church support, but what you gave to your friends for economic purposes, for example, hotel owners, where Lőrinc Mészáros immediately thanked you for this state aid with a wave of layoffs. It's not too late to listen to professionals now, it's not too late to change damage can still be reduced. Thank you very much. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Too late!]] Hang on a second.
u2020-10-06-10	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Tamás Schanda wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-10-06-11	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is quite amazing and completely uncredited that you dare to stand up at the Parliamentary Assembly [[Gergely Arató: I've also been elected, Mr. Secretary of State.]] and to present such a statement before the agenda, while you know precisely, as you have actively participated in how you have dealt with the economic crisis, how you have dealt with the economic difficulties. [[Gergely Arató: At least we treated him, against you! The president's gonna ring the bell.]] Congressman, you have handled this, whatever you say, by putting new and new burdens on the shoulders of Hungarian people and Hungarian families, instead of helping them, you have only made their situation worse. You know that. You know perfectly well that during the Bokros package and you know exactly what a misguided policy was conducted during the 2009 crisis management period. Mr President, it would be my request that you look into yourselves for the first time and then make any proposals. You have only taken away the 13th month's pension in the name of crisis management, Congressman, you have given your personal vote to abolish the 13th month's pension. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Like this, like this! Dr. Pál Völner: Shame on you!]] Honourable Member, you have given your personal vote along with your fellow left-wing Members to take a month's wages from those working in the public sector, but they have reduced the duration of the child, increased the VAT key [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] They've raised retirement age, they've reduced sick pay, they've wanted to put in real estate taxes. In the meantime, Congressman, they've taken out big loans. That's what they did! That's what they did for crisis management. After that, he will try to take action against us. Congressman, this is unworthy, this is untrue, this is totally unacceptable. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Allow me to inform you that our measures, the economic protection action plan, do have results. Here he brought up job creation and job protection most often in his speech. Allow me to draw your attention to the fact that by September, after the low end of June, the number of registered job seekers in Hungary decreased by 53,000, and in August the number of employees increased again to 4.5 million, thus the number of employees exceeded the early 2020 value. Mr President, at the beginning of 2020, Hungarian employment was particularly good, unlike when you were in the government. You stand up and talk about employment and work here in the Hungarian Parliament, so that when government was handed over, unemployment in Hungary was 12 percent. On the other hand, thanks to the measures taken by the civil national government and those involved in the Hungarian economy, we managed to reduce the unemployment rate of 12 per cent to 3.3 per cent after 2010. Honourable Congressman, In historical times, there is a need for historical action, not cowardice, helplessness, frustration [[You're talking about the government!]] You and your fellow party regularly deal with the production and distribution of these false news because, apparently, that's all you guys had in the spring and now, in the fall. The truth, Mr President, is that unlike you, the civil national government has already proved that it can create jobs. At the beginning of 2020, allow me to draw this attention to 850 thousand more people in Hungary than in 2010. The employment rate between 2010 and 20 rose from 54 per cent to 70 per cent. So the past decade has proven that Hungarian people want and can make a living from work. That is why we have done and done everything we can to protect as many jobs as possible and to create as many new jobs as the virus destroys. Honourable Congressman, I would ask you to look at yourself, to be ashamed of yourself, and to support the government's actions in the following ways. [[Gergely Harvester: Definitely! I can't wait.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-06-12	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. Dear Parliament, Mr Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group, also spoke before the agenda, with the title "Remembrance." You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-06-13	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! For five years now, we have not had a man who has shown us that power is really a service and that politics can be a human face. Árpád Göncz died five years ago, the first President of the Republic after the change of regime. He was President, but no one really saw the office in him, but the man; the man who was one of us, and I think that is the greatest recognition that a public-law dignity can achieve. Árpád Göncz was not made great by the office, but by his honesty, his directness and his human standing. For the people, he wasn't Mr. President, he was simply Uncle Árpí. In his first speech, he made his presidential creed very clear:. If I wish to serve someone, I serve those who do not have a servant: the defenseless. For whom neither in the Cranefeather world nor in the world of equals have a good word been spoken, who are incompetitors. Who don't have the means to protect themselves. And who, therefore, need the most protection. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. He was a hero of fifty-six, a fantastic writer and literary translator, but the Hungarian people mostly locked him in his heart for his humanity and directness. I remember one time when we met, I asked him what I could call him. In the most natural way in the world, he said Uncle Árpí. For the Hungarian people, Árpád Göncz is the eternal President of the Republic, the model. He actually embodied the nation's unity. Of course, I know that some people are still trying to forget her merits and her memories. But all of this is because the life and moral keeping of Árpád Göncz, Puritan, still humiliates those who use their vocation to rule and rule today. Uncle Árpí could see into the future in this too, for he once said: "There are always those who try to abuse the power they have received from the hands of the community. Such a man must be taught the proper service of the public, as we do, we must learn to serve him ourselves. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Árpád Göncz has not been among us for five years, and I suspect many of us have been looking for him ever since, and we miss him in politics, because not only his person, but his spirit is very missing. He really defended the republic and guarded the constitutional order. Perhaps it is not a coincidence that today the republic is fading and the achievements of democracy are fading. We believe that we can bring back what Árpád Göncz once represented. We Socialists cherish the memory of Árpád Göncz, honor Uncle Árpí by working with all our strength for a new Hungarian republic. I hope more and more of you will follow me along this path. Thank you for listening. [[9.40]]
u2020-10-06-14	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-10-06-15	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Today, we are commemorating a number of things, so besides the execution of the martyrs in Arad, we do remember the former President, Árpád Göncz, and I think that we can connect the two events with the symbol of national solidarity, and I think that this symbol may be what, despite the political and obvious ideological differences, is, after all, a common engraving. Árpád Göncz's political work and life as well as his literary work deserve recognition. Let me highlight separately the translation of Lord of the Rings Tolkien, which I think is a very serious literary achievement. Although the performance of all political players can and can be debated from a party political point of view and in relation to the assessment of his public life activities, in this sense the performance of all political players is still debatable, and this is also part of democracy and parliamentarism. On the one hand, the fact that he suffered the crimes of the communist regime before the regime changed and, on the other hand, he embodied Hungary in an institutional sense and in person before the regime change, was one of the public officials of this free Hungary, and therefore we must remember him, as well as the martyrs of Arad who were executed for the protection of Hungarian sovereignty and freedom. I think that this is the feeling of national solidarity, which may be difficult to come up with in the daily parliamentary struggles. There are events in which we will never, the two sides, the political left and the right will never agree, but there must be events in which national cooperation takes place. I would like to ask you that if you really want to preserve the memory of Árpád Göncz, if you are serious about the issue of national cohesion, then let us find these common points, these national points of belonging. I think there's a gift at the moment that makes the situation good for us, unfortunately, but it's a good thing we're fighting a coronal virus epidemic from the point of view of unity. For example, this would be a field where we could put party policy differences in the background, and we would be able to cooperate above it, which was not successful in spring. I think that the Hungarian left could best pay tribute to the memory of Árpád Göncz if this were different in the autumn, and they would also change their attitude towards this. Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-06-16	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Balczó, Member of the Jobbik Group, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-06-17	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Yes, local elections took place in Romania on 27 September. First of all, Jobbik congratulates all elected Hungarian councillors, mayors and county council presidents. An outstanding, historic success has been achieved in Marosvásárhely, where Zoltán Soós was elected, and after 20 years there is a Hungarian mayor again in Marosvásárhely, where, by the way, the proportion of the Hungarian population is already under 50 percent. Success has several components. Obviously, the mayor has successfully addressed the Romanian voters, but we are also convinced that it has contributed to the result that now it is not the DAHR, Zoltán Soós, who started in the colours of a party, but as an independent candidate, i.e. the DAHR, the Hungarian Civil Party and the Hungarian People's Party of Transylvania, or their new alliance, as a candidate for the Hungarian Federation of Transylvania. This local elections have provided a number of lessons, first and foremost it turns out that Transylvanian Hungarians not only want to vote, but also want to choose. Why do I have to stress that? Because the government intention in Budapest was clear before the elections: only the Hungarians should vote for the RMDSZ. Zsolt Semjén sent a video message, where he said: "The DAHR is the only political organization capable of protecting Hungarians and representing Hungarian interests. In the middle of the campaign. Of course, the DAHR published this on its website, it is perfectly understandable, as it was understandable that in 2008 the president of DAHR protested in Budapest why Fidesz unilaterally intervened in the elections with the support of the Hungarian Civil Party. Zsolt Semjén's message raises the question: should there be no competition between DAHR and the mayors, councillors and mayors of these parties, independent or independent, in a block-Hungarian area, everyone should vote only for the DAHR and their candidates? Where there is reason to start a Hungarian party, does there not need to be a conciliation between individual parties? Árpád Potápi said in Transylvania:. A Hungarian community from abroad can't take more ethnic parties, we can focus our forces only in a Hungarian party. At the end of his reply to my immediate question in Parliament, he branded László Tőkés unspoken but identifiable, who had to respond to it as follows: "I, we have been betrayed only by the Romanian secret service, Securitate. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Let's see what results have been made in the cities of the Court of Justice. In Székelyudvarhely Árpád Gálfi and his team were forced to start in the colours of the Free People's Party; the Hungarian Civil Party, the old Hungarian Civil Party, is responsible for this. The Székelyudvarhely, a 96 percent Hungarian population, voted for him again with a large majority. On Székelykeresztúr the mayor was given by the Hungarian Association of Transylvania, in Szentegyháza by the Hungarian Association of Transylvania. Baron was chosen as an independent candidate instead of RMDSZ. Would they not be able to represent the Hungarian interest? Do you continue to maintain this position? Of course, they can give data in the answer, the RMDSZ is the decisive political force in Transylvania. Of course, the strategic decisions of the RMDSZ have taken government action with the Romanian party or do not take government, they remain in opposition to the Hungarian interest. As we stated before the elections, we do not wish to discourage anyone from supporting any candidate for the RMDSZ, but we have argued that there is a unilateral intervention. The Hungarian Government has many tasks at diplomatic level, in the joint relationship of the two countries, in international forums, and of course the Hungarian State has an obligation to support these organisations, the Hungarians across the border, clearly transparently and not for the purpose of creating a culture. But there is one thing that is not your job, and I am asking you, or perhaps I could also say that I would ask you to refrain from creating a one-party system, because that is what the Transylvanian Hungarians are telling you. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] and before the parliamentary elections, it will be very important that the most appropriate parties and candidates join forces. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-06-18	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-10-06-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Given that your speech mentioned issues of national policy and national strategy, I would like to start with what we have done in this regard since 2010. First of all, we rebuilt the institutional forum for Hungarian-Hungarian relations, which was terminated earlier. We have re-established a Hungarian Permanent Conference, and we have established the Hungarian Diaspora Council, where 100 organizations of the world's Hungarians are present. We gave Hungarian citizenship to Hungarians across the border, thanks to simplified naturalization, 1 million Hungarians from abroad became part of the Hungarian nation in public law, and they were able to become even more involved in the country's blood circulation by receiving suffrage. We have tenfold the amount of resources for national policy purposes. In 2009, only HUF 9 billion was available, which has been over HUF 100 billion for years. [[9.50]] Through programs and grants, we contribute to the survival and maintenance of three thousand Hungarian institutions and organizations operating in the Carpathian Basin and Diaspora every year. We reach all Hungarian settlements and all Hungarian communities in the Carpathian Basin. Our aim is not to be Hungarian at a disadvantage, but to be an advantage in the future; in this sense, to achieve a cross-border and cross-border union beyond our losses since Trianon. In addition to culture and education, we invest in the economy, providing professional and financial support to thousands of Hungarian companies abroad in the framework of business development projects, which employed more than 90 percent of Hungarian workers. With this we can contribute to the livelihood of tens of thousands of foreign Hungarians. Our kindergarten development program in the Carpathian Basin also runs nicely, with more than 140 new kindergartens and nurserys, 700 institutions renewed; and we see that in most areas, thanks to God, the number of children taking part in Hungarian kindergarten education is growing. Thanks to the Kőrösi Csoma program, Sándor Petőfi program, we are present in more than 270 diaspora and sporadic communities; and we also try to support churches in a cross-border way, some 1,600 churches, parishes, parishes, church community houses have been renewed and built since 2010. The Unlimited! The programme aims to deliver hundreds of thousands of students from the motherland across the border and to help students across the border to reach the mother country. Congressman also mentioned the Transylvanian interim elections. I would also like to congratulate all the Hungarian local leaders elected in Transylvania. I think that the example you mentioned in Marosvásárhely shows that this result is, in fact, the success of cooperation. The Hungarian government's attitude is clear: the Hungarian government wants to support all Hungarian organizations in Transylvania, but the Hungarian political representation can be the strongest if Hungarians across the border vote unitedly, and the united vote is always the support of the strongest party and candidate in the elections. Where there is the strongest party, where there is the strongest candidate, there must be support, and if the Hungarians vote unitedly, then Hungarian representation can be the strongest. I'm sorry, but this connection, I think, is easy to see with common sense. And I think I have questions for you, too, since you seem to have the fate of Hungarians beyond the borders. How, for example, do you want to cooperate with Ferenc Gyurcsány, who led a referendum and a campaign against Hungarians across the border in 2004? It has abolished all stakeholder forums and has reduced the support of people across borders to virtually zero. Last year, this may have started collecting signatures before last year in order to take away the right to vote from Hungarians across the border. So you are in an alliance with a party that will run with a party that will take away the right to vote from Hungarians across the border. [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] So please don't look down on Transylvanian people, don't look down on Transylvanian people as birds; they don't ask for Jobbik's support, because Jobbik's politics is untrue. So I would like to ask you, if you are seriously concerned, to turn away from your current allies, turn to the government and support the government's efforts in this direction. By the way, the Transylvanian Hungarians won't let him think they're a patsy. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]]
u2020-10-06-20	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, KDNP Group asked for a pre-meeting speech:. Let's protect the children and protect the families. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-06-21	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The Hungarian family policy is world-famous, and we have organized several international conferences here in Budapest, where guests from all over the world, from all continents, have come to see what Hungarian family policy is like, how we protect families with support on the one hand, like family tax relief, CSOK, village CSOK and many other options, because I would like to put it in their own country. At the same time, many people do not like the fact that Hungary is building a family-friendly country. Over the past few weeks, it has been very upsetting that, with the support of the Open Society Foundation of György Soros, a gender fairy tale book has been issued to preschoolers and elementary schoolchildren. The publishers were happy and proud to announce that this volume was created with the support of György Soros. The children are targeted by this propaganda, the children are targeted by this reeducation book. The rewritten tales are misleading in many ways, because when parents look at the shelves of the bookstores, it looks like another fairy tale book, but these fairy tale books would never have been created in the world of folktales. The only reason they could have been created is because there's a man who finances people who already rewrite folk tales, and there's a difference between stories. Here, for example, Snow White is politically correct, not Snow White, but Avarbrown. Not the youngest son and the princess will marry at the end of the story, but two princes will become a couple. As a first request from the fairy who meets him, they ask for no change in this tale. In fact, in the employment plan created by the raise, teachers are called upon to process these stories about very small children, so we can talk about children in kindergarten and elementary school to talk about the same-sex marriage, boys try to see what it's like to dance like a girl, and then tell us how they felt while dancing as girls. These reeducational books are very dangerous because they carry high - age content. What sexuality means, what homosexuality means, obviously a four-year-old can't explain his position, but not even a six-, seven-, eight-year-old child. These questions are complex and complex questions that can be discussed with an adult head, and you can think with an adult head. Taking this in kindergarten is irresponsible, as it is a topic that can be understood and discussed most by older people. In addition, in many cases there is a danger that it will happen behind parents' backs, without their consent; they may even convey to their children a value world that is not the same as that of parents. Let the parents raise the child, do not want any organization behind the parents' back to raise children in a different world of values than parents would give them! That's why we have family, so family is the main asset. A petition has been launched against this book. It spread like a wildfire on the Internet, very quickly signed by a lot of people, there are more than 80-85 thousand protesters. Eszter Schittl, who launched this petition, is also here in the box, and in a few days he was physically threatened. He was threatened because as a Christian, he protested according to his own view of the world, and he called others to protest against this gender publication. No one on the left, but no one on the left who had drawn monocles for himself, set torches, organized a living chain, organised any action, did not stand up to him, did not stand up to the physical threat, only because he was a Christian and started this petition for the Christian view of the world, and he was attacked because he did not follow genderideology, but followed Christian ideology. Those who talk about women's rights and the protection of women everywhere from Budapest to Brussels have not devoted half of their Facebook post to threatening a young woman because she stood up for her Christian stand and launched a petition in addition, neither in the EU nor anywhere else. Those who organise protests even in case of verbal criticism of any LGBT group are silent in this case. And we can see that this danger is not the first time in Hungary. In 2009, the then Gyurcsány government already integrated into the national programme of kindergarten education that little boys should not be raised as little boys, little girls as little girls, but that these principles of education, which they call gender stereotypes, should be broken down. And this year, Momentum posted on Facebook that they would take gender education and reeducation into kindergarten. Protect the Hungarian families, protect the children! The right and obligation of parents to raise children and not the task of the Soros network is to rear children. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-06-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Róbert Zsigó wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[10.00]]
u2020-10-06-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for raising this issue here in the House. In 2010, we took a country on the verge of bankruptcy in a demographic sense, and we were at a low point in all major demographic indicators. The family-centred Hungarian people, especially the Hungarian youth, saw little opportunity to start a family, to have children and children. If we were to express briefly: by 2010, the Hungarian people lost faith in the future and confidence. The civilian government has had to regain and rebuild this trust over the past ten years. Therefore, in 2010 we decided to build a family-friendly country in partnership with the Hungarian families, which will help us, help us, support us in removing obstacles to family formation and childbearing, and which will provide young couples with a realistic opportunity to implement their childbearing plans. Our family policy is based on a work-based society, because if there is work, then there is everything. This is also demonstrated by the national consultation, since there is a consensus on the linking of family support to employment, with 97.5 percent of the fillers in the national consultation on the protection of families agreed with this idea. Dear Parliament, Our family support system is predictable, predictable and safe. From 2010 the civil government has been working to ensure the long-term prosperity of Hungarian families with a predictable future. Therefore, in 2010, we restored the third year of the child that was taken by the left; we increased the maximum amount of the child, which nearly doubled in ten years; we introduced a family-friendly tax system, with which more than one million families lived in 2018, 95 percent of the underage children, and with which we left nearly HUF 3000 billion for families; we launched a comprehensive crèche development programme, the number of seats nearly doubled between 2009 and 2020, the wages of the professionals working in the nursery area increased on average by two and a half times compared to 2010; we provide free textbooks for all primary and secondary school students, and 60 percent of the children in kindergarten, kindergarten and school receive free or reduced meals. In addition, it is important to point out that housing is also supported by the government for families: baby shower support can be used up to HUF 10 million, with the support of families to create homes, as well as a preferential CSOK loan for three children, this is 25 million forints to start; the second, third-child families can reduce their debt from HUF 1 to HUF 4 million, and we have introduced a moratorium on loan repayment, for which we have recently extended the deadline. Ladies and gentlemen, It can also be seen from my list that the government has constantly expanded and expanded the range of support and opportunities that help young people to learn, start a family, create a home and find a home. I agree with Mr Retvári that we must not allow our families and children to be under daily political attack. We must clearly say that we should leave our children alone, and we must continue to stand up for our Christian values. The aim is to ensure the future of Hungary, and we continue to work for Hungarian families. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-06-24	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Before the agenda, Ms Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz Group, spoke with the title of our current affairs. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-06-25	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The second wave of the plague is here with us, we can see the numbers: since early September, the number of new infections has been between 600 and 1000 a day. If we look at the European figures, Hungary is in the middle of Europe and remains one of the most defensive countries in Europe. Every human life is important, and it must be protected by all means. To do so, compliance with the right rules is essential and mandatory for all. The Fidesz fraction welcomes the extension of border closure measures and also the possibility of entering schools only after heat measurement. Our aim is to keep Hungary operational, and this is in line with the consultation where 1.8 million citizens returning the questionnaire see the same way and want the same. The answers also show the need for everyone to live their daily lives while defending, to keep schools and kindergartens running and to protect jobs, not to stop jobs because of the virus. But at the same time, everyone demands that we protect the lives of the elderly and those at risk. Hungary has effectively defended itself in the first wave of the epidemic, and the Hungarian health system has also performed world-class. This turned out, too, during the first wave of the epidemic, that Hungarian health care may have performed better than many Western European countries. The good news is that the number of employees is up to 4.5 million again, which is only 20,000 short of the employment record that has ever been recorded. Nevertheless, we believe that protecting jobs remains our main task. We're sorry that the left still doesn't help, right? They continued where they left off in the spring. Okay, let's not be surprised, they have an interest in making things worse in this country. They are unable to support protection measures during the emergency or now, but instead they attacked epidemiological and health professionals with camuvides and fake news. Since 2010, Fidesz has been constantly replacing money previously taken from health care, providing caregivers, doctors, raising wages, and not leaving them alone during the epidemic. In the summer, healthcare workers received an extra allowance of HUF 500,000 and received an extra allowance. Ladies and gentlemen, The salaries of nurses and health professionals will increase by 20 percent in November, and between 2019 and 2022, this will be 72 percent, so by 2022, the wages of health professionals will increase by 72 percent compared to 2019. We're on our way up, and until there's a vaccine, we're still in charge of defense. According to our current knowledge, we cannot expect a vaccine before the middle of next year, so the seven or eight months ahead will be difficult, full of trials. Healthcare workers will require superhuman work in order to cure all infected people; we thank them. The government therefore accepted the Hungarian Medical Chamber's presentation and the proposal for a wage increase of unprecedented proportions. Now we need all the cooperation, and this is the moment when we can make a breakthrough in doctors' wages. Based on the board of directors' proposal, we'll double the wages and set up the gratuity fund. Ladies and gentlemen, Today, therefore, the bill on health care services will be negotiated, which will ensure the effective functioning of Hungarian health care and also seek the recognition of the victimous work of the medical community. Thank them again. Mr. President, thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-06-26	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary. [[10.10]]
u2020-10-06-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Numerous countries in the world want to fight the corona virus epidemic in countless ways. We, like many other countries, strive to put every possible way of protecting ourselves into everyday practice based on WHO protocol, but there may not yet be a country in the world that wants to defend itself against a coronal virus epidemic by doubling doctors' salaries during the period of the epidemic by 72 percent during a four-year cycle. I believe that all people can see that this is also a way of increasing the possibility of success, of a successful defence. The success of Hungary's defence is also confirmed by the fact that if we look at the number of infected people or the number of people who died, say, per million inhabitants, the number of people who died in Hungary is 84, higher in Austria, Denmark, Germany, Bulgaria, Portugal, Switzerland, three times that in Canada or Romania, four times that in Ireland or the Netherlands or France, seven times that in Sweden or Italy, or eight times that in the United Kingdom, i.e. England, the USA, Spain, or ten times that in Belgium. These countries are often far more well-suited than we are. But if I look at the number of infected people, there too, say Switzerland or Austria has a double number compared to Hungary, France or Sweden has three times, Belgium four times, Spain five times, America seven times. This shows that the Hungarian people have successfully defended themselves against the coronal virus, since the proportion of people infected and the number of people who died is much lower. If we look at the deceased, we can see that most of them have had some other, more serious illness. The proportion of people with cardiovascular disease is 69 percent among the deceased, the proportion of patients with cancer is 16 percent, the proportion of patients with other chronic diseases is 12 percent, and only 3 percent of those with no known chronic disease died in the context of coronal viral disease. Hungary is trying to take all protective measures, so schools have also switched to a function where education breaks or digitalizes only where the coronal virus pops up. This is the case at the moment, since the protection is effective only 0.71 percent of preschools. A total of five schools have recessed, which is 0.16 percent of schools, and only 2 percent of schools have digital work schedules in one class, and 0.13 percent have digital work schedules and extra-curricular education in the entire school. So we also managed to maintain the functionality of education. This is important, because it is important to measure the temperature at the school gate, because it is important to eliminate the opportunities that result in the mixing of different classes, because this will protect the functioning of schools and the functioning of schools, and we believe that we can protect the workplace of parents to a great extent, and that is our intention in the future. All protection measures are important, since we can see that Hungary's epidemic curve occurs at a lower level, but in periods similar to those of many other countries. If you look at it, there are some countries where the epidemic has reached a further upward stage in Hungary at the beginning of August, at the end of August. This is the case in almost every other country. Daily records are set in Spain, France, Britain, Slovakia, Romania. The rate of spread of the disease is ten times higher in Ireland; they are planning to complete their isolation for four weeks. In the Czech Republic, universities and colleges switch to digital working order. So the virus is clearly spreading at an increasing rate in countries richer than us and in neighbouring countries, and more and more serious measures are being taken, and even thousands of cases of infection have suddenly emerged in Britain that have been left out of the register. In Hungary testing is free of charge for everyone who is prescribed by the doctor, the general practitioner or the epidemiological authority for showing symptoms or having close contact with a coronal virus patient. And who decides that although there are no signs of the disease, he still wants to be tested, and for them we have set an official price, so it can't be [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You can't profit from these people. During the first wave, the defense was successful. Let's hope that we can work together [[The president's ringing again.]] During the second wave, we can be successful again! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-06-28	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dear Parliament, A joint debate on the proposal for a medical service will follow in an exceptional procedure. Government referral T/13174. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[On both the pro-government and the opposition side, some Members speak standing up. Noise.]] With all due respect, my fellow Members, the agenda is being presented, if you think you would like to participate in the debate, please take your seats. Thank you for your understanding. Ladies and gentlemen, Please take your seats. [[The stand-up congressmen sit down.]] Thank you. Dear Parliament, First, the rapporteur, Minister Miklós Kásler, will speak. Before I give the floor to the Minister, I would like to inform you that there is a total time frame of 25 minutes for your speech in the debate and for the presentation of a possible closing phrase. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-10-06-29	Mr President, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen. The proposal for a health law submitted to Parliament is of great importance. Hungarian health care is extremely difficult, but it preserves an uplifting heritage and takes it with it in the future. This is the legacy of Ignác Semmelweis, Markusovszky, Korányi, József Fodor, Batthyány-Strattmann, Albert Szent-Györgyi and János Szentágothai. They are the excellent doctors and great people who, thanks to their professional knowledge, their discoveries, their vocations and their values, have laid the foundations, set examples and standards for Hungarian health care. Those who operate Hungarian health care and those who operate it today follow in their footsteps: the Hungarian medical tradition, the outstanding knowledge, the harmonious unity of ethical behavior and attitude for the benefit of sick people in all areas of health, in all situations, at any time, instinctively and consciously in changing circumstances of changing times. This sense of professionalism and its inherent responsibility determines the care and healing of patients, the continued operation and development of the care system. With this spirit, centuries of knowledge and experience, monitoring and correctly interpreting the news from the world, the often controversial communications, Hungarian health struggles with the unknown epidemic of the world in 2020, as we saw that many countries' health systems collapsed and collaborated during the first phase of the epidemic. In Hungary, the first phase was treated in a pattern. The next period also requires great physical and spiritual efforts from doctors, nurses, and health workers. They have the greatest burden of transmissions, the possibility of direct contact with the virus, the lead tiredness of hardened days and nights, the silent silence and noises of the on-calls, the treatment of serious patients, the overwhelming lack of lost lives, the experience of passing away, but also the soul-lifting and persevering catharsis of returned health and saved lives. [[10.20]] Since 2010, the salary arrangement of healthcare workers has been at the heart of the national government's programme. I quote the past, the legacy of the Gyurcsány-Bajnai period: the second Orbán government had to eliminate the immediate danger of the bankruptcy of the state in the first place. As soon as the country's economy was straightened out, the national government immediately began the gradual settlement of old financial debt to doctors and nurses, which today's presentation will complete. At the same time, the structure of the healthcare system in Hungary is being fully adapted. Measures and changes are taking place that will replace decades of lag, make it modern and European. It is worth considering the path behind us, the path we had to go through so far. In 2010, the left left left us an infinitely indebted health system that rolled a fragmented, billion-dollar group of government debt; the left, whose leaders introduced the visit fee at the same time, hospital daily allowances, privatised and privately managed some of the public hospitals, thereby giving patients access to raw business interests. At the last minute, we managed to prevent Hungarian health care from falling apart and becoming a waste of private professional interests instead of development. The government has been helping health recovery with consistent steps since 2010. It continues to replace subsidies taken from health care during the left-wing government, renovating hospitals and clinics throughout the country. In the language of the numbers: Since 2010, 91 rural hospitals, 54 clinics, 107 rescue stations have been renovated, while 23 new clinics and 34 new rescue stations have been built. The overall wage increase programme of health professionals is ongoing, and the next increase will be in November 2020. By 2022, a nurse will earn an average of two and a half times that in 2019. The salary of doctors and specialists has increased on average by two and a half times since 2010. The work of the paramedics was also highly acknowledged by the government. Between 2016-18 we have completed 67 percent wage development, which has been added by another 10 percent since 1 January 2018. As a result of professional measures, the number of healthy years in Hungary has increased significantly by 3.6 years since 2010. According to the report, the trend has improved for both men and women since 2010. At that time, men could count at 56,3 years in health, and now this age has increased from 60.4 years to 68.6 percent in women. In 2018 we developed and launched the foundation of the public health programme, the five national health programmes, the backbone of which is the most devastating of five groups of diseases: complex treatment of cancer, circulatory, musculoskeletal, paediatric and mental disorders, from prevention to diagnostics and therapy to rehabilitation, from structure to sick roads, from education to research. The guiding principle of the new health culture is prevention and its effects will occur in decades. This government is building the future, the quality of the lives of the generations after us, the physical and spiritual harmony that we are putting forward in this proposal. After 2018, we further expanded the excellent Hungarian vaccination system at global level, we took measures to further reduce nosocomial infections, we organised emergency trauma and vascular surgery, fertility care, family-friendly obstetrics, we supported group practice, we strengthened the organisation and cooperation of hospitals. The bill before us expresses the government's commitment to the comprehensive development of the Hungarian health care system and the fight against the epidemic. The government's appreciation could have been expected by health workers even before the outbreak. From the beginning of the first wave of the epidemic, the whole country has also lined up behind health workers and all those who have worked hard and have been performing in these trying times ever since. During the first phase of the epidemic, the government rewarded all health workers with a one-time recognition of HUF 500,000. In the second phase, he wants to express his appreciation even more strongly, as it is also due to the success of the doctors that Hungary has been successfully fighting the epidemic so far, and I believe that this will continue to be the case. The Hungarian doctors and nurses have already saved thousands of infected people, including patients who are in serious condition due to comorbidities. By now, the conditions are well understood to take a step forward in raising the wages of doctors and nurses. This has long been a long-awaited turn of events, which the government considers particularly important in the middle of the pandemic. We are aware that this is the basis for the current wage arrangement and is an essential condition for the comprehensive, competitive transformation of health care and for the further success of the national public health programme. [[10.30]] Our doctors, nurses, protectors of our physical and mental health are needed primarily here at home. I am pleased to report to this House that, in recent years, significant migration has been stopped, and even more and more people are coming home from the world. At the same time, our firm goal is to keep them at home by further improving their financial recognition and working conditions, offering attractive career images, as far as possible, because this country really needs them. The work of many months was covered by the three proposals submitted by the Ministry of Human Resources for the government meeting on 30 September, which became the topic of the talks of the Government-Hungarian Medical Chamber led by Prime Minister on 3 October. Of the three increases of the same level, the government accepted the alternative proposed by the Medical Chamber. In the hour of the joyful announcement, I would like to thank our colleagues, the Hungarian Medical Chamber and the EDDSZ, in the preparation of this decision, in the lead. In order to make progress, the government has incorporated some further proposals from the Hungarian Medical Chamber into the bill, and is also submitting a proposal for a breakthrough medical wage increase to the House. The proposal sets out the concept of a health service relationship, its staff and its ethical standards, as well as the framework for raising medical wages for the calculation of salaries and benchmarking. The proposal lays down rules on the recognition of the services associated with the legal relationship, rules on freedom, working time and the registration of persons in a health service relationship. On the proposal of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, it also includes the criminalisation of gratitude money, which prohibits and sanctions the granting or acceptance of unlawful benefits to patients and healthcare workers. Detailed rules concerning employment, salary, benchmarking, benefits other than salaries will be laid down by the Government after the adoption of the law. Dear House, The bill is of age, since it offers a new path for Hungarian health care in the long term. This will put an end to the uncertainty before 2010, the idea-like measures, the practice on the border of legality, the material and moral vulnerability of patients and health workers, the unfair situation that destroys everyone in both directions. After the steps taken so far, we can finally close the era when left-wing governments withdrew 600 billion forints from health care, closed high-quality healthcare facilities with patina and international standards, laid off 6,000 health workers, and finally took a month's wages from all health care workers and paid visits and hospital daily allowances to patients. It follows from the circumstances at that time that Hungarian doctors sought out a mass of foreign work, organised by at least one politician of the left-wing parties now entering the alliance for an intermediary fee, and the others tolerated and accepted it. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: That's right!]] The proposal is also of age-related importance because it offers another great step forward for Hungarian health care. According to OECD data, health expenditure per capita in real terms during left-wing governments decreased in Hungary alone in the whole OECD between 2003 and 2009, on average by 0.4 per cent per year, while in the period 2010-18, the growth rate in Hungary is the seventh highest in the European Member States, and this trend is increasing. The proposal is also of age because, in addition to the uplifting past and the disability of the present, the law is about the future. By 2023, according to the government's proposal, the current salary of a first-time resident doctor will increase to HUF 687,000, while a specialist with 40 years of professional experience will increase to HUF 525,000. This is the pay sign that the House can accept. Finally, the bill is of great importance because, in addition to legality and order, it ensures the free will exercise of medical morality and ethics after seventy years, relieves material interests from the science and art of medicine, restores its foundation, and restores a medical-patient relationship based on trust. At the time of the coronal virus epidemic, cooperation and trust are needed within Hungarian society, especially in health care. A large proportion of medical wages are also included in the consolidation of cooperation. This House's positive decision will lead to a breakthrough improvement for the benefit of our patients and potential patients. Therefore, I ask you to support the bill, not only the parties to the government, but also the opposition, and you must be part of the future. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen. In health care, it is now a principle that we heal not the disease, but the patient. I will add and declare that we preserve health and heal the sick. If we are talking about further development of health care, we are not talking about part-time tasks, but we are acting along a complex, long-term strategy that takes into account all aspects of the health care system, with the knowledge that what we are doing is serving the common good and the nation. [[10.40]] I thank the Prime Minister and the Government of Hungary for not only developing this strategy since 2010, but also consistently implementing it step by step. And I thank this House, on behalf of the nation, for providing the legal framework for this. Soli Deo gloria! Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-06-30	Thank you very much for the Minister's presentation. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to Congressman László B. Nagy, rapporteur for the Legislative Committee. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-31	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that last night, at the meeting of the Legislative Committee on 5 October 2020, T/13174. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report were adopted unanimously by 31 votes in favour on the basis of the exceptional procedure. Dear Parliament, The Government of Hungary is committed to honouring the work of Hungarian medical workers and doctors, which has been followed for ten years. Now, at the time of the coronal virus epidemic, we are even more obliged to express our appreciation for the sacrifices of Hungarian doctors, as they are also responsible for Hungary's successful struggle with the coronal virus epidemic. Since 2010, the Hungarian government has been helping health care recovery as a strong objective, consistent steps, constantly replacing money taken from health care during left-wing governments, renovating hospitals and clinics across the country, and launching wage increases for healthcare workers, as the Minister explained in detail. This effort is also illustrated by the increase in the wages of doctors and nurses in recent years, which was also mentioned by the Minister. Dear House, As a sign of appreciation for the work of Hungarian doctors, the government accepted the proposals of the Hungarian Medical Chamber and presented the bill before us, which aims to achieve a breakthrough in the increase in medical wages. The bill on the House's table introduces health care in the legal system and sets out the content and ethical standards of the status of persons in the healthcare service. In addition, it sets out the framework for the increase in medical wages, the calculation and certification of salaries, and also includes the service awards, the rules on leave, working time and the registration of persons in a medical service. The provision of the proposal to amend the Criminal Code, Btk., which has also been mentioned, but I also mention that this was included in the Chamber's proposal, which includes criminalisation of gratuity money in such a way that the facts of bribery and the acceptance of bribery are supplemented by the granting and acceptance of undue advantage. Ladies and gentlemen, Healing is a public service, an activity for the well-being of the community. With the adoption of the proposal before us, the Parliament pays tribute to the Hungarian doctors' standing in the fight with the world corona virus epidemic. On this basis, and on the basis of the unanimous vote of the Commission, I ask the representatives of all the political groups in Parliament to vote unanimously on this epochal bill. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-06-32	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to inform you that the factions have 30-30 minutes, and the independent representatives have a total of 8 minutes. In the first round of speeches, the lead speakers will present the group's position. First, I give the floor to Mrs Gabriella Selmeczi, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-06-33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dear Secretary of State, Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, The bill before us is historic. Since 2010, the government has been helping health recovery with consistent steps, and we have come to a very important milestone today. We are committed to honoring the work of health workers and doctors. We followed this principle before the outbreak of the Crown Virus, and now, during the outbreak, we would like to express our appreciation even more. We are aware of the incomes of doctors and health workers, but we also acknowledge their sacrificial work, the increased responsibility for providing health care. We are also aware that the worsening epidemic is putting increasing pressure on the profession, as the vaccine cannot be expected before the middle of next year. For the next seven to eight months, hospitals could be under even more pressure. Our aim is to give the Hungarian population the best possible healthcare service. Thanks to the stability of Hungarian doctors, Hungary has so far successfully fought with the corona virus epidemic. We would also like to thank the Hungarian doctors for their persistent work and the Hungarian Medical Chamber for their contribution to the drafting of the law. The Medical Chamber has made it clear, and the government has agreed that the superhuman work of doctors must be rewarded, and it must be acknowledged. We need to work together now. This is the moment when a breakthrough in doctors' wages can be achieved, which is why we welcome the package of proposals with unprecedented wage increases. Thanks to the proposal before us, doctors' average wages, if compared to 2010, will increase by about two and a half times. While an eight-year-old lawyer earned 280,000 forints a month in 2010, it is proposed to increase his wages to 772,000 forints. The Minister described in detail in the expoze the salary of a beginner doctor and a doctor who spent 41 years in the profession by 2023. This proposal includes a very important and also very significant change, and this is the release of gratuity money. This was also agreed between the Hungarian Medical Chamber and the Government. The probation period for newly admitted healthcare workers may be up to four months, which may also be important to them, and what is important is that severance pay is at least three years after work if the worker does not resign. This is also a positive change if you look at the details a little bit. The proposal also sets out the concept of a healthcare service and includes provisions on conflicts of interest. I think it is important to mention among the lines that if we have a Hungarian countryman who works as a doctor abroad, then, of course, the years spent abroad will be included in this pay table. So it will be worth counting for doctors working abroad that it is worth coming home, we think, more and more. In recent years, a number of measures have already been taken to increase the financial and moral appreciation of healthcare workers, not only doctors but also other health professionals. One of the steps to this end was the increase in wages in two steps in 2012 and 13. The overall wage increase programme of health professionals is currently under way, so in parallel with the proposal we have just presented, the next time there will be a wage increase in November 2020 and by 2022, a nurse will earn an average of two and a half times that before the wage increase programme. [[10.50]] The government and the Fidesz-KDNP fraction support all wage increases that have economic coverage and are backed by the increasing performance of the Hungarian economy. In recent years, health sector management has made every effort to improve the health situation, taking into account the country's economic performance. We are constantly replacing the money taken from health care during the left-wing government. We are renovating hospitals and clinics across the country, and, as we have talked about this several times, we have launched a wage increase for healthcare workers. I think there is a significant increase in the number of people who have chosen a medical career as a result of the measures. The number of medical diplomas obtained increased from 1000 a year to over 1600. Meanwhile, as Minister said in his exposé, the number of emigration doctors is constantly decreasing. This many people have never worked as doctors in Hungary. In 2019 the number of working doctors was 41,282, which is an increase of more than 7000 compared to 2010. Since 2010, the salary of health professionals has doubled, if you look at the current one. Consider an example. While a five-year-old nurse with an OKJ degree earned HUF 159 thousand a month in 2010, she now earns HUF 355 thousand, and from November this amount is now HUF 430,000. The average wage increase at the rescue service was 67 percent between 2016 and 2018. 170,000 health care workers received the HUF 500,000 special allowance this year, which we spent HUF 101 billion to cover. Ladies and gentlemen, I also considered it important that today, in addition to the strong wage increase of doctors, we should also talk about the wage increase of other health professionals, so that there would be no one in public life or public speaking who would try to turn doctors against other health workers, who would receive a wage increase. We also value health care workers. Moreover, the opposition constantly claims that the country is not prepared to deal with the coronal virus epidemic and that both the supply system and the epidemiological experts have been subjected to continuous attacks. Of course that's not true. In hospitals, patients with coronal viruses are treated according to a strong schedule, and healthcare workers are successfully fighting the epidemic. If we look at the statistics, healthcare in Hungary is one of the best performing countries in the EU. During the epidemic, it has been proven that Hungarian health care is working well, that healthcare workers can cope. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fidesz-KDNP fraction and the civilian government have been making up for the money they had taken from health care since 2010, providing care for caregivers, doctors, raising their wages, and not leaving them alone during the epidemic. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that the debate of the bill before us be characterised by cooperation and consensus, recognising the sacrifices of doctors. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-10-06-34	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László György Lukács, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-06-35	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Madam Secretary! Congressmen, fellow Members and Members Ladies! The thing is, I have a feeling about the author, and I don't see a representative of the Ministry of the Interior here. Because it's clear to me that this legislation [[Nacsa Lőrinc: He didn't file it!]] Even though you put it out there, there's a plate cap. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi and Lőrinc Nacsa intervene.]] This reflects the position of the Ministry of Interior in all its language and text systems. You can say otherwise now; you said that what is redesigning or transforming health care will be involved by the Ministry of the Interior, and they will also propose this. By the way, Sándor Pintér, perhaps I remember you telling me at your hearing last week that you were working on this. But it doesn't matter, Minister, you took it in your name, you submitted it, and here is this proposal that we are discussing. This proposal is best described as a cake. From the outside, it shows that this is a health wage increase, and there is an element in it. [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] But when we look into this cake, it's got glass fragments in it, and it's supposed to be chocolate cream, it's just tar, because there's so many measures in it that I think and a lot of people don't think it's gonna work out, and believe me, there's gonna be a fidesz congressman who doesn't dare to tell you what you think, but he does, too. [[Gergely Gulyás intervenes.]] What you have to go around from all sides are political excuses and professional excuses. Politically, however, the wording and context in which you placed it are very interesting. You said that the current increase in the wages of doctors should be made, and, by the way, we really thank all health workers in the first and second stages of the epidemic because of the epidemic. No, there's a reason why we should've done this ten years ago, even before that. And if you really believe that health workers deserve respect, then not only doctors, but all other health workers should have been sided with it, and then your logical conclusion and your argument in this case would be complete. In addition to the debate, low wages and even poor working conditions should have been done and done. It is also out of the question that the institution of gratuity must be disposed of somehow. It may be an old, bad legacy of this system, but we know that in a lot of places, it basically kept health care going. It is clear and very well formulated by the increase in salaries, medical wages and, I add, must be disposed of at the same time as settling the workers' wages, because this cannot stay so. But we have to make up for a ten-year lag, and, as I said, we have to make up for a lot more than ten years. According to Forma, perhaps one of the biggest objections to this is that if the government wanted a genuine, meaningful consultation and debate, and even if it could have been discussed in the summer, despite the fact that the Ministry of the Interior had prepared this proposal and tried to negotiate with the organisations on several occasions, the final proposal might not have had to be presented in exceptional circumstances. It would have been more appropriate for what you put on the table, which you put in front of Parliament on Monday, to be said that all civil society organisations, all organizations, Medical Chambers, Hospital Associations... After all, we can see that your carriers are going to be hospitals because of the state reserve. Tell me what's going on with the hospital debt. Where are those wages going to come from, how will the hospital leaders who have been placed in those chairs by your constituency presidents, by the way? Where do you get the money to do that? That's one of the questions. The fact that the Hospital Association should have been consulted at least should have been discussed with all the members of the Labor Chamber, one of the most fundamental ideas. The other thing that I think confirms is that the Ministry of Interior had a huge hand in this is the issue of the status of health workers. What is planned here in terms of the status of health workers can be said very clearly, whether a policeman or a soldier could live in the same way. What you've done has been influenced by the Ministry of the Interior, and I think it's a foreign concept for medicine, for healing. And maybe that's what we politicians are going to say here, and in a few weeks' time, and that's why you guys are going to meet with health professionals who think the same way. One thing is certain, the exceptional procedure would have been necessary if something had really justified it quickly and immediately, so from Sunday to Monday something must be resolved immediately, or from Sunday to Tuesday it must be resolved immediately. We know, and it's very important that we settle health pay. We know, and it is very important that we do something about gratuity money, because we have been debating it here in this Parliament for 10 years. Compared to this, all consultations were saved and comments were sent to organisations 3-4 hours ago. In fact, we got to the point that, on Sunday, the Chamber, by the time it saw this bill, had not changed it in essence, but, at least, it was reluctant to accept this bill as it was. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] If that is not true, then you will have to read the statement of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, read it and not just read between the lines, but ask them and, by the way, wait for what they will answer, and what will happen when this bill is adopted, because this, as we now have it, will certainly be adopted. [[11.00]] It is also a huge problem, as you have touched the system. They believe that the many problems that come from the structure of the health care system, from the control of medical and curative activities, you can now solve with one administrative tool and one injection of money. Hungary had a functioning structure, in which there was, by the way, a body that was supposed to check that healthcare hospitals were operating properly. I'm asking you, how many times did the SAO check that the terms were met? How many times have you checked with employers to see what kind of employment there is? How did you manage to let the commission and business wages get out of hand? So there was a structure that could have been tapped into with transparency, thought-out modifications. By the way, there was a time when they started this. I do not want to confront you with your former State Secretarys, but there are Members in this Chamber who have tried to take action in this direction and have worked as Secretary of State. But these restructurings, or at least to do something about it, they're dead for some reason. But it would have been a way to fix problems. Trying to solve the problem of the past period with an injection of money and a service relationship at least indicates that there is no concept of what to do with health and how to really be XXI. It's from the century, Mr. Minister. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In conclusion, it is also possible to see that by creating a transparent sick road, we would be much further ahead, along with increasing medical wages and professional wages, by putting the structure in order, as you are now trying to make a change of status, a life course that is alien to healing, and perhaps not appropriate, to people, which will have serious consequences. I think a lot of people are already thinking about which one to choose, no matter what the salary, whether it's private or public. You can't ignore that they're human, and they're gonna decide in some way. The restrictions that you want to put in your relationship may not be accepted, and it is not certain that public health will be strengthened, but it will be precisely that private health will be strengthened, and patients on the other side will perceive that the state is some kind of competition that will go away, precisely because of the payments, the costs in private health. What bothers me is that people who go there will use the service more expensively. I would like it to be a strong state, robust state health care financed by social security. But there is a system to do something about it, and now you're going to go into it with practically a market chaos that the market is going to solve, and you're probably going to have to deal with it, but maybe it's not right. However, it is absolutely certain that the current system, and it is safe to say what you are creating, is nothing more than health under a plate cap. I think it's so unworthy of the health leave we've had so far. Excuse me? The science and art of healing, medicine. What art did you see, Minister, when doctors at least didn't receive minimal freedom, and they didn't receive creative and healing freedom? That's what you have to think about, Minister. I think there will be no discussion that this legislation, just because it gives, gives good, raises wages, has to be voted on. But like I said, it's cake on the outside, and there's glass on the inside. And the sad thing is that even though we politicians are arguing about this here, Minister, these glass fragments will be bitten by the workers every day. They will have to deal with wage tensions, they will have to deal with the fact that the laborer's wages are far behind, and unfortunately, they will also miss not only the V4 average, but also what they expect, and there will be a huge difference between the doctor's wages. If they wanted to create and act well in this system at the same time, these steps should have been taken at the same time for all health workers. Allow me, Minister, to tell you that I have somewhat overheard some kind of personalization from your expo. The present bill includes gratitude money. It's time, Minister, to clear something up. You used to be a healer. You're an oncologist, if I'm not mistaken. Nod that yes or no, or deny it calmly. Mr. Secretary, have you, for example, accepted gratitude money in the past period, in the era you have whipped here, which you have said must be dealt with? Yeah, you gotta count it down. But then, you know what, Minister, speaking of personalizing, did you take a gratuity payment as an oncologist? Did you collect money from the most vulnerable, deadly patients? 'Cause that's what it's about. Mr. Secretary, you have to make a statement in this matter. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Shame!]] It's not a shame, it's the result of the personal nature of your minister. As for emigration, there was Mr Orbán sitting when he said why you were talking about emigration and working abroad as if he were from the devil. In fact, Minister, you were the one who was proud to say at a board meeting that you sent out your own employees, your fellow doctors, abroad to study. So, Minister, I want you to come clean about what you represent in this area, and you have accepted gratitude money, and then we can go back to how credible you are when this system needs to be fixed. Because there's a man who's been talking about patching things up who's made his own profit, and he's been a doctor baron for the past 20 or 30 years. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-06-36	I salute my fellow Members. I'll give the floor a moment, briefly to the Minister.
u2020-10-06-37	I will answer Mr President's question clearly in front of this House that I have not accepted parasolvency from a patient since 15 July 1992, not a penny. I sent my colleagues to the West to study and come back after six months or after a year, as has always been the case in the cultural history of Europe. I can barely remember one person who would have stayed outside. But they brought home what was best done at home and brought home the knowledge of what is not to be achieved in Hungary from the Western example. I don't want to go back to your personal role, talk to you about that, it's a matter of conscience, it's a private matter, if you will. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-06-38	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-10-06-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Lords of the Minister, Madam Secretary! Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I envy Jobbik's problem, according to which the biggest problem of Hungarian health is that the Minister of Interior is not here, and there are no experts, department heads, state ministers working on this proposal. You have now called this one of the biggest problems in Hungarian health care. But we understand, Congressman, what is the problem with the law is that it's ruining your business. [[Intercoms: That's right!]] He won't be able to take any more doctors abroad. [[Interjection: That's right! That's right.]] 'Cause there's gonna be wages at home, thanks to this law, and it's gonna be worth it for the doctors to stay here. Your business is broken by this law, so you are outraged, and you are against the factions who voted in favour of the summary amendment proposal yesterday on the Legislative Committee, and they said yes to this bill on the committee. It's personal, it's personal, it's personal, because it's ruining your business. We understand that, but we do not think that your personal business interests should be brought to plenary in this issue. And the tone you strike here and what you represent in your party is unworthy of the debate of this law. Congressman said there was no discussion. Congressman, this is the proposal of the Hungarian Medical Chamber. What we read and negotiate here is the proposal of the Hungarian Medical Chamber. You also said, Congressman, that you would find signs of a wage increase. If you look at the annexes to the law, if you look at the tables, you will see precisely from 1 January 2021, from 1 January 2022, from 1 January 2023, from 1 January 2023, the wage increases that I think we can safely say are historical, radical, unprecedented wage increases. And what you can tell me is that there are traces of clues in the bill. Congressman, this is the same fake news-making process you started months ago at Jobbik on the left. [[11.10]] It's a complication of the same fake news production that you're saying that there's only a clue. No, Congressman, this is a historic wage increase, a package that has never been in Hungary, and so should be handled by weight, Member, this proposal and not by personal interests. I would also like to thank the health care workers for their current standing. I think that during the epidemic, we cannot stress enough how much we thank them for their standing, the doctors, the paramedics, the nurses, the staff and the support staff, and, of course, the other workers and law enforcement workers you spoke so abusively about, you simply called them plate hats. You stepped on uniforms, policemen, soldiers, Congressman, that was you again. I think that we should thank the government that has been Regent since 2010, the health management, Minister Rehelyi, Minister Balog, Minister Kásler for the historic presentation. I think that the road we have been on since 2010 and which is a sort of thing we can never say is the end of the road, and we very much hope that it is not the end of the road, but it is a very important stop, I think that thanks to the health management in recent years, because we have seen the health system in 2010, how much the Gyurcsány-Bajnai government left us with a privatized, vulnerable health system. Obviously, Congressman Varga will explain why healthcare was destroyed before 2010, because if we look at OECD data, for example, Hungary was the only OECD country between 2002 and 2010, where health expenditure per capita fell in real terms. Hungary was the only such country when Secretary of State Korózs was in position when Gyurcsány was also in charge of the health government, then we could experience such pathetic and so low numbers. Hospitals were closed, 600 billion forints were taken from health care, 130 billion forints of debt was left in hospitals, and 16,000 active beds were charged. This is your balance sheet, your certificate. Six thousand medical workers have been dismissed, and we are now struggling to raise their wages, doctors, nurses. You left them on the side of the road, 6,000 medical workers. Doctors' wages increased by 29 per cent between 2003 and 2010, while there was 42 per cent inflation during this period. So these wages have fallen in real terms. It is also your certificate that they managed to raise doctors' wages by 29 percent in seven years, while causing 42 percent inflation in the country. Of course, the Minister has already told us about the visit fee and the daily allowance. It was your fever dream to pay for health care. Thank God, the Hungarians said a big, fat no. What about after 2010? We see that today there are 22 thousand more health professionals working in Hungary than a decade ago. In 2010, their number was less than 86 thousand, and today more than 107 thousand. This means that by a quarter, the number of health professionals increased by 25 percent over a decade. We also see that Momentum is always at the forefront of false news production on the left. Yesterday, for example, András Fekete-Győr, President of the Momentum, found that nurses did not receive or receive any wage increases. Of course, this is another left-wing lie, which fits into the Kamuvideo process, as one of the significant measures and results of the past years is the wage increase started in 2016 among health workers. Next time, on 1 November 2016, the wages of nurses will increase by 20 percent, from 1 September 2016, by 26.54 percent, from 1 November 17, by 12 percent, from 1 January 2018 by 8 percent, from 1 July 2019 by another 8 percent, and until 2022 there will be an additional 30 percent increase, so wages will reach a high average of three times the level of 2010. I think we've never said that we're where we want to be, but as you lie and hide these results on a systemic basis, as you try to falsify statistical data just so that you can attack the government, so you can kick a lot of health care workers, nurses, doctors, I think that's outrageous. At least accept the numbers, try to argue on the basis of the facts, because often your speeches are not in the context of reality, and when reality comes to light, and when we see these numbers, we can say, yes, it is a great achievement, we have to go further, we are not where we would like to go yet, but we have achieved very important results in recent years. Since 2010, more than a thousand ambulances have been replaced, 254 cars have been replaced in 2019-2020, worth nearly HUF 10 billion in the last year and a half. We could list the renovations, the additional resources for health care that Minister has already reported in his expo, but I think that everyone who goes to a hospital in the country can see for themselves that very, very important external changes have also occurred. I think it is also very important that such changes be made, that the infirmary, the waiting room, the ward or the operating room meet the XXI. The requirements of the century. I think that we have given a wide range of indications to the current proposal in recent minutes, my good fellow Member is less positive, but this is his personal interest, but we can say that it is historical, yet we can say that it is very forward-looking, because the launch of the grace money institution and the radical wage increase of doctors are such a common success and common goal that I think that such a bill should pass through the Parliament unanimously, should be voted unanimously, especially as a significant part of the proposals came from the Medical Chamber, was proposed by the Medical Chamber, and was drawn up together with the Medical Chamber. I think it is also a guarantee that things will really be created together with the representation of the government, the health government and the field workers. I think it is a sin in the bill to get radical wage increases carried away, the extent of that, I think, is quite forward-looking, because it can radically change the system that we have now known in health care. My fellow Members have said here about the reduction in the number of doctors leaving abroad, which is a very welcome result, but I still think that this bill may further reduce the number of people who wish to leave abroad, and that trend, while more and more health workers and doctors are working in Hungary, can continue to grow, and the appreciation of doctors and the introduction of the institution of unworthy gratitude money are all common goals that everyone in this Chamber should enjoy, even those opposition left-wing parties who criticize the proposal only because of hatred against the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches]]
u2020-10-06-40	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Korózs, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-10-06-41	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, I would like to start by saying that every bill on the salary increase is going to be voted on by the MSZP, no matter which sector it concerns, because I myself believe that those who are workers, whether this is a doctor working in the hospital, a general doctor or a tape worker, are entitled to a raise. That's one thing. The other thing I would like to anticipate is that I think that there should be two laws before this House, on the one hand, this bill tabled and, on the other hand, the budget law, the budget law that I hope should be amended, because this salary increase will have to be financed from something, since this year's budget was adopted last year and the budget for next year was adopted in the summer of this year. Consequently, I do not recall that this proposal was covered by this budget law. I would like to emphasise once again that, in my view, there should be two laws before this House. The other thing I resent is that it was presented in such a rapid manner and will be passed in about an hour and a half or two. [[11.20]] If the government's been consulting professional organizations, unions, chambers, the working and medical chambers for years, then I don't understand why they've given me such a short time. I understand that during yesterday, the competent organisations were given about three hours' notice. Nothing would have happened if we had voted on this proposal in the next week, say, two weeks, Tuesday. But let's look at the details, because we know the devil is always in the details. As Minister Kásler mentioned, and for the sake of historical fidelity, the bill states that the wage increase will be carried out in three steps, in 21, in 22 and in 23. Let us also note that the last increase in wages will take place in the year after the elections. This is a thirty-four-page proposal, which, as I said, I resent in such a rapid way, although we will support from the MSZP fraction, as I mentioned in the introduction, we support all wage increases proposals. At the very beginning, I would also like to say that this draft should be extended to those working at foundations and private service providers. In addition, I would also like to state that we are in favour of limiting the second job, but at the same time we consider it necessary to develop and differentiate it precisely. As far as I know, this hasn't happened at the moment, and I think the two should be treated together. We resent the fact that the draft is supposed to give us the opportunity to go down from the proposed basic wage, although it is also uphill, but I believe that this is unacceptable. Furthermore, the pay table does not address the differences in qualifications. Details of the proposal: this bill creates a new type of healthcare-specific employment relationship, known as the medical service relationship. This established the 16th legal relationship under which health activities can be carried out. In fact, this is a framework law that the government intends to lead to other employment relationships, or at least some of them, from health care. The proposal, honourable House, provides for the employment of healthcare providers with state and municipal reservations, their maintainers and healthcare providers with state or municipal reservations, and those performing health activities and activities aimed at ensuring the functioning of the healthcare provider and the operation of health services. The rules for activities aimed at ensuring the functioning of the health service provider and the operation of health services are set out by the government, I think, Minister, perhaps, and then laid down in a regulation. This provision excludes the application of a personal contributor, the scope of the law covers both health workers and health workers. This provision basically introduces a form of employment in the health sector that has replaced the main forms of employment so far. This, in my opinion, is a fact to be examined in several respects. Let's get in line. The proposal, as I mentioned, creates the 16th form of employment, on which, at yesterday's meeting of the Legislative Committee, Secretary of State Ildikó Horváth said that she would have a single legislation and background to health employment. If this is indeed achieved, health employment will indeed become considerably simpler and much more transparent. If this objective is not achieved, this will result in further inflation of health employment relationships. At the meeting of the TAB, Secretary of State Ildikó Horváth also said that they are already working on a change of minimum conditions, but it would be good if the representatives of the Government informed the Parliament that the new minimum conditions would mean the background rules for the functioning of this healthcare provider and the operation of health services, or that the latter would be regulated in a different regulation. I will look forward to Minister's reply to this raised problem. No collective agreement may be concluded with a healthcare provider covered by this proposal. These were the details I wanted to mention. It is also important to mention the rules on conflicts of interest in a uniform manner. The proposal contains very strict rules on what activities can be carried out under the service of health care. On this basis, the following can be said: free to carry out activities in addition to the medical service, the scientific, educational, artistic, literary and editorial activities are the intellectual activities under legal protection and the employment relationship of the foster parents, and the activities which may be carried out under the authorisation of the body designated by the government for further work, other activities in return for earning employment and remuneration. If you look at it carefully, the latter list includes virtually any other activity. In particular, it should be pointed out that these rules require the establishment or maintenance of a relationship with other public health services providers, but also with a private service provider, to be authorised. This therefore requires a commitment from the doctor to the public service, but it would be good if the conditions for granting the authorisation were set up at a legal level and an objective system of considerations that minimises public discretion. It is also interesting that, in the case of university hospitals, healthcare workers and residents are not covered by the proposal, but only healthcare workers. Overall, it can be said that the creation of a legal relationship, if it reaches the objectives described by the Secretary of State, is also eligible, that strict conditions of application cannot necessarily be opposed, by laying down the objective conditions for the grant or refusal of authorisation at the level of law. The other category in which I would like to go into more detail is the matter of the matter. One of the main points of the proposal is the increase in wages for health workers, but it is a problem that the wages of the right holders can be shifted from the table down to 80 per cent and up to 120 per cent. This therefore means that only 80 per cent of the amount in the table should be given to doctors, since the proposal does not contain any objective criteria as to when the derogation may take place, that is the discretion of the employer. The pay table provided by the proposal is identical, as you said, Minister, and several speakers, the pay table previously published by MOK, but this is not immediately introduced, the wage increase will only take place by 2023. Therefore, there is absolutely no mention of the fact that the pay table proposed by MOK should be paid as from 21 January. However, according to the government's statement, the Hungarian Medical Chamber supports the step-by-step introduction. Regardless of the scale, it should be assessed that the government is finally giving the wage increase that we MSZPs have been proposing for years. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Ooh!]] It has been said here several times, even on my part, in Parliament. It is important to note here that the proposal has not been accompanied by a proposal for a amending budget, and I have addressed this among the leading ideas, so there is a question as to how next year's budget will be used to achieve the wage increase. Only the following persons, as I understand it, will be entitled to the payment table: the doctor, the specialist, the dentist, the dentist, the pharmacist, the pharmacist, the pharmacist, the pharmacist, the government, the other person with a non-medical university degree and a medical service with a non-medical university degree and a higher education qualification. The latter, for example, I think are such as clinical psychologists, clinical radiophysicists, and I might add. Clearly, the blind can see that health care workers and nurses and paramedics have missed the pay increase. They are subject to another provision of the proposal, according to which their wages must reach the minimum wage, secondary or higher school education, or the guaranteed minimum wage in the case of a post requiring secondary or higher qualifications. Another rule for health workers is that it is the subject of a free agreement between the parties. Let us be clear, fellow Members. In practice, this means that their wages will not change, and the increase in the wages of nurses will increase according to the rules that have been submitted so far. There are other issues to be clarified here, my dear House. [[11.30]] When would you like to submit a budget amendment to the wage increase? I also look forward to the Minister's reply to this. Finally, let us look at the question of gratitude money. I think one of the most important things about raising wages is this problem. Although the government talks about graduating, it is limited. Although there is a general ban on acceptance of gratitude money in the Health Act, the Health Act specifically states that gifts not exceeding 5 per cent of the minimum wage can be accepted, 5 per cent every two months in case of inpatient care. So this allows for a gross gift of HUF 8,000. It should also be pointed out that the proposal does not contain rules on what will happen if the rules for the acceptance of gratuity money are violated by health workers. The problem is, therefore, that the possibility of giving gratuity money is institutionalised. At the TAB meeting, Secretary of State Ildikó Horváth explained that in this permitable rule, they meant small-value gifts that the patients give as a sign of gratitude, for example, as the State Secretary Balázs Orbán, who is also present, gave an example of the bouquet of flowers. The problem in this regard is that this, the Secretary of State's interpretation, is not supported by the text of the proposal, and there are no examples of justification for the proposal. In view of this, an item of less than 5 per cent of the minimum wage can be interpreted as cash, we know the economic definition that money is a physical object, which was not intended by the legislator on the one hand, and that it would obviously not aid the removal of gratitude money from the supply system, since it allows the legal collection of this amount. The legislative intention presented by the Secretary of State will therefore not be applicable in practice because of the shortcomings in the justification for the proposal, since while the text of the law is mandatory, the reasoning is mandatory for its interpretation, the words of the Secretary of State were not. It would therefore be appropriate to amend the relevant rules or the justification of the law before it enters into force. Special mention should be given to the new Bill of Rights on the facts of bribery by the proposal, which seeks to punish gratuity money. This, however, only penalises the provision of gratuity money, but not its acceptance, and the proposal also penalises the granting or promise of undue advantage. This fact is a very truncated fact, since corruption offences are usually a breach of an obligation or an additional requirement other than the granting of an undue advantage; it should be noted, for example, that there is a breach of the obligation of office. However, in the case of the present case, there is no such purpose, merely the granting or the promise of an unlawful advantage. However, according to the literature, the unlawful advantage is that which does not have a legal basis or the conditions for it, its reasons do not exist. However, in the case of a gift, this may have a legal basis, so the proposal chooses a very strange solution from this point of view, since, where appropriate, a gift, such as a title, may provide a basis for the granting of gratuity money, which will no longer be an undue advantage. The proposal also lacks the adoption of an undue advantage by a doctor. The question to be clarified here is also the scope in which the new Btk. rule is considered to apply, especially with regard to the notion of undue advantage, as I have just explained. My question, I think, is obvious: why is the proposal lacking in criminal law for the adoption of gratuity money? Dear House, Mr President, Finally, let us look at the status rules. The conditions of application and conflicts of interest to be introduced by the proposal are strict, which is likely to be a legislative decision in line with the MOK proposal, but is not fundamentally unfulfilled. However, some rules have not been consistently considered, for example, to exclude a doctor from the circle for possession of drugs, or cases where the relationship is terminated due to public indecencies, family abuse, violence or illicit pornography; however, for example, there is no taxatious case where a doctor, say, is in a drunk state of activity, operating or ordering. So it's not a disqualifying reason or a case. Apart from these, the objective pursued is to separate public and private orders, which can operate at the legislative level on the basis of the proposal, the other conditions of application such as probation, freedom, do not include restrictions, but rather are more flexible, in particular in relation to those engaged in teaching activities. Overall, they impose strict conditions on the higher pay table and sanction those who offer gratuity money. The proposal separates the private roads from the public roads, i.e. the tickles will cease to supply the patient in private, but they will then immediately cure the public resources and resources, and for this they will take the money from the private tariff. Summa summarum, my fellow Members, as I have said, the devil is in the details, and for the details, I believe, we must wait, but there is still a chance for Minister to reply here before the final vote. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2020-10-06-42	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Korózs. I now give the floor to Mr Zoltán Varga, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-10-06-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The first sentences must be thanks and thanks. We are infinitely grateful to the doctors, the health and social institutions, because they are the ones who stand up to this hellishly difficult time, they are the ones who carry on their shoulders all the burdens and pains of the Hungarian health system that has fallen to the brink of collapse because of the government. We can only talk about them with gratitude. Obviously, we need a structural, complete transformation of health care, that is what we all feel. We know it on our own, because we've all been to the hospital, and all of us who haven't, are really lucky. But I can also see from here, from the opposition benches, that the government is acting like a bad fake card player right now, in this case as well. With a poker face, he proclaims that he has the trump card in his hand, but he doesn't really have anything in his hand. He wants to shake over not only doctors, not only those working in health care, but also the entire Hungarian society. Then let's see what kind of cards are on this table, because the government says that it has consulted with the MOK, agreed with the advocacy organisations, and that the package of proposals before us is the same as their ideas. It took less than two days to find out it wasn't even close. The Hungarian Medical Chamber, referred to by the Government in the sweeping down of the Democratic Coalition's amendments, did not actually submit this package of proposals, and when you have modified your own package of proposals, it is not the same as MOK's package of proposals. The Hungarian Doctors' Union rejects the draft law that the government has laid down to such an extent that, in their view and here they would quote: it is an outrage that the EMMI has given four hours in the opinion of the draft law, which is crucial in the lives of many health workers. Are you listening, my pro-government representatives, are you listening? ! And they make it even more clear when they say: the government used the Hungarian Medical Chamber's payroll to trap the medical society. But let's see what the Hungarian Health Professionals' Association says. He cannot accept the proposal before us. The government is required to have at least 50 per cent wage increases in 2021 and to continue in 2022 and 2023 in the same way as the schedule and rate of medical pay arrangements. Gentlemen, you don't have the ace in your hand. [[What about the ladies?]] Gentlemen and ladies, you're not holding the jackass, you're holding the bottom of the pumpkin. [[Lajos Korózs laughs.]] Remember, yesterday, not so long ago, the government swept down DK's five very important amendments in a single motion, and I propose now not only to the members of the government, to the pro-government representatives, but also to the Hungarian society, to note these five points. [[11.40]] 1. The salary increase for healthcare workers should be 100 percent wage increase. 2. The doubling of wages must be carried out immediately, not by the government's promised foggy three years. 3. Doubles should go backwards to everyone from the beginning of July this year. 4. Double wages must be paid by all health workers, doctors, dentists, general practitioners, nurses, paramedics and all the staff. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: And for teachers...]] And 5. The doubling of wages should be extended to all social workers, including those of local social institutions. Once again, I suggest that all of you note the five amendments to DK, regardless of the cynical way that the government wiped out these proposals, but we will implement them as soon as possible and in the shortest time, and we will introduce them. And let us send a message to Viktor Orbán and the government he led, to all those involved, to health and social workers, that we will carry out the real wage increase that we have promised and that we will also be able to guarantee that it is of value. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I failed in eight years...]] And now let's look at what happened during your big card game in chronological order. Remember? DK put a 20-point package of proposals on the government's table on 4 April this year, which was part of it, and I am going to quote again: people in the health and social sector will receive a 100-percent increase. The government then swept this without a word, cynically, immediately off the table. It took six months for our message to eventually break through the cast concrete of the stadium in Felcsút, so that I wouldn't say ivory tower here, because that wouldn't be true. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Always this cynicism...]] for the first time in a long, long time, the Prime Minister realized that the stolen, crippled Hungarian health care system, whose doctors and nurses were driven away from this country, was on the brink of total collapse. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You 6,000 people...]] This, my fellow Member, is a situation that will be impossible to hide with billions of propaganda, billboards, serialisation. If that happens, and we are close to it, then Viktor Orbán himself realized that there is no god who can prevent the destruction of health care from burying the illiberal system of NER. Let's just say I don't really understand why it took six months to do that. Why did it take six months for the government to realize that without DK's proposal, there can be no chance of resolving the situation? [[Defiance from the benches of the governing parties.]] Let's just say, so far, you realize it could be a happy story, but it's not, it's not. No, because in this story, it is infinitely sad, ladies and gentlemen, I hope I am right in saying, Congressman Nacsa, that the Prime Minister and the entire government behind him remain unable to undress their true self. It's infinitely sad that they miscoded the clear message of the Democratic Coalition. So, instead of a straight road, they found another stinky path you've been on. So what happened? [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Will you vote?]] The country's self-proclaimed flu, like-hunter, head of the government announces this weekend that they are preparing for a breakthrough wage increase in health care, agreeing and accepting the offer of the Medical Chamber. And it didn't take two days, ladies and gentlemen, for the Hungarian Medical Association, the Hungarian Doctors' Union and the Hungarian Health Association to reveal this: the Prime Minister, as usual, did nothing but shape reality again in his own image. Do you know how they say that in Debrecen? You know what they say? Once again, the head of the government was very loud. [[Dr. László Pósán: That's not how they say... Defiance in the benches of the governing parties.]] Tell me more harshly, indeed, because there is no mention of what the Prime Minister announced this weekend, of course not. They didn't accept MOK's proposal. They're just puppetizing all of this now that it's happening like this, like we're used to it. They'll give someone something someday, just get everyone back in the yoke and keep it quiet. Well, that's the master plan, but that didn't work. And that's the problem, because there are things you can't do with lies, power, propaganda, war rhetoric, incantations, party loyalty or ankle-slapping party discipline, ladies and gentlemen of the government. And I have worse news than that! If you hadn't been fooled, as they say to us again, you wouldn't have thrown the Hungarian Medical Chamber, doctors, paramedics and all health and social workers over the board, if, at least once in your life, the word would mean anything to you, whatever it is, the country would still be in a hell of a tough spot. Because we're in the 25th hour, but you know it very well. Because every expert analysis, every model of disease shows that you, the government, have actually released the virus in the country. What we see is that they have neither the will nor the ability to solve the disaster you created; there is no real contact research, ladies and gentlemen; that the situation has long been out of control, that is what we see. What we see is that the exsanguinated health care was on the brink of the extreme burden caused by the Covid epidemic, that the Hungarian health system was on the brink of collapse, they could say anything; that in 2018, more people died of hospital infection in the country than in a road accident. Well, that's the big problem. That the lead doctors, the deluded nurses, and the humiliatingly low wage social workers who couldn't afford the promise of themselves, who were abandoned ten years ago, are the ones who have to stand alone, without your help, without any support in the coming very, very difficult months, perhaps in the most difficult battle of their lives, in the absence of any tangible and real government recognition and support, that's the problem. The fact that the real, 100 percent, immediate and full-scale wage increase, which, of course, would also be granted to the workers, could only mean the financial security and social-government recognition that they must miss now, in addition to many other things. For us, and for the people of this country, this could be the possibility that the exodus of health workers may actually slow down, and this is not just a propaganda act, it will be a voice, it will be a reality. And not only will it slow down, but it may eventually cease to exist. But that's not what we're talking about. And perhaps even that after ten years of destruction, the health system will recover, even though the stress, the lack of expertise, and the deteriorating institutional conditions could not help immediately. But no, this is not the way they chose; instead, the usual lying propaganda, half- and quarter-solutions remained. For doctors, nurses, paramedics, social workers, there is no other way. What will be left for Hungarian society? Well, that's the big question. Besides, I have to say, it's amazing that you guys are once again beating over such a structural bill, write and say: giving professional organisations four hours in total for any opinion. It is amazing that you are sweeping down DK's amendment proposals on the grounds that MOK, the Hungarian Medical Association's proposals, does not include them, although these amendments are absolutely clear to everyone, including doctors, that they are eligible. It is amazing that even a large number of doctors, including general practitioners, and perhaps dentists, are missing out on the huge wage arrangement you have announced; while they are very aware that the increase in the wages of the workers in November, which you have referred to, is simply consumed by inflation, because they will not slowly receive a kilo of potatoes from the market. And it's amazing that they beat it so hard that otherwise they know that all of this will make healthcare workers vulnerable, that it doesn't include doctors working in the business, because it forbids a second job. The limitation of secondary jobs is clear that it will lead to supply shortages, the impossibility or even the closure of rural hospitals. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You did this!]] Health workers are thought to be assigned to another employer for two years without any particular justification. This, you know what? It's a dictatorship; there's no such thing as the military, at best. Viktor Orbán may like to play with lead soldiers, but this is not the genre, I would signal. [[11.50]] And what is terrible is that the health care system is clearly maintained by the second jobs and the voluntary overwork. You're cutting off the road to this, too. This will have serious and terrible consequences. You know how I feel? That this whole package of suggestions is a little bit like the Titanic you guys stole the bike from, and it's somewhere over there, grinding corn on Felcsút, and what you guys drove to the iceberg, and what's seconds away from the wave tomb, I'd like to order you to paint clean. And it's not okay. Thank you very much. [[Laszlo Hajdu applauds. Nacsa Lawrence:]]
u2020-10-06-44	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Varga. Dear Parliament, The LMP Group indicated that two speakers presented the group's position. First, I give the floor to Mr László Keresztes, leader of the faction.
u2020-10-06-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I also begin by thanking everyone who works to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people with respect to their work. I think we all see how difficult it is. Unfortunately, we were once again faced with a shocking data, and it is clear that there were more people killed yesterday than ever before because of the coronal virus epidemic. I think it's definitely a shocking number. We can be grateful to everyone who works for the health of Hungarian people, and to all citizens who lead their lives in a responsible way, trying to comply with all the rules that were born to avoid problems. I think and have already spoken about this, fellow Members, that in such a difficult situation, we must also speak with a tone in such a parliamentary debate that is appropriate to this situation. Minister Kásler also referred to this, Mrs Selmeczi, but I would like to stop here. Minister Kásler said that we need unity and trust to defend ourselves. Congresswoman Selmeczi said that there must be cooperation and consensus in this debate. By the way, I will endeavour to read this from our speech, but I would also ask the government to do so, even if it seems a vain fantasy. I have to refer here in the last few days and even today, to pro-government, government speeches. Also today, Minister Kasler, in the debate on such an important issue, spent relatively much time criticizing the various opposition organisations in his expoze. I think that at least in this debate this could have been avoided. We all remember what's been happening here in the last few years, what happened in the spring session. They practically ventured to the point where they said that opposition representatives were on the side of the virus, did nothing, even hindered protection. I think it's unworthy of a situation like this. I would add that, on the opposition side, there were also unworthy statements. I think that self-criticism must be practiced by all sides, everyone, and that we should try to be worthy, indeed, in terms of the weight of the problem and with such a tone in the debate. Obviously, we don't have any illusions, you're set up for a propaganda system, an operation that constantly violates the opposition, and you're trying to bridge the problems with this propaganda. However, there is one thing I would like to ask of you. I ask that, if the opposition is constantly attacked and criticized, professionals should not be harmed or attacked, that the opinions of professionals should be heard and taken into account. Mr. Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister of State, made an unacceptable statement last Friday, and I would add that it is unusual even for him, on one of the televisions this morning. Specifically, he accused Professor Ferenc Jakab, head of the Coronary Virus Research Group, of alarming him. Professor Ferenc Jakab said not long ago that while the decisions were quick and correct in the spring, unfortunately we do not see this now, and the numbers are very gone and extremely worrying. Then later, Professor Ferenc Jakab also said that if we rush into our loss as fast trains with such a tendency, we will quickly drain the health capacities and cause trouble. Mr. Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, replied that there were such alarms in connection with the first wave. I think that this is completely unworthy and irresponsible. Congressman Gulyás is not listening, so I would ask Minister Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State, not to allow himself to make such a statement again. I also ask you, I ask the representatives of the government present to accept the advice of professionals. Indeed, in the spring there were strict restrictive measures, I recall that they were unanimously voted by all sides. These were necessary. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári intervenes.]] The various restrictions and the rest, I think that there has been a debate in these cases, and we have always said that there is no strict measure that we do not support, and this has been the case. But it's very important, isn't it, that you can see that the second wave of the virus came back with much greater force, that the economy is already in ruins, on the brink of collapse. I ask the present representatives of the government to see that this is because your series of economic protection measures has been insufficient. That is why many have been in such a situation that they have practically lost their jobs and have no longer received any support. That's why we see shocking economic numbers, and that's why inflation and all that. But the correct answer to this is that appropriate economic measures are taken, not if restrictions are weaker and if the epidemic is actually released. So this is a very serious responsibility. I think that it is necessary to adapt to the situation and that the much stronger, much more extensive economic protection measures that the LMP fraction has proposed on a number of occasions should have been adopted at the time. But turning to the health situation in particular, the debate was instructive here too, and I think that the most important thing now is to talk about this issue and what can be done now in this situation. Obviously, there will be discussions for years after that on what has happened both in terms of health and in the economy. However, I would also like to refer here to what my fellow opposition Members have already referred to, that there has been a huge, shockingly irresponsible and delay in the last ten years. Congresswoman Selmeczi said that since 2010, the government has replaced the resources that previous Balliberal governments have withdrawn. Minister Kásler has now said in the Expo that since 2010, the government has been at the forefront of wage increases. I understand that you're standing in your front space, but why didn't you take action in time? They're now referring to the medical board's requests, suggestions. That's what we've been hearing for a long, long time. If you had acted on the proposals of professional representatives, such significant wage increases would have had to take place already in 2010, when you were two thirds on the government, and there would not have been a tragic shortage of professionals, a shortage of workers, which unfortunately is now typical of health care, and which will have very serious consequences. I don't suppose you're trying to argue that either. Minister Kásler also replied to a question from another opposition, perhaps from Mr Luke, in a debate on the first wave, that this work could not be redeemed with money. I think that you have reversed this somewhat hasty statement by the Minister since then, because there is a huge need for a wage increase. We have also heard a statement in the debate, perhaps from Minister, that the first wave was handled in a pattern. Now, obviously, I do not want to take the debate in this direction, but here the various medical benefits have been stopped, and the rest have caused an enormous number of problems; there have been no treatments, no interventions, which have caused waiting lists to grow and a terrible strain on doctors, general practitioners and pediatricians. Obviously, we have also had these debates. So I was surprised that Minister Kásler held an expo or part of his expo as if he had just taken an oath as a minister, not a minister who had been regent since 2010 since then would not be speaking in the government as a government minister in an extremely serious situation, and in a situation where we can say that this measure was actually taken by the government in a crisis, and I would add, and I think it is very important to stress that it is indeed an extraordinary procedure, leaving no time for proper conciliation. So I also feel that this proposal has come in on a fire-fighting basis, and I simply find it hypocritical for you to say that this is what you are about to do. This is underlined by one of my fellow Members' points that, indeed, the very important other leg of this proposal, why the amending budget did not come in on time. So if you were prepared for this, then why wasn't this budget this year, why wasn't this step included in next year's budget? So it can be seen that this came in as such a panic reaction in response to the situation. With this, it's obviously very, very important to raise wages. Of course, this proposal must be voted, the LMP faction will vote, but my fellow Member will also give a detailed description of the additions, the proposals and the criticisms regarding the details for which we still feel there is a need for action, so for this proposal, further additions, further decisions and, where appropriate, amendments will be needed. So we fully agree and support a significant increase in wages for doctors. We will, of course, vote for it. We also agree perfectly, old debt, that we must eliminate the gratuity money and face the blatant differences that we have in terms of wages. At the same time, we need to emphasise that, and we will also stress that this step should be extended to health professionals. There's no room for wage tension. We see in the system such a missed, significantly smaller wage increase, but this has to be considered, and indeed, as has been said, as interest representatives demand from the health professionals, they should be supported by a similar wage increase, and it is in everyone's elementary interest. [[12.00]] And this is also a very, very, very many years delaying step, and this must be done immediately. Therefore, we will certainly propose this measure in the coming days. And my fellow Members have also pointed out that it is quite shocking and unacceptable that workers in the social sector, working in the same front line and doing similar work in many respects, have been completely left out of this. Therefore, this cannot be put off by the government, the employees of the social sector must also be valued, adequate financial appreciation and adequate working conditions must be given. You can't delay this decision. And indeed, here are some of the problems that the congresswoman will discuss in more detail: the municipalities are in a bled state, they have not received the proper information, there is great uncertainty, there is also a need to provide for this; the situation of the general practitioners must also be resolved; and indeed, the budgetary implications must be taken care of as soon as possible. I hope that one of the ministers, perhaps Minister Kásler, will talk about budgetary implications and when the government will take action to change the budget. I would very, very much like to ask in advance that the measures that we are talking about here, and not from Members, but from the interests of interest, and therefore the proposals for a greater wage increase for health professionals and a wage increase for social workers, are already planned for the next budgetary re-allocation. Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President.
u2020-10-06-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Crusade Leader. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn.
u2020-10-06-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Our group also considers it important to raise the wages of doctors, although we do not consider it fortunate that such essential legislation should be adopted and negotiated in the death of a horse. We are saying this because neither the trade unions nor the opposition groups have had enough time to respond or possibly submit amendments to the bill. Thus, several people in the press have made this observation that they only had a few hours to react. The law introduces a new concept, the health service service. From now on, healthcare activities can only be carried out in the context of such a legal relationship with a public or municipal service provider. It will be inconvenient to work on a second job in private care if the full-time job is in the public sector. As a result, the relationship between private and public health is expected to change. Many have expressed their concern that many doctors may go to the private sector, and so public health will see their absence. The law is divided into years and includes the wages of doctors, specialists, dentists, pharmacists, and this increase is made in three steps. As of January 1st, there will be a prison for gratuity money, 5 percent of the minimum wage may be the value of the gift if the patient sees that he wants to give the doctor who treats him as a gift. Workers in the sector are concerned about two years of secondment; one year and another year may be extended. The main concern is that doctors can be assigned even remotely from their homes. In this connection, the head of the institution must be asked, but we do not think that the head of the institution will do so, that he will not let the doctor go, and that the worker should be informed of this secondment ten days earlier. I'm guessing it's primarily because of the epidemic or because of it. The employee's salary will be increased by 20 percent and cannot be reduced, as fortunately it has been removed from the law and amended at the TAB. I think that's very good, and we were very happy about that. The law includes recognition of service time, which is also a very important step. In recognition of 25-30-40 years of service, these persons will receive a monthly allowance. But I have to say again, it's very important that I don't think there was much time to comment. I believe that there has been some kind of opinion from the Hungarian Medical Chamber, but they are not only important players here, but also trade unions, for example. We believe that because of this, since there was so little time for this opinion, Parliament will have to negotiate a series of amendments in the future. This is also confirmed by the TAB meeting, where more than twenty amendments had to be made, some of which were more of such technical improvements. The coronal virus epidemic has clearly shown that the current system is unsustainable that the transformation is absolutely necessary, and the problem is that there is a shortage of doctors and an ageing medical society, which is particularly true of the general public. There are small regions where the average age of GPs is over 60, but we also have to face the fact that there are fewer and fewer doctors and those working with them. Many went abroad to work because they felt that they were not paid. Why are we saying that there are losers to this bill, and who are they? Especially those who have been left out of this law. It may not be fair for this law to have the ones I'm going to list, but I think they could have been a part of it: nurses, graduate nurses, assistants and other people working in health care. I know, Minister, that a kind of wage arrangement has also begun in this sector. That is true, but wages started at such a low level that even with this wage arrangement is not appropriate. Although it is a big increase compared to where the wage level was, we still do not think it is appropriate, and we think that this will lead to an even greater gap between the wages of doctors and the wages of nurses. We'd find an ethical difference much better. Its losers are also those who have missed out on social workers. I think it is quite difficult to separate certain actors in the social sector today, such as those working in the care of the elderly, or those who are by the bed. It's hard to separate medical personnel. Many health workers and, more specifically, health professionals work in the social sector, and we believe that their wages are not competitive either. I have spent a few years as mayor myself, and I regret that many of the elderly workers have only the guaranteed minimum wage, thanks to this fantastic pay table in which public servants pay. We know that all that has happened for years is that if it does not reach the minimum wage or the guaranteed minimum wage, in this case it is adapted to this, but we also consider this to be very few. In addition, who I think have been left out, they are business doctors, GPs and GPs, because the law does not cover how GPs, for example, will raise this high wage. I hope that action will take place later, let us say that we do, because GPs are as much needed as other actors in health care. I live in Baranya County, and it is also typical that in many villages it is very difficult to fill the GPs, and even older ones are the GPs, who are fortunately still able to do their job, but for them, if the pay table is introduced, their practice funding will often not be enough to pay or calculate this salary for themselves. In addition, it is important to remember pediatricians. The civil servant's payroll is going to break down, too. We see another example of how to empty the civil servant sector, don't we? I think this has started and it is constantly showing that this will continue. If that is the aim, then I must recall that the health and social pay table could be merged. I believe that not only the tasks of the health sector but also of the social sector have been strengthened during the coronal virus, the signal system and the care itself have become increasingly important. We will put forward a decision on these matters in any way. It is a proposal for a decision and not a proposal to amend it because there is something in this law that does not affect that law, and because of the shortness of time, we did not have the opportunity to do so. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-06-48	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hohn Krisztina. I now give the floor to Mr Sándor Burány, the lead speaker of the Group of Dialogue.
u2020-10-06-49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Lords of the Minister, Dear House, Ladies and Gentlemen, Minister Soli Deo Gloria said a few minutes ago at the end of his expo, and that was his sentence, more precisely his quote, which I can agree with without any leftovers. But, if I may, Minister, I can no longer assure you of this agreement with regard to the rest of your exposé, the fate of the bill and the content of the bill. [[12.10]] Not even because, Minister, whether we are religious or not, the basis of our judgment here on Earth is what we do, what we do, not what we refer to. I would have liked it if, in the spirit of this, Minister, Mr Orbán explained in detail the repeated changes to the Government's opinion within a few days, because we are in a position to see Minister's exposé in relation to a submitted bill, which does not comply with what Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said a few days ago, does not comply with the agreement that he concluded with the Medical Chamber and I might add. But let's look at the time course of the bill, the history of its submission. When Viktor Orbán announced that an unprecedented wage increase would take place and that the government would accept the proposal and pay table of the Medical Chamber, I said, finally! In more ways than one. Finally, because, on the one hand, this proposal is in line with a number of opposition groups' amendments tabled several years ago, which you have always swept off the table and always debated. It is not a faction, not a fellow Member who has submitted a proposal for radical wage increases not only for medical workers, but I will address this, these proposals have been swept down, and when I heard Viktor Orbán, I thought that it was then! There is, however, scope for cooperation, but there is scope for cooperation, and yet there is the possibility of identity of positions when it comes to very important issues. By the way, even if it's not important, let's not rule it out. What made me happy about Viktor Orbán's sentences was that these words were also a change in another harmful practice, namely in practice that you would ignore or even sweep off the table, accompanied by arrogant sentences, the proposals of professional organisations or advocacy agencies whose activities are in some way unwelcome to you. That's how it was with the Medical Chamber. When the Medical Chamber elected a new leader, who was known to be not necessarily a pro-government doctor, but an excellent doctor and a medical chamber effort, from that moment on you attacked this Medical Chamber, from that moment on, the proposals of the Medical Chamber were ignored in order. At the time, after Viktor Orván's sentences, I thought it was right to think that there had been some change in this field, too; you are not now looking at the fact that you are the head of some civil society organisation or the activities of the civil society organisation itself are kind or not kind to you, but you are looking at whether this is a professional proposal or not. They are finally capable of social dialogue, to which they have so far been spectacularly unable to accept these proposals, they are capable of professional debate, they are able to compromise professionally; they are also able to present these compromises to Parliament in the form of legislative proposals. But then something changed, because yesterday this bill was presented in horse death, which in a few hours turned out to be neither what Viktor Orbán said nor what he proposed in the Medical Chamber. Because the text of the bill that you have tabled, which lies before us, which we are debating, would have allowed wages to be hijacked by up to 20 percent compared to this pay table. Downstairs, Minister. I'm talking about the original bill. [[Gergely Gulyás: Upward too!]] And up. So, plus or minus 20 percent, but I'm talking about what didn't suit the Medical Chamber, not what the Medical Chamber's position is, by the way. So he didn't comply, this possibility of hijacking by 20% or deduction downhill didn't correspond to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's sentences, nor to the pay table proposed by the Medical Chamber. If Minister had told you his expo yesterday, would you have said soli Deo gloria? And what happened in a few hours? What happened until the start of the TAB meeting, 6:00 p.m.? What made you realize that the bill tabled in this form is unacceptable? And there is an amendment which eliminates this error, but this is an amendment; I hope you will support it with your vote in a few hours' time when we vote on this bill and its amendments. Nothing else has happened in my reading, Minister, but that they have been caught. Even though they tried to cheat this complicated bill very quickly, a bill with a number of far-reaching consequences, a few hours were enough for the professional organization to realize that they had been tricked and expressed. That's why they took that back. Anyway, I'm happy for you, and I'm glad you took it back. It would have been even better to present it in the way Viktor Orbán said it would have been better to present it the way the Medical Chamber suggested, without any loopholes or tricks. Well, that's not something we should be arguing about right now. The other thing I'd like to add to that. The opposition's proposals, including the Dialogue's proposals, were generally aimed at health wage increases. 'Cause let's not forget, it's not just doctors that have to be appreciated. Those tired paramedics who travel tens of miles away must also be valued for being more accurately guided beyond their time, such as a coronal virus test, or also exhausted nurses who normally operate the ventilators and those who usually work in the health care sector. Our proposals in the past and, as a consequence, I am afraid will continue to serve to ensure that their increase in salaries is consistent not only with the legislation in force and then in November, as was said here by my pro-government fellow Members, but also in a similar spirit, to the same extent, as the doctors were paying. And here's my next comment. Despite a number of forward-looking proposals in the area of wages, there is also a cause for concern in this bill. In particular, doctors may be assigned to a service station for up to two years, which is part of the 21st century. At the most, it is acceptable for the military in the first century. In health care, more modern methods should be used, not this military leadership. Rather, a system should be designed and operated where the system itself ensures that there is no absence of a general practitioner from a locality, there is no lack of a doctor from a hospital, nurse, auxiliary staff from anywhere in the country. And not that, where there's a shortage, we're going to send it from somewhere else, where it shows up in excess. Not because a healthcare system based on such a rigid management system may not be able to stop the medical emigration despite a wage increase, since if someone finds that he has to work away from his place of residence for two years, he may choose to go abroad if he has to work away from his place of residence. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear House, We therefore have a bill before us, which, in its section on the pay table, mainly contains elements that can be supported in any case and without debate. However, we are terribly sorry that they have not lied to you, even through a series of tricks, instead of simply submitting what Viktor Orbán has promised and what the Medical Chamber has proposed; and it contains a number of elements that make the operation of health care still a concern. We welcome its forward-looking elements, and we will try to correct its disquieting articles and proposals in the future. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-06-50	Thank you very much, Congressman Sándor Burány. Dear Parliament, Now, the first independent congressman to make a statement can speak for up to eight minutes. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. [[12.20]]
u2020-10-06-51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, What are the introductory sentences of this bill? The government is committed to honoring the work of Hungarian medical workers and doctors. He followed this principle even before the outbreak of the corona virus, and now, during the epidemic, he wants to express even more appreciation for the work of doctors. In the bill, the whips will come, because there is the two-year assignment, there is the need for the doctor to terminate his private order, even though you all know that the capacity of the public health system does not allow the care of patients without private health. There is in the proposal that you cannot accept or set a rate of gratitude, only you know that most institutions benefit from this kind of gratuity money. Those of you who will ever look at Gábor Zombor worked in the clinic, if anyone, then he and many of you know that very well. It's not enough to talk about doctors, it's just that there's the therapists. Heroic struggles with the epidemic areas, surgery, obstetrics, children's hospitals, children's classes, labs, and intensive therapy departments. Why don't we talk more about them? If you're putting your goals on such a noble footing, why do you want to establish this health service relationship now? Why in the middle of an epidemic? Now all we had to do was talk about wages, and when the epidemic goes away, we'll talk about the legal bases. Then the question of gratitude money: the Minister will perform the good Samaritan here, even though if you know it, it comes from an institution where doctors had an exchange rate, even a week before death. But in this House, you who work in the health care system, but 30 years after the change of regime, talk about gratuity money like that, and I don't even know what it was, in a way. Do you have any idea how the health care system staff are working today? ! Do you know that the way public health can provide capacity is for a doctor to do one and a half shifts and do two professional shifts for a worker? Because maybe the anesthesiologist in his own hospital will finish the job and go to another hospital and continue there, and if he can't do that, then the other hospital won't operate. Even with this increase, the workers do not receive an income that would give them a decent living, so they will continue to work elsewhere in their spare time; they may not even be in the field of health, but you cannot deny them this opportunity. The proposal is, by the way, full of word errors, drafting errors and term technicians, which are not appropriate, so I find it difficult to imagine, Minister, that this would have been done for months. It's a fabrication that was thrown together in a few hours, based on your previous experience, and that's what we're discussing now. If the doctor can't do a search elsewhere, right, that's what they're saying, then it's not possible for him to go back to his hospital after his work hours and operate or give birth instead of the on-call doctors. . Well, that's not possible either, because we're never gonna talk about it. It is very good that freedom must be granted, and we are very happy about it, and there is a deadline until 2023. Can you imagine what the accumulated freedoms mean? There will be a doctor or a professional who will be on leave for six months. Who's gonna make up for their absence? I hope that, if such a reform is already being made, they will follow the principle that the period of service is calculated by how many hours they actually spent in their working hours. Fifteen years ago, the European Court of Justice ruled that working hours should be calculated on the basis of full-time and not on the basis of working days. I was hoping that if you were already making a reform, this reform would really be in the interests of doctors and professionals. And my favorite is the rating. Who's gonna do this, what are the detailed rules? Or is it going to be done by someone who doesn't know who does it again? I ask you not to put such proposals into this House for the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ranks of Jobbik and the independent.]]
u2020-10-06-52	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea. I'd like to say that the two of you would like to speak as an independent. Let's schedule the time so that it's not exactly four minutes. I give the floor to Mr János Bencsik first.
u2020-10-06-53	Thank you very much for the floor. First of all, the Hungarian government has paid off an old debt by paying off doctors' wages, and those involved deserve it, and it is very right that they get it. I would like to refer to the words of the Fidesz MEP Gabriella Selmeczi, who said that he asked us not to turn the different health professionals against each other because of different wages. Now I'd like to tell you that you're making the laws, dear members of the government, well, don't ask us to count on a law that you've made... that someone will get double the wage increase so far, someone will get 20 percent more, and someone will get nothing. That's your decision, and you'll take responsibility for that. Let's get one thing straight. The fact that you have made this increase in wages in the hallway of an economic crisis, under ten years of unprecedented inflation and public finances, and in contrast to the last ten years, when your propaganda says that the economy has soared, you have done nothing, it proves nothing but that there has been a source for this before, only what has not been the political will. You didn't take the salary increase in health care because you didn't know, because that means you had the resources to do it, but you lacked political will. But speaking of collaborating, everyone here is talking about collaborating, and I'm asking you, why don't the GPs get anything? Why don't you raise the wages of health workers, intensive caregivers, rescue workers? Who will take their place if they migrate abroad or literally fall down beside the sickbed? The school police? Who are they gonna transfer? There are also a number of civil servants in the country who have not been thought of: teachers, teachers, kindergarten workers and daycare workers, cultural workers, officials, local government workers, law enforcement workers or employees of the social sphere, who are fighting the fight like health workers for a net HUF 130,000. I would like to ask you to think of them, to gather yourselves together, and to provide a reasonable wage for everyone who provides public service in this country. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-06-54	Thank you very much, Congressman. I'll give the floor to Secretary Gergely Gulyás for two minutes.
u2020-10-06-55	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I just want to answer two questions. One is what our fellow Member Burány mentioned, where, by the way, we are pleased to note that the dialogue fully agreed with the speech of the soli Deo gloria. We're happy for you. We're very happy for you. But the legislation on the rules of secondment is clear, so the details will be laid down in a government decree, and we will discuss with the Medical Chamber in this regard, so the rules on secondment should be taken into account now, because the detailed rules will be drawn up in consultation with the Chamber. And the GPs: this law is not really about the GPs, but the GPs are going to be there. So the government will also adopt legislation on general practitioners, where reform is not needed primarily to the same extent as what we believe is necessary in order to deal with the epidemic situation in the health sector. But the changes there are also favourable to them... it will allow more favourable wages than is currently being made by this regulation, which will be presented by the government. These are the two questions that I wanted to respond briefly to, and after I have some time left, let me say that it is very strange for both the Jobbik faction and Mrs Hohn to stand up and start criticizing the exceptional procedure after she voted yesterday. Well, ladies and gentlemen, when we voted yesterday on an exceptional procedure for this House, it is an independent vote on the procedure, regardless of whether you otherwise support the bill or not. If someone voted for this yesterday and thought it was right, it would make himself and the faction that he, by the way, represented in Parliament rather frivolous if, after yesterday's vote in favour, he doubted the procedure. Or you'd have to explain why you changed your mind in one day. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-06-56	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Before I give the floor to independent representative Bana Tibor, you have a thin minute and a half, and I announce a time frame transfer: the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party on the relationship of health services T/13174. 10 minutes of the remaining time frame for today's sitting during the consolidated debate. The faction leader signed by István Simicskó. And now I give the word to the leader of the group László Keresztes, he applied for two minutes, and then I can pass it on. Here. [[12.30]]
u2020-10-06-57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just a quick reaction to Minister Gulyás: when Krisztina Hohn and other fellow Members challenged the extraordinary procedure, with the fact that, of course, we voted in favour of it, they thought that we should have thought earlier, that the government should have woken up sooner, and that this legislative proposal should have been prepared sooner, so let us be clear. However, I would like to ask the Minister, as rapporteur of the bill, that several questions have been raised here regarding the other leg, the amending budget, what we can expect, when we will take action, and under what conditions, under which framework this amending budget will take place, and that he can expect the appropriate increase in wages for health professionals, the appreciation of social workers, to be dealt with by this budget proposal, and whether he will also manage it. We look forward to the answers to these questions as well. Thank you.
u2020-10-06-58	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I am now giving the floor to Independent Congressman Tibor Bana.
u2020-10-06-59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome, of course, that substantial progress is being made and that wage increases are being made for doctors and health professionals, but it is very important that I make certain additions to the bill before us. After all, unfortunately, the government has forgotten about the workers in primary care, although the Minister has just spoken about this, and it is glad that there are also discussions and discussions in this regard. I think that it would be important for both GP and dental assistants to settle their situation, because the primary care workers have been waiting for a decade for them not only to be equal to other health professionals in terms of their duties, but also to be able to catch up on their wages. There has been a situation behind us in a decade where thousands of GP or dental assistants earn a minimum wage for years or decades. I think that there is a need for a substantial change in this area, too, even because it is unacceptable to point out to employers when they receive funding from the National Health Insurance Fund Manager in this case. I hope that Minister will also hear the signals on this, which have also been received by professional organisations. I also submitted a written question in this direction. What I think is very important is the settlement of the situation of social workers, because they are also doing a work of recognition that makes me believe that they also deserve substantial material appreciation in addition to moral recognition. I hope that this topic will also be discussed in the Parliament during the next period. For my part, I will do everything in my power to make it so. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-06-60	Thank you very much, Congressman Tibor Bana. Dear Parliament, Any further speeches may be made within the remaining timeframes and may be monitored on the meeting room table. First, I would like to give the floor to Mr Gábor Sombor, Member Fidesz, in the list of speakers that have been announced.
u2020-10-06-61	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, We have been listening to this debate for quite some time now, and I think that the position expressed by the various factions is beginning to come to a common ground, which is an extremely important piece of legislation. Let me also talk about a few aspects that may not have been mentioned and, in the current situation, it is important for us to know. This Parliament represents the Hungarian people. The most important thing at present is to protect Hungarian citizens in the epidemic situation. This bill clearly prioritises the public health care system, the risk community-based insurance system, which has been clearly proven in recent times, and not only in Hungary but also in different foreign states, to provide only safe and high-quality care in cases of exceptional circumstances. In addition to this so-called health policy or political decision, there is the epochal, historical and rightly called medical wage development, which as a doctor and health worker may be one thing that I am happy about and fully supportive of. Here I would like to draw attention to another circumstance which also makes this proposal ageless in addition to the many, many criticisms that we have received. I've been dealing with the health system and its structure for a long time, I've seen a lot of studies, I've been involved in it about how to transform health care to be good. There was never a corner point in which there was consensus. This is the first element of the last twenty to thirty years when the scale of the medical wage agreed and defined jointly by the Medical Chamber and the Government and the principle of the abolition of gratuity money will be accepted by consensus from both the medical and the government. These two points give rise to changes in health care, taking into account the priority of the public supply system, which will provide both patients and those involved with clearer conditions, better organised care and equal opportunities. One thing is certain, and I would also like to draw my fellow Member's attention to the fact that I think it is everyone's duty to vote on this, but everything will change. Everything in health will change. When we press yes today, we know we're going to change everything. I wish you good luck with this, and I wish you a lot of strength, Minister, for all members of the government, for all our fellow Members, and I think that if there is agreement here, it will help you to deal with any problems or conflicts that may arise more easily. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-06-62	Thank you very much, Congressman Gábor Zombor. Speaking in advance: Congressman Lajos Rig, Jobbik.
u2020-10-06-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, I have to pick up where Gábor Zombor left off, he's right, something's going to change in this system, something in the right direction, but there's going to be something in the wrong direction. Allow us to correct two thesis that you have mentioned here in your exposé. You started it, and I didn't understand it, because it doesn't belong to the bill that during socialist government, socialist government allowed the privatisation of hospitals, and you thought about the privatisation of operations. I would like to inform the Minister that there were two municipalities in Transdanubia, one in Körmend, and the other in Tapolca, both of them are Fidesz city leaders, who, on their knees, begged MediSyst Kft. to operate and destroy these two hospitals in an operational privatisation. Congresswoman Selmeczi read from a pay table that anyone who has a higher education of OKJ, i.e. a qualification of 5.5, and I may have misinterpreted it, but she has five years of working relationship, or let's say that if we interpret differently that she has a serial number and grade of OKJ, she has a salary of HUF 350 thousand. I have to disappoint you, Congresswoman, or I've been screwed over, and I've got a 5.4 and 5.5 Tertiary OKJ qualification, and I'm in category 9, so my gross salary with hazard and other allowances is HUF 337 610 after 24 years. Here, by number, five years 350 and 24 years 337 thousand are not exactly the same. [[12.40]] But let's get to the law. So the introduction of the law itself is, in my opinion, an old-fashioned method. The first is to do it right away so you can't be prepared for it. Two, if you vote, they can say later, but you voted for it, too. But if you don't vote, then your slogan is that you're a traitor, you're a Balliberian, say, Agent Soros. But let's put that aside. Then let's look at the professional side. You said that you had consulted professional organisations. Interestingly, the emergency bureau meeting of the Hungarian Health Professionals' Chamber stated something else and other thesis. Unfortunately, the bill itself is nothing more than to see a military command. The fact that the settlement of medical wages is already up to date, no one is questioning it. But, I ask you, did it take you ten years and a pandemic to get this far? Ten years and a pandemic, and we're going to push this through Parliament in 24 hours as a matter of urgency. Why couldn't it have been the same? For everyone, I think that every political organisation, every civil society organisation and healthcare organisation, is an extremely important issue. It was a time of separation between the public and private sectors and, in my view, a forward-looking goal. But the device you're trying to do this with is not good. And let us now try to reflect this with practical examples. In this draft law, you will not allow a patient with a practice specialist's private order to re-use the private care system. When I arrived in Budapest today, I received a call from the head of the department of a county hospital, who has been a trauma specialist in a small town for 27 years, and many patients have been visiting them with joint problems, and according to this law, he will not be able to operate in the county hospital. He said, "Lajos, I'll stay in the private sector, quit the public sector." Did you raise the fact or thesis or question whether after the adoption of the law, the number of doctors leaving the public sector will be great? One more: the contribution contracts. There are a lot of professions, including anesthesiology, that do collaborating activities in hospitals. Suppose he sleeps in Tapolca on Monday, then goes to Ajka, the next day to Veszprém, Székesfehérvár. A full-time anesthesiologist is very few. You are here in the first place seeking to pay for doctors, which is to be supported, and I think I can also say that the Jobbik faction will support this. However, I said that the law contains a lot of things that I believe, Minister, cannot be supported either professionally or even humanly. Maybe you've been thinking, or the secretary of state, which finger you're biting right now. Because this bill wasn't designed and written by a man working in the field of health care, that's a hundred percent. What Congressman Luke said is true. This was said not only by Congressman Luke, but also by the doctor who called me this morning that this was born at the Ministry of the Interior. I understand that in view of the virus situation, controls must be carried out, because there are hospitals, there are areas of expertise where, at the moment, health professionals are exposed to contamination, and we need to defend ourselves. But that doesn't have to be regulated in this law. There was only one request from the Medical Chamber to settle medical wages. Mr. Secretary. You mentioned it, and there are a lot of Members here that the salary of health professionals will continue to be caught up, and even if it is possible to put it that way, you have said that the wages of health professionals have so far been increasing to an unprecedented extent. We are talking about 55,000 employees, these data are available on the website of MESZK, at the moment there are 55,000 full-time professionals. I quote the call of Dr. Zoltán Balogh, president of the MESZK, and welcome the support of medical wages: it is a legitimate need for our members to pay 1.9 times the scale corresponding to the increase in medical wages in the field of health professionals,, in 21 there should be a minimum 50 percent increase in wages, continuing in 22-23 in the same way as the schedule and rate of medical wage arrangements. I think, if you can put it that way, because now, during the virus situation, you acknowledge and try to reward the multi-hour, multi-month struggle that doctors and professionals are fighting in the field of health care, but I'm going on, the employees of the social sphere, because they're part of this system, whether you like it or not. I do not know how many Members have watched the work of health workers who spend more than 12 hours in protective clothing on a daily basis, either in the area of Covid care or in the field of rescue. Do you know how difficult that is? Were you wearing these clothes for, say, three hours? I don't think so. If I wanted to fully settle the wages of healthcare workers, including doctors, workers and social workers, they could have done so without such critical provisions within a law. Let's move this to another platform. Now let's talk about the wages of doctors and health workers or social workers. If you had done this here in Parliament, I think that there would not have been a parliamentary speech that criticized this proposal. But with more doctors, several health organizations have raised their word here in the emergency procedure, that within four hours, any decision amendments have to be submitted, that's nonsense. There's no war situation! Once again, it took ten years and a pandemic. I think we could have lasted a week and a half. You could have gone through the People's Welfare Committee, which deals with health care, and then there wouldn't be such debates, there would be no question marks, and there would be full unity in Parliament. But I am not the only one in doubt, Minister and Secretary of State, in your ranks too; they do not dare to tell you, or they do not tell you so. And who takes responsibility for leaving the public sector after the entry into force of the law? Who's responsible for that? Because parasolvency does not belong to the health system, it is evident and clear, it must be chased out and punished. It should be punished as well as that gynecologist oncologist doctor who asked the tumor patient for 300 thousand forints to operate. And what does he do? To this day, he's in surgery, and he's even been decorated! Do you think that fits into Christian culture? In my opinion, no. A sick man, especially someone with a tumor and dying, is unethical to ask for money and has no place in the medical community. The sentence can extend to one year for a health worker if he accepts the parasolvency and is accepted up to 5 percent, i.e. up to 5 percent of the minimum wage. In a month, if you get four or five Raffaello, that almost puts you out, plus a couple of other chocolates or flowers. How are you gonna verify that? Does this have a control system? It's a question because I can't imagine. But otherwise, the procedure itself is good. But please, and I'm begging you, they've been using this for politicians. Well, where do we see it when a politician accepts something and writes it in his property statement? ! We've seen him take part in luxury hunts, maybe it's a gift and it's over that amount. But we also saw him on a luxury yacht smoking either a vacation or some unidentified white powder. [[12.50]] He wasn't legally held accountable; he could be morally. Because if we try to sanction health workers like this, let's try the politicians, I'm a partner in this, because it would be possible to eliminate, say, in a rural town, renovating someone's terrace or building an apartment for boys in a city with certain gifts. We could cover that. But what is about this law, ladies and gentlemen, is clear, and what has come down in the media is nothing but the settlement of medical wages. But you guys put in a series of sessions that you might know in the medical community, among health professionals, you kind of knocked out the fuse. There's an Internet site called the Ward Room, it's worth looking at the comments there. Perhaps this law would not have come before the National Assembly in this form. As a health worker who has spent 26 years in this profession, I would ask you to reconsider the request of the MSZK, and at the same rate and percentage as you have now been given the opportunity to catch up on medical wages, to raise the wages of health workers and workers in the social sector, thus avoiding the so-called tension between health workers and health workers. That's what I'm asking you to do. And to the problems I have raised here, give a credible answer to the private sector's departure, so that the doctors can even put these ideas out of their sight. Thank you for listening.
u2020-10-06-64	Thank you, Congressman Rig. Preliminary speaker Mr Gergely Arató, DK. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-06-65	Dear House, Here, our excellent representatives for health have already said their supporting and problematic contributions, and I do not want to comment on the health professional issues of the bill, thank God, there are many much better experts in this House. What I would like to say is the way in which you have brought this proposal to Parliament and how it is handled here in Parliament. Dear House, An exceptional procedure has been requested for this proposal. In one case, there would be a reason for the Parliament to adopt this proposal in such a static manner in two days without a substantive committee debate and proper preparation: if the wage increase were immediate, this would be entirely justified. An immediate wage increase should indeed be decided immediately, it would already be too late for an immediate wage increase. You are absolutely right to talk about the sacrifices that health workers make during the epidemic, and I think that we all see that, acknowledge that, and thank you. But if that's the case, if it's a huge burden on health workers now, then why are we raising their wages next January and two years from now and three years from now, why not now? And don't refer to the Chamber, because if you read the Chamber's proposal, it included an immediate wage increase element for the year 2020 and you're not doing that, but you're pulling this wage increase apart. There would therefore have been a reason to negotiate this bill in such an exceptional procedure if we had actually decided on an immediate wage increase. That's what we expected, that's what we asked for in April, when you said there was no point in a health wage increase when you rejected it and didn't support it. I am pleased that their views have changed and that they already consider it important to raise health wages very significantly. But if they do, don't give me half a heart. If you really think the doctors are doing such a sacrifice and important job, then don't just once give me a raise, right now. And that if they say that such a sacrifice is being done by health workers, they should not leave those who are not doctors out of this circle, they should make this increase available to all health workers, because they have a different but equally important role to play in health care by doctors, workers and other health workers who support them. Secondly, yesterday on the Legislative Committee a shameful act took place. Now let's just ignore the fact that we waited half an hour for the government side to even figure out what it would suggest. Then you came in and said on the Legislative Committee, Mr. State Secretary, Madam State Secretary, Mr. President, that we will now meet the requests of the Hungarian Medical Chamber, which is why a proposal has been tabled. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I did.]] They forgot to hand over this proposal to the committee representatives for a reason. In the meantime, we have this letter through the press. And what do we see in him? The Medical Chamber has raised eight things. He suggested that general practitioners and those employed in health care should also be subject to the law. This has not been achieved, and even the Democratic Coalition's proposal on this matter has been rejected. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Another law! It's a text understanding problem. Another law!]] It's been raised... don't yell, I'm telling you what you guys do, please listen to me. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You have to read it!]] The question of second job was raised. By the way, the fact that this can be limited is not made on the basis of an individual decision, but on the basis of a normative regulation, this has not been taken into account. The gradual implementation of the rules on personal involvement has not been taken into account. They didn't change that either. Nor has any comment on freedom and the government's unlimited powers of regulation been taken into account. Undoubtedly, they fulfilled the request with regard to the ratings, that it cannot be differentiated downwards, that is true, and a solution has been reached in relation to the salary of non-qualified persons. To add, I'm afraid this is a legally flawed solution, but I don't want to get into that right now. In any case, that's where they tried to solve this problem. And finally, they didn't give me the authority to regulate the rules on deployment in a regulation. We have now heard from Minister that there is an intention, that is correct, but then why did you not like to contribute to the mandate in the law. So what I can tell you is that you refer to the Hungarian Medical Chamber, and, no doubt, a very important demand from the Hungarian Medical Chamber, which concerns the pay table, is being met. Not at the time requested by the Hungarian Medical Chamber, but rather, rather, separated, but, no doubt, this claim is met but also essentially nothing. The amendments that you have tabled to the law through the Legislative Committee will not be corrected either by sending out or by banning further employment and with many consequences, Mr Rig spoke very plastically about this, neither by conflict of interest nor by whom this law applies, and who will receive this increase in wages. Because I believe that when you promise, you promise, I only doubt that you will do it. I would like to ask you and ask you again why GPs are not equally important, why the workers are not so important, why those working in the social field are not important. That's the answer to that. I must say that there would have been time to talk about this in a normal parliamentary procession. We wouldn't have any objections if they'd only brought the pay sign here, by introducing it immediately, and we would have been happy to support it. But I have to say that this proposal is therefore facing a number of problems in its entirety. I must say that we are therefore in favour of the pay table, this is necessary, we do not understand why it is not now, and we do not understand why the creation of additional rules is being beaten through Parliament in this way. I will bet you any time that the amendment to this law will be brought back to Parliament again this year, because they will realize that there are unsolvable points and that they are not legally in order. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2020-10-06-66	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Arató. Preliminary speaker Mr József Kovács, Fidesz. [[13.00]]
u2020-10-06-67	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Minister. Madam Secretary! Mr. Secretary. Dear fellow Members, We're in the second wave of the plague, and it looks like it's gonna be a lot longer and harder than the first one. It's on its way up, so it's time to increase the load-bearing capacity of healthcare workers. Hungarian people are counting on health workers, thanks for their work, especially during the period ahead. In Hungarian hospitals, thousands of patients are now being treated and treated, and they are successfully fighting the epidemic. We also owe the expertise and perseverance of Hungarian doctors to Hungary's successful confrontation with the coronal virus epidemic. Therefore, as an expression of appreciation for the work of Hungarian doctors, the government accepted the proposals of the Hungarian Medical Chamber. We are now looking at a proposal with a wage increase of unprecedented size, with a wage increase of about 120 per cent in two years compared to current wages. Payments increase in ranges every three to four years after the years worked. From 1 January 2021, doctors will receive a higher wage of 70 percent, 30 percent from 1 January 2022 and 20 percent from 1 January 2023. The first wage raised will be paid on April 5th next year, going back to January 1st. There has been a lot of talk about a medical salary increase and wage development that is linked to the service in health care. In my opinion, such a draft law should be read through word for word, if one is raised to speak, and a few lines of the annex that have not yet been mentioned, I would like to describe it because the wage increase of dentists has been challenged by someone. According to the Annex, doctors, specialists, dentists, dentists, pharmacists, pharmacists and pharmacists, as well as other non-university graduates and non-medical university graduates and medical professionals, are affected by this increase, namely in ten categories, starts 0-2 years and no longer determines the years over 41 years. So there's a lot more to this than just medical wage development. During the spring season of the epidemic, the government and the health government turned to the workers and tried to raise wages as much as possible. There was no medical wage developments then, and now we can witness this, and I hope that after the vote, they are part of this success. There is a question of gratitude money in this proposal. This has also been mentioned many times today. Thanksgiving money will no longer be a legal income. The question of gratitude money can be traced throughout the history of health care. Small gifting is possible. It is stated in the law that this amount can be up to 5% of the current minimum wage. This means 8 thousand forints at present, but this can be imagined not in the form of money, but in the form of a small gift, which is legalized by the law. The wage increase of the workers is not affected by this law, because the government has set a total wage increase of 72 per cent from 2019 to 22 and has since been regularly and continuously. So this is happening right now. The next wage increase will be in November 2020. In 2022, a nurse will earn an average of two and a half times what was before the program. The bill introduces a medical service relationship to the system. It also specifies the content of the person's legal status. The public or municipal healthcare provider may only carry out health activities in the context of a medical service service, as well as activities aimed at ensuring the functioning or operation of the healthcare provider. That's very nice, by the way. The introduction of service has always existed, but mostly in the form of a certain reward. After 25, 30 and 40 years of employment, certain financial conditions have been granted to those who have spent this time in health care, but there are ten categories of details. By the way, the law applies to state, municipal, university clinics, hospitals, clinics, as well as doctors, specialists and auxiliary staff working here, as I explained at the beginning of the annex. General practitioners have also been mentioned many times on this issue. Minister Gulyás pointed out that general practitioners who operate in the form of a public or municipal authority and not as a private doctor would also apply, as a matter of fact, and that their wage arrangements would take place in the next eTap. The law also sets out rules on conflicts of interest in the health care activities of health workers. It is a significant change that anyone who works in a state or municipal hospital can only work elsewhere with the permission of the government. This will obviously be governed by a government decree. That doesn't mean he can't do it, he can only do this job with a license. This, of course, does not apply, according to the law, to scientific, educational, artistic, literary, editorial, foster parenting activities. Moreover, if you work in a public or municipal hospital, you cannot use the premises of the hospital for private practice, which is unfortunately the case in health care today. Also, the same disease can only be cured by a doctor in the same patient in public or private practice in the future. It is also an old demand for everyone to keep public and private care from mixing. I want to make it clear what I'm talking about. Unfortunately, some colleagues have done so, and everyone knows this with me from a certain period of time in public work as a private activity for the coming period for which they are asking for financial compensation. In this sense, the law will not allow this to happen in the future. But there are exceptions. It has already been mentioned that, due to the government's demographic objectives, for example, obstetric and gynecological care, so obstetricians and gynecologists, may need to deviate in order to develop our demographic indicators flexibly. Besides, the hospital director can't heal, but his practical time will include the time he ran the hospital. So if you suspend your driver's work, you won't lose your medical license, you'll get the highest pay grade wage. The bill in the order of freedoms finally and thank God for order. This means that freedom cannot be accumulated indefinitely and that the legal relationship does not allow for further cash redemption. The freedoms trapped inside are still wide enough to be taken out by the end of 2023, after which the freedom that remains is lost. In addition, severance pay may be after at least three years of work and only in the event that the employee has not resigned. According to the proposal, individual performance can be assessed by the employer, which allows the employer to increase the amounts presented at each step by 20 per cent in the case of outstanding special work. I have already mentioned that after 25, 30, 40 years, health care professionals receive financial service recognition. Hungarian people continue to rely on healthcare workers, especially during the next difficult period. The government is committed to honouring the work of Hungarian workers and doctors. I believe that the content of the bill I have put forward is very important and can be supported by all of us. I ask everyone to support this extremely important bill without partying. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-06-68	Thank you very much, Congressman József Kovács. As I do not see more speakers on the screen, the consolidated debate is closed. The rapporteur indicated that he wished to respond to what was said. I give the floor to Minister Miklós Kásler in the ten-minute time frame. [[13.10]]
u2020-10-06-69	Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Minister Simicskó came to me earlier with the warning that it is October 6th, that we remember 13+1 martyrs, and I should take my answer briefly, which I am trying to attempt in the spirit of the thought he has written today, that there will always be life out of blood. October 6th reminds us of blood, and today we're talking about the life that this bill represents. I have made a detailed list of all the relevant circumstances in the presentation. At the committee hearing, you discussed and adopted the exceptional procedure, so allow me to leave the comments on this matter unanswered. The factions responded as their knowledge, temperament, and view of life dictated. Of the answers, if you will allow me, I will also ignore them. I also ignore those in my reply to which the text of the law itself gives the right answer, and the contributions of the pro-government representatives have also been given. I sensed that there was a lack of solid understanding and interpretation here and there, but I felt at that stage of the session that these were resolved for you. As far as the point is concerned, you have agreed unanimously with the basic idea of the proposal. The comments concerned detailed questions, which were expected to be answered to a large extent. They touched on the issues of the epidemic, I listened to the opposition tops about the epidemic again, PCR testing and similar questions, we often answered them, we will answer them many times, not part of this presentation. This is not part of the proposal to settle the salaries of family doctors, to settle the salaries of workers in the social sector. You can always get an answer to that. Many sectors belong to the Ministry of Human Resources, but there is hardly a month in which the government does not increase the salary of one of its employees in one sector. What we are talking about here is that the pay of the nurses will increase by 72 percent between 2019 and 2022, by 20 percent in November and 30 percent in January. This means that by 2022, nurse's salaries will increase by 2.5 times under the government of the national government. In the case of doctors, the rate of salary increase so far is also 2.5 times higher, and what we are talking about is that that's what he realizes. They have all accepted the approach that the medical community will be extremely responsible, extremely burdensome, and able to cope with physical and mental stress, and that the disease has been managed by the government through health care and national cooperation, and will do so. Thank you for all your comments. The comments have been taken into account. In May 2018, I offered to the opposition representatives, whoever has a thought, a proposal that serves the common good, feel free to contact me, I welcome everyone. We've got reception skills, and you're taking advantage of this opportunity. I do not know that there was one among what was said that would indeed have affected the substance of the subject. I think we should thank everyone who has given their opinion. I mention the EDDS and I sat through the Medical Chamber at the Prime Minister's office on Friday, and the presentation is in fact correct. I know it before the Medical Association's opinion, because we've been talking to them more than once. So what I can tell you is that the government was correct. The response to the statement by the Medical Chamber came out late last night and will be published today. In summary and in conclusion, and given that Members want to leave to remember what is worth remembering, I would also like to draw your attention to the importance of voting, the importance of voting for the law, because at some point you will be remembered, all of us will be remembered. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-06-70	Thank you, Minister Kasler. Dear Parliament, We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats. Before we begin the voting procedure, we will carry out a presence check to verify that the voting machines are operational. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. Present 149 Members, absent 49. Dear Parliament, It follows from the publication of the T/12876 on the replacement of lists between the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Latvia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of circumvention of taxation in Riga, signed on 14 May 2004 in the field of income and property taxes. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/12876. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 161 votes in favour, without voting against or abstaining. It follows a line between the Republic of Hungary and the Islamic Republic of Pakistan in order to avoid double taxation in the field of income tax in Islamabad, on 24 February 1992, T/1287. Final vote of bill No 1. The rapporteur is Mr T/12877/1. has submitted an adjustment by serial number, which is available on the network. Since no amendment has been proposed to summarise the proposal, we are now deciding on an adapted text of the proposed legislation. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/12877. Act No. 1 along with the adjustment. [[Vote.]] [[Vote.]] Please vote now. (Vote.) I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the adjusted bill with 163 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. [[13.20]] Following is the T/12878 on the termination of the Headquarters Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Central and Eastern European Regional Environment Centre. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/12878. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill by 116 votes in favour, 46 against and without abstentions. Following the publication of the Agreement on cooperation and customs union between the European Economic Community and the Republic of San Marino and the Protocol to the Agreement on cooperation and customs union between the European Economic Community and the Republic of San Marino Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/12879. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the bill with 166 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Following is the T/12881 on the termination of the International Convention on the International Cooling Institute in Paris, dated 1 December 1954. Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/12881. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 136 votes in favour, 3 against and 27 abstentions. The situation of nationalities living in the territory of Hungary [[January 2017 December 2018]] H/9465. Final vote on the proposal for a decision. As no amendments to the proposal have been tabled, we are now deciding on the text of the proposal for a decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept H/9465. A proposal for a decision. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the resolution proposal by 153 votes, 4 votes against and 9 abstentions. Next, the 2019 XCV on the single budget of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority for 2020. T/12869 on the amendment of the Act Final vote of bill No 1. Since no amendments have been tabled to the proposal, we are now deciding on the text of the bill submitted. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the T/12869. Bill No. 1. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the bill by 118 votes in favour, 48 against and without abstentions. Next up is the T/13174. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I remind you that, according to our decision yesterday, the bill will be dealt with in an exceptional procedure by the Parliament. T/13174/4. T/13174/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/13174/4. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the National Assembly adopted the summary amendment by 165 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. The final vote now follows, in which we decide on the text of the bill as amended by the summarised amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/13174. The text of the proposed amendment, as amended by the summary amendment. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament voted in favour of the amended bill with 165 votes in favour, without voting against or abstention. [[A round of applause from government parties and Jobbik.]] Dear Parliament, Thank you for your cooperation. We've reached the end of the decisions. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break. Several Members are leaving the Chamber.]] [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] [[13.30]]
u2020-10-06-71	Good afternoon. Dear Parliament, We will continue our work with general debates. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as far as possible, only the next speaker and the following two speakers are to be present in the Chamber. Discussions may be followed by the internal television mediation system for all; the names of the following three representatives will be presented by the chairman at the end of each speech. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1996 LV on the protection of the game, game management and hunting. General debate on the proposal to amend law until closure. Presentation by Mr István Simicskó and Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, Mr KDNP, T/13109. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. [[In the notary seat Attila Gelencsér will be replaced by László Földi.]] First, I give the floor to Mr István Simicskó, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-72	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I'll start by saying that the last week has been a week of creation protection. October 4e is an important anniversary and an important day named after St. Francis of Assisi, the patron saint of animals, when it really is worth focusing our attention a little more on the Earth entrusted to us and entrusted to care; the living and living heritage protection of created goods is of paramount importance. The proposal tabled by me and my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, was designed to save one of the living, living heritage of our national values, because our ancestors left us animal species that are specifically indigenous here in the Carpathian Basin, which specifically formulated Hungarian culture, Hungarian animal husbandry practices, expectations, demands, and the needs of our ancestors in relation to the breeding and keeping of these animals. In 2003, I had the opportunity to submit a parliamentary resolution here to Parliament on the declaration of the national treasure of the old Hungarian animal species, and in 2007 I also submitted the parliamentary resolution on the protection of the Hungaricums to the House. They were accepted, with great pleasure, and I hope for the joy of all of us, and then the Hungaricum Law was passed. And I'm telling you this because nine Hungarian dog breeds are among these values, so we've all declared them national treasures, and we've declared them hungaricum. With the nine types of Hungarian dogs, with this value in the ranks of nations, we are among the first ten great nations; the British, the Germans and the French beat us decisively, and obviously the Russians, the Italians and some other nations; the Japanese still have and the Spanish have nine national breeds. The puli, the pumi, the mudi, the kuvas, the comandor, the short haired Hungarian vizsla, the Transylvanian copper, the Hungarian greyhound, the shorthaired and the wire-haired vizsla, in two versions. They're our kind of dogs. The fact is that for some reason, according to my research, the Transylvanian hound was probably out of the circle with which the traditional use value, the task for which our ancestors created and bred this dog breed in 2004, during the European Union accession... shall not be used and shall not be used for hunting activities, and shall not be used for hunting activities. The group of hounds is a separate category within the ten breed groups, so many nations have hound dogs, at least ten to fifteen nations have separate species of hounds. The Transylvanian hound can still be hunted in these countries, especially in Romania, especially in Transylvania; the Transylvanian hound bears the name in his name. This shows that other nations appreciate the weariness of the wearer, the wearer's qualities. We have a misinterpreted idea that the Transylvanian hound is out of this circle. This means that in today's situation, committed hound farmers in Hungary are in a very difficult situation, because the breed is on the brink of extinction, 20-25 puppies are born every year. In comparison, let me just say that 20-25 thousand puppies are usually registered in Hungary every year of all the breeds they breed at home. The definition of pure-bred dogs is carried out by the FCI, the International Kinological Association, which is now around 400 species that exist in the world. The fact is, last year, over 3,000 French bulldog puppies were registered, and compared to this, let's say, the Transylvanian hound, the 20 individuals, shows the shift to this scale, this ratio. So it is our duty to protect the Hungarian national treasures, the Hungarian national values, to show our children and to pass on this value, and these are living, living heritage that they have left us. Therefore, the purpose and intention of the amending proposal is to make an exception for a national treasure, for a Hungaricum, and for the sake of a few Transylvanian cop farmers, from the current regulation, which states that dogs cannot be hunted at a height above 45 centimeters, let us take this opportunity, on the one hand, to allow Transylvanian hounds to pursue hunting in Hungary. The Hungarian vizsla, the shorthaired Hungarian vizsla and the wire-haired Hungarian vizsla can be hunted, there is no such restriction; they do this work with registered dogs who have passed the hunting test, in compliance with the hunting practice. I myself took several of these exams and looked at both the farmers and the puppies. The agarage has also been returned to the law, and it is possible to hunt with a Hungarian greyhound in Hungary, but not with the Transylvanian hound at the moment. Therefore, our proposal would apply, and I would very much ask you to support the proposal, the amendment proposal, and obviously also the Government, to support this endeavour to help the Transylvanian copper, to help Transylvanian farmers, so that this culture can live on. I don't want to get into it too professionally, at the Agriculture Committee's meeting, we talked a long time about what hunting methods there are, what hunting procedures there are. I would like to say that I am not a hunter, and I do not have a Transylvanian hound, so that is not why we have touched this proposal and this amendment, but merely so that this kind can be preserved, placed in its rightful place, and once again to please its owners and, obviously, our national community, that we have been able to save this national treasure in this way, and we have at least been able to contribute to the perception of this problem. I do not like exceptional things, but in this case I feel that we must make this decision, because it gives them an opportunity. Allow me to make a parentheses comment, my fellow Members, and this would be that I would have to speak and wreath on 6 October in Zsolt V. Németh's constituency, the Őrség, on the edge of the border, in the town of Rátót. And since the previous debates have been going on here, I may not be able to stay through the debate, and I am not doing this indecently, because I am interested and curious about your position and opinion, but Lőrinc Nacsa will stay here, and he will say the closing word. But otherwise, any questions, comments, I'm welcome to be available anytime outside the Parliament. I think at least if we agree on dog stuff, it means something. I trust you'll support him. The news here about mauling and tearing up, and I don't know what they're about is completely wrong, wrong approaches, because the Transylvanian hound is a big game dog. If he senses a boar and drives it and chases it, he barks with a sharp voice and signals to his master that he has discovered the beast. If the boar is surrounded by three or four coppers, they will not start tearing it up, because they know it would be life-threatening for them, because the boar can do nasty things, but by barking they can keep it chessed; by a deeper barking signal to the master, the hunter, that yes, they caught the beast, cornered it, and that the hunter can arrive, who will obviously do his job by following the rules of the hunter. A hound hunt is chasing the rabbit, so there's an equal chance of hunting there, and the hunting with the vizsla is completely different, obviously standing there. If he senses the smell of the wild beast, the small blind, the pheasant, the prisoner, the rabbit, anything, then, motionless, staring, with his nose, he tells the hunter where the wild beast can be found. [[13.40]] So there are different types of procedures, only a hound hunt cannot be practiced at the moment, at least with a Transylvanian hound. It is indeed a dangerous trend, and I think that we should continue to act on it, and I think that they are not hunters, not following the rules of hunting ethics, they go into the forest with all kinds of mixed dogs and aggressive dogs, with pit bull-like dogs, which, moreover, are less than 45 centimeters in height, so they can cause much more damage to the wildlife, and they can obviously be dangerous to everyone. So the responsible dog-keeping, our human responsibility, is included in this proposal. I feel that there are still a number of challenges ahead, in terms of animal protection and the protection of the created world. The KDNP fraction will also be cooperative in the future and even proactive in many things. So I would like to ask you with great respect to support this proposal. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-10-06-73	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I'll ask Secretary Farkas to speak on behalf of the government. [[For signal:]] Here you go.
u2020-10-06-74	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Member, If I want to make a brief statement on behalf of the government, then I say that the government supports me, but let me give you some thought. The Transylvanian hound, as you mentioned, is an indigenous Hungarian hound dog, which has been used with great success in our history because of its excellent qualities. He has great adaptability, a strong character, and therefore even more dangerous savage species, as you mentioned earlier, for example, he can do well in hunting boars. Today, however, this valuable national treasure is a decreasing number of varieties, thus in danger, based on the data of the Association of the National Association of Hungarian Food Farmers. In the current hunting legal environment, there are no valid restrictions on hunting dogs and therefore the Transylvanian hound can also be used. On the other hand, in accordance with the rules in force during the detour hunts, as my fellow Member mentioned, the hunting of dogs with a height of more than 45 centimeters has so far been a violation of the hunting order. Yet, thanks to the courage and endurance of a well - trained copper, he tirelessly drives the beast and responds immediately at the command of his master. Of course, training, training, training and training are as important for this dog as it is for other dog breeds, i.e. the Transylvanian hound, so that it is true that the etiquette that hunters and hunting ethics require of this breed. In addition, in many situations, larger marigolds, such as special soil characteristics, wet areas and flood areas, can be beneficial. Anyone who has been in such a place knows very well that they are difficult to reach, whether small or smaller, with smaller dog breeds it is almost a difficult area to visit, so a stronger, more robust, larger dog is much better able to search these areas, so to speak. In order to ensure that this precious breed and its talent do not disappear in the future, the amendment proposal aims to fix as an exception the Transylvanian hounds with a hunting competence test and a certified proof of origin in relation to the provision on detachment hunts. The approval of this would facilitate the exploitation and long-term maintenance of the variety's skills in hunting. It is only to mention that, of course, when we are talking about just a couple of twenty animals, this in itself is extremely small and small compared to the number of other breeds of dogs, so it is important that breeding organisations or breeders who deal with the Transylvanian hound should see the meaning of the further expansion of this breed of dogs, so that they actually fulfil the role that the author has said and explained. So it is true that the proposal specifically concerns hunting or the hunting process, but this proposal alone is a confirmation of this breed, an increase in the number of people, so that it does not really fall out of the list of Hungaricums, indeed remains for us a national value which is very much linked to our history, our traditions, like other dog breeds and many other animals, I would like to add. Because the next item on the agenda is the proposal for a resolution on livestock farmers' day, which, I think, is a little connected to this story, because it cannot be separated, we're just talking about animals. This is why it is important to strengthen this type of dog in this respect, and not only in the hunts, but perhaps in the news, in the public as well, to spread the importance of this breed, its usefulness, to draw more attention to the fact that, yes, this is the kind that, as mentioned earlier, is our national treasure, our national value. I therefore consider it important, ladies and gentlemen, that to this end this legislative proposal is supported by the Agricultural Ministry, and I would also ask my fellow Members to support this proposal with their comments and suggestions, so that we are sure that we can ensure the survival and survival of such a dog in the long-term future, as planned. We therefore support the proposal from the government. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-06-75	Thank you. There will now be speeches by keynote speakers. First up, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mr Béla Dankó. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-76	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Of the nine Hungarian breeds of our national treasure, the Transylvanian hound is in the most vulnerable situation. As Mr. Group Leader said, the small number of puppies born and the small number of puppies are registered, for example, the number of puppies is now recorded at about 40 times the number of puppies each year. There is probably a very simple reason for this, and that is its usability. As long as Hungarian vizsla can be used continuously by hunters, for example, and they are also kept as pets, it was said that the law to be amended greatly limits the use of hunting to the Transylvanian copper, thereby greatly limiting the need for maintenance. It is very simple to ask and suggest on the part of the petitioners: give the Transylvanian hound a chance, give us a chance to increase the possibilities of usability, provide hunters, hunters with an opportunity to use these great dogs and our national treasures on the hunts, and then perhaps we will ensure that this breed remains in the future. I, too, respectfully ask Members to support this amendment. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-06-77	Thank you very much. Congressman Adam Steinmetz, Jobbik, please.
u2020-10-06-78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, this issue was already mentioned, and the honourable national said then and now that he does not hunt, but I trust that he has also agreed with hunters and hunters who are otherwise practicing on this issue. The intention is noble, by the way. Two years ago, only 24 Transylvanian coppers were registered, as we can see in the justification of the legislative proposal. This is a shockingly low number from a traditionally Hungarian breed of dogs classified as a national treasure. And I really agree that this breed must be saved from extinction, so to speak. It's just a question of how we're doing this. With this amendment to the hunting law, this passage, I have two problems. One is a problem of principle. It is a matter of principle that we now make an exception to a generally accepted principle. That's unfortunate, I think, especially for a small number of individuals. But if there were technical reasons to support this, I still think that would be understandable. But let's see what the professional aspects are, because I've had my share of drives, I've seen the difficulties of this, I've experienced it from close to the body, and I've talked to several practicing hunters and gamers. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the current legislation forbids dogs with a height of more than 4 inches to take part in the detour hunt because it is not beneficial that these dogs, by virtue of their larger stature, cannot fit from the bush to the pigs they should drive to the hunters. This is a practical aspect. [[13.50]] A more important aspect is the protection of dogs. A larger dog in such a hunt can easily be hunted by irresponsible hunters. It happens in many cases. But it is not only this that can cause these dogs to die, but it is the wild boar itself, which fears the pig, or even the wounded boar, which turns against the dog like a can, especially the larger dogs, because it can reach a larger surface. This is why they are better suited for quick, smaller dogs to prevent this attack by wild boar. Therefore, it is not an accident that this current regulation has developed. I appeal to Mr Sándor Farkas, Deputy Minister, because he has been certified to leave, and I can only address the question to him. István Simicskó said that on the basis of a misinterpreted thought, he was excluded from the range of dogs that could participate in this drive. What was that misconception then? We don't understand. We also do not understand that if we are talking about national treasure, there are more than one national treasure, and here we have listed dogs that are larger than 45 centimeters taller than the Hungarian greyhound, the larger Hungarian vizsla, or even the quas, which is also traditional to be used for hunting and shoots, they are now excluded from this circle. I appeal to my fellow Member, István Horváth, who also spoke on this subject in committee, referring to traditions. If someone is, then I really respect tradition, and I think that we need to take into account our past and our traditions in the present and in the future, so it is a very nice idea, but from a legal point of view, it is worrying to make an exception, and it is mainly from a practical point of view. And then I'd like to address one more question to Mr. Deputy Minister. Did you negotiate with the farmers? How do they feel about the dilution of this regulation, which is clearly based on rational considerations in previous years. But I have to say to you that Transylvanian scooter farmers and hound farmers will not be pleased when the concerns I have expressed in practice are proven that these dogs can indeed be seriously injured in these hunts. I'd like to nuance the question to list one more reason, so the big dog can catch up with the beast and be able to drown it. So, as much as it is a registered, schooled dog, this is when he carries his blood, especially when they go in packs and attack, they chase these beasts. So there is a real danger that the hunter's entertainment will be undermined by the fact that the dog will not lead the game to the hunter's rifle, but will essentially strangle it, disable it, and possibly strangle it. [[Sándor Szabó will take his place in the notary seat.]] Finally, what I can tell you is that if the goal is to save this breed, it is definitely a goal to be supported. I would like to think that this is the way for the Transylvanian population to swell up in Hungary in the future, because I believe that a responsible hunter will not allow this type of dog to enter his territory, even if the hunting law makes an exception for them, and he will allow it. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-06-79	Congressman László Varga, head speaker of the MSZP, please.
u2020-10-06-80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, we are talking about a breed, the Transylvanian hound, which is included in the parliamentary decision declaring the national treasure of the protected, indigenous or endangered, highly genetic value of farmed Hungarian animal species. This was adopted in 2004. In fact, if we look at such a proposal superficially or superficially, we could say that all cases and any proposals which support the animal species, the rescue and breeding of which are set out in the Annex to this Decision, should be supported. I think that we should also consider, of course, the reservations that have been made here in the debate before me. At the same time, the low number of individuals may not enlarge these problems so much. I hope that the number of these dogs will increase so much that these questions will really have to be discussed professionally someday. However, when I prepared for this speech, it is a very short presentation, really, it consists of two stages, and it is already covered by the closing provisions, then I looked at this resolution, by the way, it was interesting that the Parliament adopted it 16 years ago, and in this annex, I say on a scale that an animal of the order of a hundred, all kinds of animals, really from fish to sheep to dogs. There is an extremely strong sentence in this resolution, and I would like to quote it now. The animal species listed in the Annex are considered to be native Hungarian animals, which are the symbols of Hungary in their name and visual appearance. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. At another stage, in line with this Decision, this Decision refers to the fact that the State is assisting in their breeding and the maintenance of their stock. These animals, which are in the annex, have been declared national treasure by this parliamentary resolution, and once again, the Hungarian state has undertaken to help their breeding and maintenance. Obviously, it is not only up to the Hungarian state what happens to these animal species, but the question arises that we should not go beyond what the Parliament has adopted 16 years ago. For example, it included a review of this annex by the government every five years. It was also part of the fact that from time to time he was obviously sharing the experiences of this, I suppose, with the National Assembly. I think it would be nice to hear a sum summary of this parliamentary resolution and the annex to what the state has done over the past decade to preserve these varieties. If it's such a specific case, and it's a coincidence that it's just a specific case of hunting... now there's a lot of interesting cases, there's a hunting exhibition, there's a lot of things, then I'm saying we're not just looking at this segment, we're looking at the entire annex. To sum up, therefore, if the Secretary of State is to remove the points or give reassuring answers to what has been said before me, then this could be an eligible proposal, as a helper for the conservation of one of the dog breeds, we can accept this, but we would like this decision to be reviewed by both the commission and the government. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-10-06-81	Thank you very much. Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, lead speaker for DK, please.
u2020-10-06-82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I confess to you, when I first crossed the entrance in 2002, I never thought that I would ever talk to you here about the Transylvanian hound or argue with you. I would like to point out that I am not an expert in this area, nor in hunting, nor in keeping with the variety, but obviously, as most Members here have done, I have consulted hunters. We believe that the principle that Mr Simicskó Group Leader has said, namely that the Transylvanian hound must be saved, the conservation programme must be done, a welcome and supportive idea. We add that this would require a long-term strategy, and indeed, together with experts, a regular rescue programme. I can't tell you that right now, but I don't think any of you can tell me to what extent this amendment of the law serves this kind of purpose, in which, once again, I think there is no debate in this House. [[14.00]] It is, of course, regrettable, as the justification for the proposal states, that in 2018, only 24 Transylvanian coppers were registered. It would have been good to know in a legislative amendment tabled in September 2020 what was the situation in 2019, and in 2020 what is there so far, to see a process that this is a decreasing or increasing trend. I'm sure it's fresher than the 2018 data. The other thing that I think should be made clear about in relation to the conservation programme is that the problem that has long been known to exist is that the Transylvanian hound is an endangered breed in Hungary. Therefore, we think that perhaps there should be a more complex, comprehensive bill in this regard rather than just a detail. I spoke through an intermediary to a hunter who said that it could be good or bad, and you don't really know that this is a good solution, which the congressman is presenting. We can see that that side of this bill may have been more open where they dealt with the protection of the breed itself, but that this tool that you want to introduce here and explain in the general explanation and in the detailed explanation is suitable for this, I think no one can say. So I would suggest that, after it can be seen that there is an intention on the part of opposition representatives to support the government and not the government on this issue, quite frankly, but the rescue of Transylvanian hounds, it is not the same. Perhaps it would be more worthwhile to present a more complex bill, even with the long-term strategy and rescue program that we believe is the only way to save the Transylvanian hound. At the same time, I would like to say that when I saw that the law on wildlife protection, wildlife management and hunting was being amended, I really didn't think that the Transylvanian hound was going to be the subject of the issue, but I thought that they might deal with the issue of lead-containing projectiles here, didn't I, with the European Commission, have a debate or perhaps the question of wage hunters, and if it wasn't settled in a regulation, it might be now being settled temporarily, because hunting companies in Hungary today are facing a very serious problem in the field of wage hunting. First, because the government decree issued was not clear because of the Covid-19: professional organisations had a different assessment, they said that a wage hunt could be arranged and that ORFK had a different assessment of this government decree, who said that it was not possible to go for a wage hunt for foreigners; this, for example, is a serious problem for many today. And I also thought that this amendment proposal really was not about the Transylvanian hound, but about the money from a hunting and natural exhibition called Nature, where a million visitors are expected to be transferred to a more important area, otherwise in relation to wildlife management and wildlife protection. I honestly believe that in this case, accepting Mr Simicskó's concern about the reduction in Transylvanian cock number, and, by the way, we know that he has constantly dealt with this subject, I have some uncertainty about the fact that this bill, which, once again, serves the purpose, but I have not yet received an answer from you that this kind of rescue can actually serve the purpose without having a complex long-term strategy and the programme itself. I don't know, I'm looking at the government, because the author really didn't have to go, and this wasn't a criticism, but the government has to answer that there is some idea in this regard, and in particular he's working on this idea with the organization responsible for the breed, organisations, people who have such a dog, and who are much better familiar with their ability to hunt, their applicability. As Congressman Steinmetz has said, he has reservations about this, and I have spoken, and I say, through an intermediary, with a hunter who said that it might be possible, but we also spoke to a hunter who said that he was unsure. I would therefore like to think, as Congressman Varga has indicated, that it might be worth another round on this issue with the author of the wallet, whether by putting the long-term programme into this amendment or raising it, the long-term strategy and the rescue programme are being completed, and the government is coming back here, because we believe that the guarantee that this year will not be 24 but much more Transylvanian coppers. So we look forward to the government's position on this matter. And it is not political, but it is indeed professional, so I think that there is no political debate between us on this issue, and there is a maximum of professional uncertainty between all of us on this issue, which comes from my lack of understanding of this area, and it can come from the fact that you have not received sufficient information on this. Therefore, I propose that we bring this issue back to the House, even if this proposal is withdrawn, and put forward a completely new, more complex proposal, and discuss it together. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-06-83	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, lead speaker of the Dialogue. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-06-84	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The speakers in front of me told me almost everything, so I'll be brief, I'll try not to repeat it. First of all, I'm speaking to him as a green politician, a dog keeper, and obviously not as a hunter about it. Obviously, I have very little information, but, of course, I have consulted with hunters, and they have given me a mixed picture, too: someone agreed with the proposal, but there was someone who expressly opposed it, so I came here with this information. But if you have already started with St. Francis of Assisi, Mr. Simicskó Group leader, and the government has recently appointed a government official for animal protection, Péter Ovádi, then I am curious that you have started your work on this matter, and you have been consulted with hunting organizations and animal protection organizations on this matter. The capital also appointed a Commissioner for Animal Protection in the person of Rebecca Szabó. If there is something to be agreed on, there is a need to take action, then we are open to working together on this issue. However, we do not agree with the justification for the amendment, and we do not see, as the Members before me have spoken, that the future of the Transylvanian hound would be guaranteed in the context of this amendment, and we do not see this as assured. Speaking of Transylvanian hounds, we clearly support this kind of proposal in the sense that we really consider it very important that the nine native Hungarian dogs continue to live, and, of course, we can increase Transylvanian hounds in particular to keep them here. So we absolutely support this. Speaking of this, it would perhaps be a much more useful method if we started a campaign to make the nine Hungarian dogs more loved by the Hungarian owners and as many people as possible look for these dogs. In addition to the Transylvanian hounds, the muds, the pulis and the pumis are also becoming less popular, so we have to deal with this. And if we've already spent billions of forints on the World Hunting Exhibition here, why not spend a few million forints on such a campaign? We can certainly support this, and it might be more useful than this type of bill. Yes, there are mixed views as to the dangers of putting the Transylvanian hound in such a detachment hunt as an animal defender, a green politician. There was a hunter who specifically said that a younger deer, deer, or boar would be attacked regardless of Transylvanian hound training, so there are dangers here, but obviously I don't want to go into such deep professional issues. The goal is clear, but the instrument is not clear, so that we can achieve this goal with this bill in order to save the Transylvanian hounds. By the way, I recommend that everyone who is about to buy a dog to think about the Transylvanian hound, who, by the way, can be a very beloved member of the family as a home animal, a very family-friendly dog, can not only be used for hunting, but also in the family. By the way, with the Fidesz bill, unfortunately, I always wonder who might be in the background, who's the client. [[14.10]] Somebody's got some kind of Transylvanian egg farming business here, and now they're asking you to hit it? Now, I may say it's an honest suggestion, but it's always limping around in the back of your head. I hope that's not the case. So we cannot support this proposal in this form, we can support the goal, and we propose to provide more attention and more resources to save indigenous Hungarian dog species, including the Transylvanian hounds. Thank you for the floor.
u2020-10-06-85	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. Now the first independent congressman to apply may speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2020-10-06-86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The bill before us is to put it in the most subtle terms, it's amazing nonsense. It is foolish because it wants to maintain the breeding of a dog of our national treasure, and it wants to serve the growth of this type of Transylvanian hound, the growth of its pureness, and it amends the hunting law. A few minutes ago, my fellow Member Adam Steinmetz told me exactly the circumstances that led to the explicit prohibition in the hunting law of dogs of such height and height in hunting, based precisely on the professional position that Adam Steinmetz presented. It is not a coincidence that the legislator maintained the conditions under which Article 71 (1) of the Law on the Hunting of 96 and subsequently amended in 2016 and 19 of the Law on the Hunting Act. It declared that certain types of behaviour during the hunt constitute an infringement of the order of hunting. This is the question of what height of dogs can at most participate in the hunt, it is, whether you like it or not, purely professional question, hunting professional question. Of course, I think that there is no representative in this House, and there is no sensible person in this country who does not say that the preservation, preservation, breeding, development and preservation of our species of dogs, which represent our national treasure, is a national task, it is not a question, but I think that it is not possible to maintain a variety by amending a hunting law. My fellow Member, Ms Ágnes Vadai, asked me quite rightly after our fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, is here, and I am not sure that he can answer such professional questions, but here is the Minister of State of the Ministry, as to how the Transylvanian Poppo issue stands in 2020. I can answer the question of my fellow Member, Ágnes Vadai, because I have prepared, and there are 1300 individuals in the world in August 2020, of which 800 in Hungary and 300 in Transylvania. So it is one thing that 24 were registered in 2018, which is included in the proposal, but this means that after having at least 1100 individuals in Transylvania and Hungary, that, fortunately, although we may be at the last hour ourselves, Members of Parliament, with our messages to society, we can achieve that if this type of dog is in such danger, then we should try to participate in the breeding of varieties with all our tools and help. And I welcome my fellow Member, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, who said that there are a number of tools available for a government to try to avoid a type of extinction, and if it is able to give HUF 50 billion to a hunting exhibition, it will certainly be possible to cut off a few million that aims to continue breeding. In 2012, the Hungaricum Act was created by this government, now it is 2020. Our hunting law is 96, and it was already determined what constitutes a violation of the order of the hunt. And I just want to ask you, did it take eight years for someone to remember, for example, that the Transylvanian hound is a dying breed, when 20-25-30 years ago, you could read about it in the press? I thought that the author would at least take some time to remember the man, Peter Nyistor, who had preserved the survival of this type of dog. Young people may not remember it, but older people, that in the days of Ceaușescu, when the number of the Transylvanian hounds had become so small in Hungary that they were really threatened with extinction, a Hungarian delegation went to Transylvania to try to find out if there were breeders there who had preserved this breed. Well, they found Péter Nyistor in Máramarossziget, who kept the breeding of this breed secret in front of the Ceaușescu system, and fortunately thanks to him, at least all of you were able to appear again in Hungary, because two puppies could be brought from Péter Nyistor with the forced lie that he sent the two individuals to János Ceaușescu Kádár. The law won in 2016, the Hunting Act 71. §2 these provisions, i.e. the provisions of the Order of Hunting, in the form which is present today, and on 20 November 2019, i.e. 10 months ago, the Government T/8181. He submitted a proposal amending the Hunting Law to the House, and interestingly, he did not even remember in 19 that the Transylvanian hound was threatened with extinction, and in some way linking the Hunting Law and the Hunt to the rescue of this breed. My colleague, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, asked what interest might be in the background. I am sure that there is a financial interest in the background, or one more possible: these symbolic proposals, we are very national, we are very, very national, very and at all, and everyone on the opposition side is anti-national, but the problem is that these stupid proposals are not intended to sustain the national soul and nation consciousness, but a lot of people think that they are dressed in national robes for the representation of individual material interests. That's what should be avoided. [[Nacsa to Lawrence:]] And while my fellow Member Lőrinc Nacsa is slamming the table, I would like to ask him one more question as KDNP, when it comes to hunting. Here, my fellow Members of the KDNP, in the benches, is that you like the fact that the Hungarian state budget, the 120,000 net cleaning lady's taxes, pays 100 thousand forints per person for each wild boar shot, saying that they are trying to avoid the issue of swine fever! ? The wild boar will be taken over at a price of HUF 50,000 if it is traded, but no, taxpayers will pay twice as much for it, after healthy wild boars, with 20 percent of children in our society not getting healthy food and not regularly supplied as all Hungarian children would. What you're saying is, if you're talking about hunting and you're talking about the 100,000 forints of wild boar, then as a KDNP, you're not going to make it to the top of the agenda, for example, and you're going to get rid of it? ! In particular, children's hunger and the poverty of families make it very unwelcome that hunting companies make a lot of money from wild boars that have been shot down, while there is no danger that swine fever will spread. Or if it is behind this that we are protecting Sándor Csányi's slaughterhouses and pigs, and that is why we have to pay the taxpayers 100 thousand forints for each of the pigs that have been shot, then let us say that this is the underlying interest. I ask just one thing: do not make any hypocritical proposals outside the walls of this House or outside the walls of this House, clothed with all kinds of national robes, completely inconsistent with the subject, but confusing each other. A hundred words have one end: if someone is, then we all want to preserve our native animals; if they are, we all want to do so. [[14.20]] But don't you think, for example, that I'm going to vote for a bill, after which, if the Transylvanian hounds can take part in these hunts, then the boar will eat into him at the first opportunity and kill him? ! Well, you don't like to think seriously that while one real hunting expert says that the hunting law doesn't say that it's a coincidence, it wasn't regulated by chance, and it wasn't because someone overlooked or didn't pay attention or forget, but because there's a professional reason for it, then just because we have to maintain the breeding or the existence of the breed, then we send it to the hunters to kill those animals? ! Come on, think about it. So, please withdraw this proposal. I want you to go home with my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, and find out how you can keep the Transylvanian hound as an individual. Because I could make offers and suggestions, but your parties are ruling. Promotion, let's make it fashionable. Here are 199 congressmen, I'm sure some of us live in a family house, tell them to buy the next dog from Transylvania, and I hope there's enough pureness in the uprisings, and the next program is almost here. All I ask is that we don't send animals to hunters and gamers that are not sure they'll survive at all. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-10-06-87	Thank you very much. Honourable Members, It's only Tuesday today, so I'm asking you all to control your nervous system, because on Friday, we're going to be working for this country, and we're going to be working for this country, so restraint from everyone. And now for a two-minute speech: Congressman Attila Mesterházy, MSZP, please.
u2020-10-06-88	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I can express my opinion in two minutes because many of my fellow Members have said it in front of me, and I do not want to repeat everything again. The one thing I would like to draw your attention to at the very beginning of the debate is that so far, all Members have started their comments almost without understanding this issue, but are happy to give their views. I think I belong in this circle, so it would be worth keeping the debate there, in the circle of people who know how to do it. My second point would be that there is indeed truth in that which many people have spoken about, Ágnes Vadai, Adam Steinmetz and several of my fellow Members, that a kind of rescue should probably appear as part of a more complex programme, so I would really ask the Secretary of State, who is perhaps alone in this Chamber, at least on his own initiative, what kind of resources they plan to provide. Do you really plan to change not only the hunting law, but also something else that can actually keep these varieties? After all, the intention, I would say, is a noble, correct initiative, as my fellow Member, László Varga said, we too would be happy to support such an initiative if we see that it is not such an in medias res, such an ad hoc decision, but it fits in with something, and it will also lead to some long-term sustainable development, as I would say. So, if you could explain in your final answer what other more complex measures you are planning, I would like to thank you and, as a layman, I would also like to take this as a dog-friendly, how this could be resolved in a satisfactory manner in the long term. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-06-89	Thank you. Congressman Béla Dankó, Fidesz, in two minutes!
u2020-10-06-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is obviously true, but I think that it is in itself that we encourage breeders, whether financially or in any other way, to grow more animals, that this is not a solution to the matter, because I have said before that I think that the breeds of dogs that are available for use are the most widespread. And unfortunately, the law to be amended limits the usefulness of this breed of dogs, which is why, if it does not solve it, or at least provides an opportunity to prevent those who wish to keep such a dog, and because it can be used in their lives, in their work, this dog will be a helper, so it is likely to be kept in the long term. The concerns that Congressman Steinmetz has expressed: I am a little confused here, in part, on the fact that he has tried to involve the other Hungarians in this bill that they are also fit to participate today in large hunting. But that's not true. These breeds of dogs are unfit, all other breeds of dogs are incompetent, they have been bred for other things, obviously they have been selected by other characteristics during breeding, they are completely different, for many things. Thank God, my family is part of a splintered dachshund and a Hungarian vizsla with whom we can bring a great deal of joy to each other, but I know that the Hungarian vizsla, for example, is completely unfit to participate in a wild game hunt; especially with the suggestion that it is emphasized in every way that trained and tested dogs can participate only [[The president's ringing the bell to indicate the end of the time.]] on the hunt...
u2020-10-06-91	Uh-uh. .......................................................................................................................................... [[Applause, applause.]] Independent Congresswoman Varga-Damm Andrea, please.
u2020-10-06-92	Thank you. I am very pleased to be able to address my fellow Member, Béla Dankó, because that is why, in reply to my fellow Member, Adam Steinmetz, and the other speakers, farmers are in a difficult situation because they usually want to use dogs for something, and if they are in some way useful, there are more opportunities to buy from the breeder. I forgot to tell you one piece of data from the statistics when I answered my colleague Ágnes Vadai's question: a total of 10 percent of the existing number is used for hunting. So that means that 90 percent of these dogs aren't used for hunting. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's why we're changing it.]] And that's another reason why I don't think that an amendment to the hunting law should increase the survival of the individual and the number of individuals. Thank you very much. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Thank you very much for the argument, but yes!]]
u2020-10-06-93	Congresswoman Vadai, DK!
u2020-10-06-94	Thank you very much. Dear House, Thank you very much to Congressman Andrea Varga-Damm for the figures, but it has not yet shown how many have been registered last year and this year, and I think it would be worth working with more recent data than a bill tabled in 2020. But less important, more importantly, is that I don't remember saying that money should be given to breeders so that this problem can be solved. I was talking about the fact that I think we need a comprehensive strategy and a kind of rescue programme. I know you guys like to simplify things, but what I'm suggesting is a little more complex than just throwing money at people. And I think that on these issues, although it is good that we here or I speak about this thing as laymen, it would be worth asking those who have such a dog to hunt with, what they would normally suggest in order to increase the registered number of this breed. So I think that the government's position on this matter will be the most interesting thing about what a comprehensive strategy and programme are being prepared for saving varieties. This could be a device. Now you can argue about what a dog is up to, some just to make him love, some to hunt, but I don't think that's the subject of the debate right now. There is one thing that we all see, and I think it is in this that we need to find a common solution, that the number of individuals needs to be increased, that kind of salvation must be done if it has not already been successful, because it has long been known that there is a problem, and in this, only the government can answer what strategy the government is preparing for in this case at the moment. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-06-95	Thank you very much. Congressman Steinmetz, Jobbik!
u2020-10-06-96	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If my fellow Member, Béla Dankó, addressed me, and perhaps rightly because I could express it in my speech as a keynote speaker, my aim was not to promote other indigenous Hungarian breeds, which should be regarded as national treasures, but my aim was that if we approach the issue professionally, it is obviously not professionally defendable, I believe that the Transylvanian hound or the dogs with a height of more than 45 cm can participate in the manhunt. If, on the other hand, we put the question of the Transylvanian hound in such a nexus that it is part of the kind of rescue programme that my fellow Members have missed, I can accept a complex programme that is an element of this programme that we are now amending the hunting law. [[14.30]] In this connection, I said that if we made such a statement and put it in a context that this is an element of the rescue programme, then I think that we would proceed consistently and correctly if, in the case of all other indigenous Hungarian breeds included in the Annex to the 32/2004 parliamentary decision, they were allowed to participate in such drives, if and if you really believe that this would happen in order to promote breeding and keeping such dogs in the future. So I hope that this misunderstanding has been resolved. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-10-06-97	Thank you very much. We will now return to the speeches of the Members who have asked for the normal word. I would be happy to inform Congressman Danko that he will be given the opportunity in the next two-minute round. Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes, head of the LMP faction, please.
u2020-10-06-98	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would just like to say very briefly, obviously I would like to describe the position of the LMP faction on how we are going to vote. There was an interesting debate in any case longer than I expected on the bill or on the proposal. I believe that the point has been expressed by Mrs Vadai, that practically all speakers here have agreed with you on the goal of increasing the number of people of this very, very important and valuable native Hungarian species, so that we must implement measures in a way that opens up this possibility. I also believe that there can be no discussion that this proposal on the table alone will not be enough. So this could be a step and a professional debate could be held about whether this is a positive step or not, but it is absolutely necessary to take action beyond that. This debate, in itself, of the fact that this issue has come before the Parliament, may already provide some kind of help. In this respect, it is positive, as Kocsis-Cake Olivio recommended, that everyone buy a Transylvanian hound. I think that this is an important step that this has been said in Parliament, as Congresswoman Varga-Damm has said in practice. I especially thank him for mentioning the name of Peter Nisztor. I'm not an expert either, so I've been doing some research. To that end, it is perhaps important to add that it was necessary to save this breed because in 1947 a law was passed in Romania that it was considered practically an exterminating breed. That is why this breed had to be saved, and then its breeding began after that, and indeed, decades ago, it was believed that it was an extinct breed. We did, too, because we didn't know how to do it, we consulted, and I tried to consult myself. Basically, the signal came to me that this could be a good direction, so it is obviously not enough in itself, but it could be a good direction for this legislative amendment proposal. I believe this source, I believe this information, so we will support it, we will vote in favour of this legislative amendment proposal. However, I would ask that my fellow Members, the rapporteur, also hear the positive, constructive contributions from the opposition lines and try to launch a programme, especially if a resolution proposal adopted 16 years ago has made a special commitment, which can really take substantial steps to save the breed. However, let the rapporteur, the present author, give so many criticisms that there have been very, very serious criticisms, questions and suggestions here, and I believe that they have been made from a basicly professional approach. I think that it would have done the right thing if the answer to these professional questions had already been included in the explanation of the proposal. So I think that you could have been more careful, more prepared for this proposal. Overall, we consider it a positive proposal, we will vote for it, but I very much hope that this consensus will continue later in a programme that will bring about substantial steps to save the breed, the very important kind. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-06-99	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik!
u2020-10-06-100	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear House, Continuing with the opposition representatives' speeches, but strictly not repeating them, I would also like to say a few thoughts. On the one hand, most of the criticisms about the proposal are indeed of a professional nature, and I agree that it is indeed the most endangered Hungarian indigenous dog species, the Transylvanian hound, whose rescue must be a national issue, and it is very right to discuss this issue in the National Assembly. But speaking specifically of this bill and of professional criticism, it is quite talkative that, for example, we could not get to know the opinion of the National Hunting Chamber on this matter. I would therefore urge the Deputy Minister to be informed about this, or, if you know about it, how the National Chamber of Hunters was doing with this amendment, to be kind and to share it with us. I think the problem of the dog type itself can be broken down into two fundamental issues. On the one hand, Article 21 (1) (a) (ii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) In the first century, the survival of a breed, especially one with a relatively low number of individuals, can certainly be imagined during the resurrection of a social need that is not yet present. So it is quite simply worth becoming fashionable, we should be able to make this breed, especially here, in Transylvania, or hopefully even more widely, as we have already experienced at the puli or the Hungarian vizsla, thanks to God. So it is worth starting on this path, and the personal example of this was a good idea, which has been raised here by several fellow Members. However, this is also due to the fact that the State's responsibility can be considered, so the state has the opportunity to move forward in this area and even develop a marketing strategy around the variety. The other issue, which is closely linked to this, I think, is most apparent from the contradiction that the number of individuals does not seem to be as tragic as the number of registered individuals shows. So there is a significant contradiction between the two numbers. The reason why this contradiction comes from is that we all know who participated in the debates on dog breeding here in Parliament, say, about 4-5-6 years ago, when the various proposals came in every six months. This is very simplistically about the fact that the breeding of dogs in our country is divided into two major camps. One of them has international licenses, and the domestic authorities do not like to accept their papers, and the other community is in the favor of the governing parties, but they do not have much use of their breeding documents internationally. So from this contradiction we came to the point that, in terms of many kinds, this is not just the Transylvanian hound, it is the registration, to say the least, that he has lost his prestige, and it is certainly not something that comes from the basis of choosing a pure-bred dog as his companion. This contradiction could be resolved and dealt with only at government level, and then perhaps we could get to the point that not 20 or a few Transylvanian coppers are registered each year, but that we can achieve the higher ratio that would be appropriate and that happens in other breeds. So I would encourage the government to really develop this strategy, which might make this kind more fashionable. On the other hand, the need to create order here in the area of dog breeding, to sit down with each participant, to find the golden medium which is also in the interest of the organizations, individuals and varieties involved in breeding, by the way. What I wanted to mention is that this is obviously not the first time we have seen this problem, either on the government side or on the part of breeders. What proves this more than the last time we talked about similar topics between the walls of the House, Zsolt V. Németh, from the office of State Secretary, promised that this problem, namely that indigenous dogs, dog breeds, have no owner, no manager, will be solved, because they will be assigned to national parks, each national park will have an indigenous dog breed breeding program, its protocol. The most prominent individuals will be installed there, and there will be a kind of continuous, not only breeding program, but also professional selection and virtually continuous shaping of the future. This was at least five years since I was at the national park, whether for work or as a private person, I did not meet any of these operating models, so I suspect that none of our national parks had a single native Hungarian breed to be raised. I thought it was very important to say that, on the one hand, there was such a promise from the government side, even the executives of the task were specifically named, and, unfortunately, there was no budgetary resources and human resources attached to them. So even by chance, I do not want to bring up the responsibility of the national parks here, but I just wanted to say that it is not a new problem, at least a promise has been made to address the problem here, in particular within the walls of Parliament. [[14.40]] And then, as I mentioned, unfortunately, it didn't happen. I would therefore urge you to address, in addition to this proposal to solve a tiny fraction of the problem, how, in the long term, the state can, in a sustainable way, help the survival of indigenous breeds of dogs and how it can help them to maintain their quality and variety. This requires the provision of budgetary resources and changes to legislation. So in addition to this legislation, or rather, I would urge you to return to the foundations and then implement the programme that you promised us earlier. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2020-10-06-101	Thank you very much. Congressman Dankó, Fidesz, applied for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-102	Thank you for the floor. Mrs Vadai is no longer in the room, but I would like to say to her, and to all of us, that four times as many dogs were registered in 2010. In that time, the number of registered dogs has decreased to a quarter, and this number is constantly decreasing. It's a very bad trend. I would also like to say that the professional material produced by the Hungarian Erdélyi Kopó Club established the preparation of this presentation. So what is being called on the authors to see why the material is not technically sound is in question, since, once again, it was a professional organisation that prepared the preparatory and grounding material for this. I would like to continue to respond to the things that Mr Steinmetz has raised. They shoot the dogs, and other similar horror stories have been told, bigger body, and easier to hit this dog. Hunting is regulated by very serious and very precise rules. Obviously, there are hunting accidents when these rules are not respected. So you can shoot a dog on a hunt, so if you're breaking the rules, you don't follow the rules. Unfortunately, there is one who is irregular, but if someone follows the rules, this regulation begins by recognizing the beast, judging it, so it must be decided that it can be fired, and if it can be fired, then it can be fired. So if in this dangerous plant, which we call hunting, someone follows the rules, then such anomalies cannot occur. What I would like to point out is that every hunt has a hunter who can decide whether he can take part in that hunt, whether he is a Transylvanian hound or not, in what form he can take part, what kind of leader he can take part in, what kind of hunter he can take part in. Therefore, this amendment is not binding on hunting but provides an opportunity. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-10-06-103	Honourable Members, Would anyone else like to take advantage of the opportunity to speak? [[No signal.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I will ask the author, in this case, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, if he wishes to reflect. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, please.
u2020-10-06-104	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to thank everyone who has tried to do this in the spirit of cooperation and professionalism in the debate. I would also like to thank my colleague Béla Dankó, Ádám Steinmetz, Zoltán Magyar, Ágnes Vadai, László Keresztes, László Varga and Olivio Kocsis-Cake. I think that Mr.István Simicskó's commitment to saving indigenous breeds of dogs, breed breeding, his professionalism, as he was the author of several studies in the past, is not questionable. So, by closing the political debate between us quickly, I would like to reject the accusations that this bill was motivated by some ulterior interest or intention. I think that Mr Group Leader's professional work and commitment on this subject is well known to all of us; if not, I recommend it because it is a wide range of literature. We can say that, and our common goal is to save this breed, because we are talking about the most endangered species of dogs from Hungary. Of course, the numbers you have said or the numbers described in the explanatory statement are registered 24 times a year, so it could be ticked in the next ten years, but this will not solve it. This will lead to the disappearance of this native Hungarian breed of dogs, and this national treasure will disappear from Hungary, according to all of us. I think we have a shared responsibility in this. It is also our duty to save him from hunting, cultural history, and therefore we have a shared responsibility. I think that this current bill is a good direction in this, as many of you have said that the professionals you are asking, or the dog keepers and hunters you are asking, farmers have said that this could be suitable for this, by the way. By the way, Congresswoman Varga-Damm, who, of course, is no longer here, has given one answer to the fact that, in the current situation, 10 percent of the number of dogs in the herd is used for hunting. This is precisely the reason that we would like to open, so that we can use a higher percentage, so that more people can hold Transylvanian hounds, as there is a huge literature on breeding, training, clubs formed, associations, NGOs that only deal with breeding, training and training of Transylvanian hounds. This is exactly what we want to open, precisely this direction, the first step in saving it and spreading it more widely. That is why I think that we should go towards usability, as my fellow Member Danko has already said. I agree with you that the provisions of the previous OGY Decision should be reviewed from time to time and should be discussed. I think it's a commission task, and I suggest that the Committee on Agriculture be approached with this question, because I think it's a good idea, and we're looking at it from time to time. But nothing happened, that's not true, because there were serious genetic conservation programs. A programme of HUF 12 billion was launched last year to preserve Hungarian indigenous plant and animal species. This year the nearly half-hour educational and nature film, which presents the nine native Hungarian breeds of dogs, was presented this year. The plant diversification gene bank has one of the largest farms in the world, by the way, Hungary has one of the largest holdings in the world, and I think that these gene conservation programs play a very, very important role in carrying on this breed breeding that you have been talking about, which you have been asking for. So, good news, I'd like to report that there is such a program, that this programme is working, and two years ago, the government assigned a source of 12 billion dollars to this important task. I also agree with the campaigns, Congressman. Otherwise, I think it is basically a civic organizational task to say this responsibility and to spread breed breeding. This is precisely why the Association of the Associations of Ebony Farmers, the various organisations are also supported by the government, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Civil Fund for the design and conduct of similar attitudes or campaigns, so there is one now, and I think it is important to involve these value-making, safekeeping civil society organisations. Congresswoman Varga-Damm has already said 10 percent. When someone, a Member, has all the criticisms of the law about why we present it now, after ten years of government, or eight years after the previous law, then I will rest assured, because then there is nothing wrong with the substance, the thoughtfulness, if this criticism is why now. The congresswoman also mentioned swine fever, so let me say that this is an industry employing 300,000 people, Hungarian pig exports and the Hungarian manufacturing industry employing 300,000 people, and she believes that this industry should be put at risk by various irresponsible decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, The major swine fever epidemic in 1972 at that time caused harm to Hungary for HUF 3.5 billion. Can you imagine the amount that would be now if we let this disease spread, if this 300,000 people were at risk, and I would add, 300,000 families' livelihoods were to be put at risk in the pig industry. I think that these decisions that we made earlier are correct and that my fellow Member Varga-Damm criticized. Thank you all for your comments. Thank you all for your arguments in the professional debate. I agree with the review, I agree with the various dialogues, but I think, and I think that this is partly the feedback you have received, that many people from the profession say that this is a good direction that we should start; I think it is important. I ask you that in the next vote, when we will vote on this law, we all support it. Thank you very much for your comments. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]] [[14.50]]
u2020-10-06-105	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the submission of livestock farmers' day until closure. The submission submitted by Mr Horváth István, Mr Fidesz, is H/13099. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr István Horváth, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I propose, by my individual submission, that the day of St. Michael, 29 September, be declared the day of the livestock farmers in this House. The purpose of my motion is to draw attention to the sacrifices and hardships of tens of thousands of livestock workers, which they have to carry out every day for each day of the year, both for 365 days a day. The cattle must be fed every day, cared for, cared for, cared for, be the holiday, be the weekend, be it any day of the year. In view of our historical traditions, the proposal for a resolution was presented on St. Michael's Day, which marked 29 September as the day of animal husbandry. With the day of animal breeding, we wish to pay tribute to the traditions of our ancestors, the value-making work of Hungarian livestock farmers for centuries, and to revive the solemn atmosphere that used to surround Saint Michael's day as the day of reckoning. According to the tradition, the animals were driven back to pasture on St. George's Day and the shepherds were counted. On St. Michael's day, they often held a fair day in order to enable shepherds to complete their equipment. Every year we have something to thank for. We should thank you for having enough meat, milk, eggs and other delicacies on every table next to bread, thanks to the work of Hungarian livestock farmers. Such a holiday is also a good occasion for social thinking, for it is good to remind today's people who are separated from agriculture how much work and sacrifice the animal products come to the table. On this day, besides the ceremony, there is also an opportunity to strengthen the farming profession. Presentations, exhibitions and meetings on livestock breeding, livestock farming, livestock farmers on St. Michael's Day would also help to cooperate with them. The Committee on Agriculture has negotiated and unanimously supported the motion. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the initiative that we have before us. Respect for the country, respect for the keepers. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-06-107	Thank you very much. I'll ask Secretary Farkas if he'd like to speak now. [[On behalf of Sándor Farkas:]] You have the floor.
u2020-10-06-108	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear rapporteur, I think that, now that we are in the epidemic period, we may not be able to draw any more attention to the importance of the work that people, farmers and farmers are doing in livestock and agriculture at this time. Although it is natural for farmers and farmers to work every day of the year, it has been proven, and I think this is the best example of how strategic Hungarian agriculture has become. This is the time when in recent months and perhaps in the coming months everyone has access to adequate food, adequate food, adequate safe food, and in this case also in a significant part the day of the livestock farmers presented is also about livestock farmers. Earth XXI. Agriculture and animal husbandry have a key role to play in supplying its growing humanity in the century, for it is a scientific fact that man, as a biological being, needs animal proteins, i.e. meat, milk, eggs, even if some fashion trends try to prove the opposite a few times, which then always fails over time, and fortunately, normal food consumption continues. Fortunately, the consumption of all animal products in our country increases year after year without exception, but not all food and not all meat is typical. Rather, the correct term is the extent to which it grows, but it grows. Domestic livestock farming tries to meet the increased expectations and even to meet them well. The value of the sector is increasing year after year, with a huge share of the goods produced in Hungary over a year, and even the epidemic situation has not been able to significantly break this positive process, and to some extent we have been able to strengthen it. To talk widely about the results of livestock production and the work of livestock farmers, involving all layers of society, we need a prominent day and a celebration this year. The livestock farmer not only produces horses, cattle, sheep and poultry, but also produces important food materials for all of us, taking responsibility for the environment, paying attention to biodiversity and being part of the preservation of the cultural landscape. But I'll keep going. Animal husbandry is an important part of European and Hungarian history and culture. Someone has to introduce my treasure, the Hungarian wonder mare, the Hungarian grey cow of the plains, the XXI. The mangalica pig, or the international and now we return to the dogs, the stars of dog exhibitions, or the Hungarian vizsla? But there are also common values, the Hungaricums, among which we find, for example, the sausages of Gyula and Csaba, which became special not only because of the unique technology but also because of the meat of the animals raised on Hungarian soil. These are all the fruits of the day-to-day work of domestic livestock farmers. And the expression of everyday life is literally understood. Every day on weekdays, because the pig must be fed at Christmas, the horse must also be discharged on 1 May, and the sheep may even have to be mowed during a heat alarm, even though it is a little late. Believe me, I am a part of the fact that there are few sectors in the economy that use people as much as livestock. The participants in this, the Hungarian livestock farmers, therefore deserve a holiday. But this is also needed by the average person today, who is rightly discouraged by the half - truth news that label livestock as polluting and meat consumption as unhealthy. A forum for a wider dissemination of moderate but conscious nutritional thesis of scientific dissemination should be found. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, vice-president of the National Assembly, takes the chair.]] This day may also be important for the participants of the profession, as the performances, host meetings, exhibitions, events, animal shows, animal fairs, information exchange will be used to create animal husbandry supported by modern digital techniques. Today, livestock breeding is more than just a stable, more than a barn, more than an animal, now using and possessing the most advanced technologies in these farms at farmers and farmers. September 29th, the day of St. Michael we are a few days past it may be particularly suitable for this, because in grazing livestock, we have for centuries counted two days, one of St. George's days, 23 April, when the cattle are driven out, the other is the feast of St. Michael, when the cattle are collected from the pasture. This day is also the time of reckoning, for it was the time when the canes, shepherds, shepherds, and shepherds took the balance of their annual work, and gave their masters an account of the growth and performance of the stock. [[15.00]] Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, As has been said, I would ask you to support this decision by your contributions, suggestions and votes. Allow me to think about the previous item, which is different from the item on the agenda for a moment, and I did not have the opportunity to respond to a few things at the end, but I would like to note that we have a livestock law, pure-bredness in livestock farming organisations and, last but not least, the programme of breed breeding are and make up these organisations. This is in the new livestock law, which we have adopted together with you in the last year. The same applies to professional work, whether livestock animals or animals kept for pleasure or other entertainment. So these organizations have a professional background. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-06-109	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Béla Dankó, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Allow me to begin my speech with a little fun, namely, a contemporary and local version of the animal husbandry day was recorded by Tolna County's chief physicist in the 19th century. In the middle of the century, however, there are no zehs in our county, however, it is customary that at St. Michael's Day every year all Juhász, be it on Simontorny's accountant or Bujtar's part, and partly in Fehérvár, they flock, hold a mass there, and otherwise have fun for about three days. It is not new, therefore, that they are celebrating the keepers of animals, not undeserved, because I think they are doing a very serious job in agriculture. Despite the increasing mechanisation rate in this area, agriculture accounts for 5 percent of employment in Hungary. In addition to the construction sector, agriculture is one of the driving sectors of GDP growth. Here, during the time of the coronal virus, we have experienced how vulnerable a person is, and considering our lives, things that seemed very important earlier have turned out to us that they are not important at all, but we have also seen that satisfying and providing basic needs is very, very important in our lives. And here comes among other things the livestock farmers, who, building up a lot of knowledge and doing a lot of work, provide the country with healthy food. I think that this is in any way an activity that needs to be spanned, they deserve special attention, they deserve respect, they deserve to have much greater social recognition, and I think that such a gesture, that we devote a special day to their activities, can help this social shift. I call on the fellow Members to support this proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-06-111	Thank you. I now give the floor to Zoltán Magyar, the lead speaker of Jobbik's group. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Fellow Members! Maybe I won't tell you a big secret or a surprise that the Jobbik faction will be able to support this proposal, as we did before, either on the farmers' day or on other similar memorial days. We too believe that the work of livestock farmers deserves to be remembered one day each year. And it is important not only from their point of view, but also a very important aspect is to create opportunities for the urban population increasingly away from living in rural areas, food production, at events that occur in connection with such a day of memory, to learn how food is produced, where it comes from, which is then placed on their plate every day. So from this approach, too, I think it is important to vote and start a day like this together. But I also have to add that livestock farmers would have expected more from the government than on such a memorial day, not just now, not only in connection with this law, but also, say, in the last decade. If we look at the fact that in 2010 the national rural strategy as the country's constitution was finally brought to light, of course, it was not dared to bring it to Parliament, but it was accepted at a government meeting, so that a much more grandiose, much more forward-looking vision, a much more positive vision of the future, was presented to us at the current state of the government and the current situation of livestock farming. Unfortunately, nothing has been achieved from this national rural strategy, not a word, I can say. All we need to do is to take apart livestock and look at some of these sectors, some species, and see how their situation is today. Perhaps poultry farming in our country, which has been relatively stable for many years, and the workers in it have not had much to complain about until the avian flu hit our country in multiple waves and caused market difficulties. But, unfortunately, the situation of the pig has not improved in our country compared to previous great desires, as the cattle situation is, in fact, stagnating; it is somewhat better than the previous milk crises, but it is certainly not rosy and forward-looking. We cannot see any progress in the sheep sector. In horse breeding, I have to say that our country's former, registered standards at European level are virtually nowhere. Today we are talking about the fact that our northern neighbor, Slovakia, can ride exactly twice as many horses as in Hungary. So the illusions about this are that we Hungarians imagine ourselves as a kind of horse nation, for example, this is the only data that puts us in a good position, that there are very serious shortcomings here, and I would like to draw attention to government responsibility here as well. But we could talk, if it's animal husbandry, even though it's a sideline, but also the position of beekeepers. You have to say that we're past 24 hours, basically the beekeepers are in danger. We have talked a lot here in the walls of this House about the origin of this set of problems, the Chinese fake honey, the dumping of repackaged goods and their lack of appreciation at all. As a reaction, we have received a thousand forints/hiver's support now for beekeepers, Mr. Secretary of State, so it will take a lot more than that if they are serious about saving Hungarian beekeepers. But we could also talk about freshwater fish, aquaculture. Even in the '70s, Hungary represented such a high level that experts from practically dozens of countries came here to learn this profession, and they still operate, especially in southern Europe and Eastern Europe, fish farming plants that, based on the Hungarian model, and often even using contemporary tools, try to maintain and cultivate freshwater fish farming at home, in their home country. Compared to this, we are now at this point that the consumption of Hungarian fish per capita is the driving force of Europe. If we ate five times as many fish as we do now in a given year, we would be able to reach the European average, while we are well aware of the positive physiological impact that fish consumption would otherwise have. But we could also talk about the breeding of pet animals. I am glad to remember that the Hungarian vizsla really appeared as a kind of admired star of international dog exhibitions, but unfortunately today we are more likely to enter the Western European press on dog topics with the fact that we have managed to expose a breeding colony, which is positive, of course, that we have exposed it, but then it turns out that for 15-20 years these truly inhuman and animal welfare breeding sites have been operating here, hiding in our country, which reflects very badly not only on Hungary but also on decent dog farmers. [[15.10]] So in a completely different way, but here too, the Hungarian government would have serious business to do. These are all areas that would expect help, would expect much more attention and would expect the government to really give these sectors a helping hand compared to previous promises. We can also remember the sounds of promises where it was said that they would try to improve slightly, restore and form a healthier balance of crop production and livestock production. However, the figures we have seen in this regard do not indicate that we have moved in this direction. So arable crops continue to dominate, and we continue to go in the direction of being repressed, if you look at the balance pair as livestock farming. Of course, this does not justify that this proposal is not necessary, would not be positive and should not be supported. As I have said, we will support it, but we would expect that in the other areas, not only are there real substantive proposals, which can be sold well in communication, but are not really very important, but also those that, as a result, will significantly improve the quality of living in the Hungarian countryside and the quality of rural life. At last, the Hungarian village should not be a curse word, not a symbol of backwardness, but should regain its old light, and indeed mean that the child born in the smallest Hungarian settlement should have the same or rather the same possibility of progress as a child born in Budapest. This is indeed closely linked to livestock farming, because this activity, which is virtually unthinkable in a larger settlement, would have a positive impact on the Hungarian countryside. I urge my fellow Members here to support this noble proposal, and to bring every year, with colourful programmes, the everyday lives of livestock farmers closer to ordinary people and to honour them with this day, and to bring real, meaningful proposals that affect their everyday lives to the House. That's what we'd be happy to accept. Thank you for the opportunity.
u2020-10-06-113	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Földi, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group. Here you go, notary.
u2020-10-06-114	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Due to the coronal virus epidemic, many things stopped in this country in the spring, but agriculture as one of the most important strategic sectors of our country had to operate during this difficult period. It has become clear that it is essential to maintain a stable functioning of agriculture and the food industry, as continuity of food supply must also be ensured during an epidemic. Therefore, the government has taken a number of measures in the event of an emergency. Among other things, within the framework of the national food economic crisis management programme, the government provided an additional HUF 25 billion from the economic security fund to the agricultural portfolio. Support applications for the development of livestock farms can be submitted from 1 October, with a budget of HUF 50 billion. It is also vital for the sector that, in addition to developments, the portfolio also supports the survival of indigenous and endangered species. My fellow Members who spoke before me on the proposal for a decision have already summarised the reasons for the proposal's legitimacy, but let me mention some important facts. The justification of the proposal also highlights that the Hungarian people are originally a nation of livestock production. Animal husbandry is one of the professions that can only be carried out with enormous sacrifice because of its great time and labour demand. Work in this sector requires 24 hours of responsible service, no Easter, no Christmas, no Saturday, no Sunday. To date, those who pursue this profession have not received the recognition that the sacrifice, challenge and work that the livestock farmer is taking responsibility and doing throughout his life would be a worthy celebration of society. I don't know if that's true, but whoever's been to Australia told me that if they go into town, the city man will give them to you in the store, in the post office, because he knows how much work this man does, and he's making food for us townspeople. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, I think that these people also deserve a day a year when we can honor their work, celebrate the responsible work, humble activity and exemplary sacrifice of livestock farmers. KDNP supports the adoption of the proposal for a decision. I'm asking for your support. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-06-115	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, I also think that this proposal will not be the biggest debate today. There was one that, surprisingly, triggered a greater debate, and there was one that really affected Hungarian society in a very large number. By the way, this proposal is the same, because very, very many people work in agriculture, a lot of people work as livestock farmers in Hungary even to this day, and I think that if we recognise their work with a symbolic proposal, of course every faction can identify with this, so the faction of the MSZP can identify. Perhaps the day is also appropriate, as it is the turn of the marketing year, the day of the recovery of animals from pasture, even if the country celebrated something else on 29 September in previous years. So this can be supported. I also agree that we should like to thank Hungarian livestock farmers for the sacrifice they have made, especially during the outbreak of the Crown Virus. They did this for the sake of the national economy, but I also think it is for the sake of the country's safe food supply. That is precisely why I say that the symbolic step is important, but in itself it is not enough. I would not mention these in length, as we have had countless debates here in the House on the abuses of recent years and on the financing problems of recent years, and before me, for example, Zoltán Magyar pointed out some of these issues correctly. By the way, I am telling you to look over and over again at what you can do to help livestock farmers in practice, how you can really target the resources and developments that can help them do their job. Let me refer once again to an earlier initiative from the group or representatives of the MSZP, on the initiative of our former fellow Member Zoltán Gőgös, which has since been supported by many. It is clear that it would also have a positive impact on prices in part and that it is also important for producers and farmers to reduce the VAT on basic foods, which, although introduced for certain product types, should be introduced as widely as possible. We have proposed a reduced VAT rate of 5% in this respect. Let me say that, while we are talking about Hungarian livestock farmers, it is possible to put such legislation in such a way that it is particularly beneficial for domestic livestock farmers, to define a product range that would indeed help the Hungarian national economy. I'm thinking of a kind of protectionist move, obviously, in these difficult times, it might be forward-looking. Yes, there has been some progress in this area, but I think that we would have been much further ahead if this had been adopted when the original proposal was drafted, around 2012-13. Indeed, many hundreds of thousands of Hungarian voters also supported this by signing it, because at the time we collected signatures for this in a petition. If this were to be adopted then, we might have moved forward today, and then in practice, Parliament could have been very helpful to Hungarian livestock farmers, not only in such a symbolic way. But the presentation itself will, of course, be supported by our faction. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-06-117	Thank you. I now give the floor to Agnes Vadai, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go. [[15.20]]
u2020-10-06-118	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My late father, who was a shepherding director, knew exactly how hard it was to be a farmer. He, like all the fanatic farmers in a good sense, worked for the last minute of his life in this sector. From his narrative and his daily hard work, I saw what kind of work these people are trying to do in Hungarian agriculture. Of course, I had the pleasure of seeing with my own eyes what it means to go out to that hotel on Christmas, Easter, Saturday, Sunday or any holiday, because the animal does not know that it is a holiday, it is Christmas, and they are giving presents. He needs to be fed, he needs to be watered. In the old days it was quite different, today there are more modern technologies in agriculture, but animals still need to be watched. The real farmer goes out among his animals even if it works with a much more modern technique than it did 30-40 years ago. Of course, and there was no debate here between Members, it is important to remember the livestock farmers. I would add that I do not always like these commemorative days, because this limits us to one day, while I think that those working in Hungarian agriculture deserve the respect of this country, mine, for sure every day. Nevertheless, I do not believe that this Memorial Day is what is best for livestock or agriculture in general, that it is the most important now, that this issue is the most important now, that there should be such a memorial day. We believe that, in terms of agriculture, it is necessary to ensure that this is not just a playground for a narrow elite, but indeed a great common one, in which everyone has the same rights. If we are to help agriculture and, in particular, livestock farmers, we need to set very clear objectives on the basis of the professional recommendations and implement them. In recent years we have been a country of 7 or 10 million pigs, there is already a national meat pigeon programme, and we know that in the rabbit sector, for example, the goal is to achieve 7 million slaughter animals. I suggest that today an article was published on 24.hu that should be read by everyone. We have to forget about the pig sector, where, of course, experts from the sector are invited to speak, who say that despite the amount of money that has been poured into the pig sector, we cannot be competitive. Very good goals have been set in recent years. I'm sure you know how many times I've asked you about these things, because, in addition to setting targets, you should know the way there and see that these goals are being achieved. In the meantime, of course, even as a simple consumer, we find that cheap import products are a constant threat to Hungarian producers and farmers, and in many cases you have acted with a word of power against supermarket chains, so that they do not sell cheaper food than Hungarians. Congressman Varga mentioned the question of VAT on basic foods, where it was proposed to reduce the VAT on basic foods to 5%. The government parties had the idea that this would be a HUF 140-150 billion hole in the budget. But if we compare it to the fact that Zala Zone is based on 158 billion and the Budapest-Belgrád railway is based on 1000 billion forints, then I think it would be worth considering the government goals in this respect. After all, there was no debate between us about how important Hungarian agriculture is to us not only because it is Hungarian, not only because it gives us food, but because anyone who buys Hungary and we see a campaign for it knows exactly what different taste Hungarian agricultural products can have. If we really want to acknowledge the livestock farmers and the sacrifice they are doing for us and for this country, then I think the following things should be done. First of all, to create an appropriate support system that really helps those in distress. Proposals should be evaluated in time, not in 300-400 days. During the pandemic, agriculture should have been managed more efficiently and quickly. I think, of course, we have heard and read about the government's help, but we would have needed much faster and more effective help than that. The actors in agriculture should be kept informed of new, modern technologies and opportunities. This article, this article, must forget the peasant nostalgia, which appeared on 24.hu, shows the technological disadvantage of Hungarian producers. For example, it could be helpful to help the agricultural sector by not telling livestock farmers that the person who has not been able to submit his development ideas for the new livestock farms' application because of the very high minimum support levels can be reassured because the managing authority of the rural development programme is planning to launch a new call for proposals for the small-scale development of livestock farms, whose preparatory work has already started on the basis of the Minister's information. It is therefore very important to celebrate them, to take care of them, to respect those who can provide healthy food on our table. It may not be necessary to limit them to just one day, I think it is worthwhile to deal with them every day, precisely because they do very hard work for us and need to see and read as many opportunities as possible, modernisation, forward-looking information and truly implementation programmes related to strategic professional goals. From here I would like to thank all those who work in agriculture for doing this job, without them there would not be such bread, without them there would not be such food on the table, so we, in spite of our reservations, along with these comments and criticisms, are positive about this proposal for a resolution. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-06-119	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. So I give the floor to Andrea Varga-Damm.
u2020-10-06-120	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The reason I come up here is because when the videos are watched by the citizens on Facebook or anywhere else, I get the entries in order where the other Members are around me. They don't typically sit around me, so if I tell you from here, at least you can't see that. So I don't want to be involved, I'm just doing this to protect the authority of the Parliament. The proposal for a decision on livestock farmers' day is, of course, to be supported, eligible, and there is no question that I myself will do so with my vote in favour. It is also a great pleasure for me because it was presented on my daughter's 20th birthday, so I will not forget that on my child's birthday we are also celebrating the day of livestock farmers. But what is very important is that this symbolic proposal has arrived at the House to look at the last 30 years, because among our ranks, among our Members, there are 41 pro-government representatives sitting in Parliament's benches during the first decade of the regime change, and they have contributed, whether by action or by omission, to the extremely unfavourable situation in the livestock sector that has now emerged. The justification set out in the proposal is very nice, it is very gratifying that the government wishes to commemorate livestock farmers in this way every day, but I do feel that this is a symbolic calming of workers in the sector because of the lack of state management necessary for effective structural change. The agricultural sector, which had already experienced signs of crisis in the 1990s, became increasingly difficult, the vast majority of agricultural holdings fell apart, most of the land was owned by private property, and most of the land was not cultivated by the owners. This alone would not have been a problem if government activities had been assigned to the changes, but unfortunately in that period the selection of members of the government was essentially from among the piarist schoolmates or from the high school students, which were basically the criteria. The decline in domestic consumption due to the lack of capital for farmers, the lack of organisation of production and, in particular, the fall in the standard of living in the first half of the 1990s resulted in an unsold quantity of certain products, which further deteriorated the already low profitability. Several old-new farmers were forced to liquidate their economies due to low incomes, so the number of players in the sector decreased sharply by the end of the 1990s. [[15.30]] The performance of agriculture dropped most between 90 and 2007, its weight in the national economy decreased to such an extent that both its contribution to gross added value and the employment rate decreased to a third, i.e. 4.2 percent of the number of employees and 4.7 percent of GDP-related participation. Participation in investments fell from 8.7 percent to 3.7 percent. The number of people employed in agriculture also decreased significantly, but what was worse, the age structure: after the census in 2005 the microcensus showed a huge increase in the proportion of people over 60 years of age. Due to the lack of necessary investment, the ability of agriculture to provide traction has not changed, while a significant part of it has become the property of individual farms. From 90 to 2007, the gross production value of agriculture decreased by 30 percent, including livestock farming by 40 percent. Based on the 2007 economic structure survey, only 7000 of the 626 thousand farms were organisations and 619 thousand were individual farmers. The number of former enterprises, i.e. the number of enterprises, has tripled, but the number of individual holdings has fallen by 40 percent. More than half of the individual farms produced only for their own consumption, nearly one third of them were able to sell the surplus, and only 16 percent were those whose sales were the primary objective of production. The impact of the change of agricultural systems and the loss of markets have affected livestock farming the most. While 70 percent of the volume of production has become the year, please pay attention now, fellow Members. And the buy-in went down to 50 percent. That was really the big dagger stab. At the end of 2007, there were only a hundred businesses in the food industry where revenues exceeded HUF 4 billion and employed at least 49 people. It's a very small number. The majority of Hungarian agriculture and food industry products are placed on the domestic market, and in the first decade, after the change of regime, the structure of food consumption was transformed because the standard of living deteriorated dramatically, and the consumption of meat and dairy products decreased, as these products were generally not cheap compared to the level of income. And then he added that the governments of the first decades had unlimited access to food that could be considered as garbage, did not impose protective duties, and the controls were not effective. After a decade of stagnation, from 2004 onwards, pay attention to the value of livestock production. It's even more reduced. We thought that, from the time we joined the EU, agricultural subsidies would increase the production of the product with EU accession. Compared to this, the share of agricultural and food products has also decreased throughout the country's exports. The number of cattle and pigs per 100 hectares of agricultural land was significantly lower than the EU-27 average, cattle was the last and pig stock was in the 11th place. This is the time when we say that when we pass the beautiful fields in the countryside, I remember many times that these should be full of animals and grazing animals, because this country is exactly where this sector could flourish, and we would meet animals on the road and on the field, but unfortunately it is not so. The importance of the food economy beyond the ability to generate income is strategic in the supply of food to the population and in the preservation of the rural population. Of course, the farming problems of agriculture in the 1980s created negative conditions for the 1990s, because they practically drained this sector, they dismantled large farms. I often think that there was some willfulness in this, and there were persistent signs of dysfunction in these plants. And then came the privatisation of the '90s, which was shameful, unplanned, hasty, professional aspects were completely excluded, and the point was that people near the power would certainly get a fortune out of the common, which in the long term could generate significant income without professional competence. So, as I said, the volume of livestock production has been steadily decreasing since 90. Entry into the Union was a very long wait for farmers, because farmers thought that there would be predictable conditions, that the payments of EU and national funds would be smooth, but after the establishment of the appropriate institutional system was lacking, they delayed, and the aid did not reach the farmers in time. In practice, the political forces use support to keep farmers on a short leash, if they raise their voice with criticism of the system, or if they do not receive it at all, or if they receive subsidies late. Compared to 1990, the gross production volume of industry has increased by two and a half times in Hungary, we are talking about an agricultural country. Compared to this, agriculture did not grow but decreased by 30 percent. We are talking about a country where every second person should live in agriculture based on his talents. I wish to ourselves, the livestock farmers and all Hungarian citizens, that if this wonderful day, the day of the livestock farmers, will be created by Parliament, then not just symbolic days of the year, but every day of the year, let us think that the support of this sector can significantly improve the quality of life of all our Hungarian countrymen. Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-06-121	Thank you. Now the representative of the government has indicated that he wishes to speak, so I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-122	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, In recent moments, we have heard of a 30- or 40-year-old look back, but I think that when we talk about the day of livestock farmers, we give respect to the people who live and work today, who actually work in animal husbandry, they bring with them an extremely difficult legacy. We know the pitfalls of the system change and the previous period, in which perhaps it was indeed the livestock sector that became extremely hectic and fluctuating in the activity, and it was extremely difficult to adapt to the changed circumstances. However, we can say that, and I would like to say this, and this may sound a little strange in this House, Hungarian agriculture is a difficult sector of livestock farming. I do not know what this means when it comes to the industrial side that this is the most difficult sector in agriculture. How people can work here today, in this sector, I believe that today the right conditions are already in a large part, and I could even say that the agricultural government or agricultural governments have done a great deal, perhaps I can put it this way. I would just like to point out to the attention of the critics that on 1 October we are now launching a HUF 50 billion development resource for the modernisation of livestock farms, which is virtually not 50 billion, but more than double that, because 50 percent of this is development aid, so in this respect it is a 100 billion development opportunity. [[Continue in 154/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Tuesday 6 October 2020 154/2. Number Parliamentary Diary A lot of people have already applied for this, and they're gonna come forward, and if there's any further applications, we might even be able to expand this source. But at the same time this is just a point, if I may put it this way, this is the ITC 7, and I'm sure in this business that it says something to a lot of people, and it may not be any less in violation of you here. There have also been six IDA applications. The short cut of the modernisation of livestock farms is the IÁK, and in this last decade hundreds of billions of HUF have been applied for for the development of farms and the development of welfare systems there, so to speak. This means that the agricultural government has already invested enormous amounts in this sector, and I would like it to continue to be so. Now, during the Covid epidemic, only HUF 11.5 billion was paid specifically to compensate for possible losses and disadvantages, and a significant part of this has already been paid or paid in the days, contrary to criticism. So I can say that I would like to mention one more thing to those earlier criticisms of livestock production, that there are fewer numbers, that there is less GDP, that there is less GDP. [[15.40]] I do not want to start an agricultural dispute in Parliament, but when we talk about pigs, we know that we are both in pigs and poultry at the end of an extremely critical period, perhaps in the middle, when various animal diseases cause very serious production, housing and market disturbances, I would rather approach it from another side. Ladies and gentlemen, At a time when both I and others may refer to the period of regime change, that there were 10 million pigs in Hungary, I would like to ask you again: where were these pigs? A significant part of the village houses, stables. And today, if we go through a village, we basically can't find any pigs. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's the problem!]] Why is that? People live better, want to do less of this kind of activity, and the focus has shifted to specialised large farms. So from this point of view, you can talk about 10 million pigs, but if you don't have the intention, and you don't have the intention, I can say that out of practice, you don't have to look for that. It is necessary to look for the opportunities that we can use Hungarian and foreign breeds with Hungarian indigenous breeds or extremely good indicators on the pig market in the long term, if we do not have disease, to show up persistently. So I'm saying I don't want to open up a debate in this, but it's an extremely nuanced story, a number of old stories, I would say, with a historical relationship. When we talk about the development and development of the agricultural sector or its potential, the withdrawal of capital still exists in the agricultural sector, due to land lease conditions. We know that if you do not farm in your own territory, but in rented areas, the rent is due to the landlord, which is largely out of the sector, rather than being reclaimed. We will certainly not be able to resolve this in a few years' time, but we are also trying, among other things, to eliminate undivided land, although this can only solve one detail so that as many areas as possible are directly owned by farmers and farmers, because then this so-called extra cost will not come out of the sector, but can be used for its own sectoral development. I believe that this is what we will have to look at in the long term, and I am sure that our indicators will be much better. I would like to say very strongly that there is also a ratio between livestock production and livestock production: there is a very serious development in technology, there is a significant improvement in the use of techniques and hopefully also in professional training. For me, one of my commas is that one of the points of the break-out of Hungarian agriculture is the proper training of professionals. Many believed, and I do not want to offend anyone during the change of regime, if they receive two or three acres or acres of land, and then they have the appropriate professional skills. That time has passed long ago, and today it is necessary to have sufficient professional skills to continue an adequate and efficient agricultural production. This requires adequate, so to speak, property sizes in a good sense. Traditional agricultural activity on two or three hectares is no longer effective. And that requires the necessary expertise to calculate how long the activity, the investment, the investment, the development, what benefits, what returns, what income it may have. This is more than a profession, and when we talk about agriculture and I finish it, it should only be regarded as a part of the professional issue, who deals with agriculture, as a way of life. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties. It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-10-06-123	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now the two-minute speeches. Before I give the floor to the first speaker, I would like to signal to my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, that I cannot give him the floor in this round, because our fellow Member Zoltán Balczó has already applied from the Group of Jobbik. I give the floor to Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-06-124	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State has said that he does not want to initiate an agricultural dispute in this House. I think, Mr Secretary of State, the very thing that should be initiated in this House is that there should be a substantive debate on these issues. Basically, I also wanted to make a two-minute comment, a suggestion that if there is already such a day, the day of livestock farmers, which we support ourselves, it would also be worth making this a day of reckoning or reckoning, that every year, if there is such a day, when we remember people who really do a lot in this sector and really do a lot of work on a daily basis, we also appreciate what results we achieve or what problems we face. I agree with Mr State Secretary from a slightly different perspective, this is not only a professional issue, this is an important political issue in Hungary. I do not know how to do this, and I do not speak to it from this point of view, but from the point of view that the Hungarian agricultural sector can be a break-out point for the Hungarian economy. And it would be worth finding, as far as possible, some national consensus in this area, as it does not bring fruit from one year to another. So, yes, I think there is a place, Mr State Secretary, for us to discuss this issue not only within the framework of a commission, but also within such parliamentary frameworks, because we are indeed dealing with professionals, but we are talking about modernisation, improvements and inventions. Unbelievable developments, inventions are linked to the work of Hungarian agricultural engineers and researchers, and these are not useful; there are times when this only has marketing, sometimes when it has other problems. Therefore, I propose that we use this opportunity once a year to talk about problems, challenges and results, and then not only will it be a moral recognition of livestock farmers, but hopefully there will also be financial recognition of their work, which I think will be a good thing if they both go together. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-10-06-125	Thank you. I now give the floor to our fellow Member, Zoltán Balczó, from Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-06-126	Mr President, thank you for the floor. We are currently discussing a symbolic and otherwise very important agenda for the introduction of the day of livestock farmers, with which Parliament and indirectly the Hungarian society express their recognition. However, I am of the opinion that this agenda is not suitable for discussing the whole problem of agriculture here; that we, the opposition, will tell you what else needs to be done, the government side will tell you the results. I propose that if the opposition initiates a political debate on the situation of agriculture, then I think Deputy Minister Sándor Farkas will make this political debate happen in substance, that Fidesz be present and that this is a real debate. That's why I asked for the floor. I wouldn't have asked for a word because I didn't want to expand the subject either, but MEP László Földi highlighted the support of indigenous livestock farmers as a great achievement. I have come to you three times with my fellow Member, Zoltán Magyar, Minister of State, on the application for conservation of genetic resources of protected indigenous and endangered species. Three times! The breeders have been promised because the payments have been cancelled. My acquaintance was not only one of the breeders, but he played an important role in this organization. He was praised by the Minister for receiving him on this matter on Friday morning. He was decorated by the Fidesz administration. And I checked, I called, I sent a text, yes, indeed, even the payments due in 2018 have not been made to all the people he's been in contact with. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] And the problem with that is that there were those who had to eliminate the stock because of the missed payments. [[The president's ringing again.]] Thank you very much.
u2020-10-06-127	Thank you. I now give the floor to Agnes Vadai, a representative of DK. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the day of livestock farmers or farmers' day or the day of agriculture, or every such day, is not only suitable for the way it has been said here to show our respect, although I have indicated that I think it is worth expressing this respect every day, but also for such discussions, such debates, even on the pretext of this. [[15.50]] Perhaps because we have talked a great deal about agriculture, whether in plenary or, let us say, in writing with the agricultural purse, it is not felt that we are dealing with this matter in so much detail. I understand a lot of things about the Secretary of State, I'm not sure we agree, but I understand, but let me highlight two things. One is the question of assessing proposals. The 300-400-day treatment period is simply not acceptable. It will not help livestock farmers if they tell them that IT IS, if they say that such a proposal, a proposal, if the evaluation is over the course of the year, will obviously not help to have the kind of development that we all want. This must be changed in order to ensure that Hungarian livestock production is effective, and people could be encouraged to join livestock if they did not actually see this kind of suffering on the side of livestock. Secondly, I must say that I am immensely pleased that Mr State Secretary said that professionals are important in the sector and that it is not good to have geeks trying to work in Hungarian agriculture as well. I wish the previous government leadership had confessed when the state lands, for example, were taken away from livestock farmers in the vicinity of Námiván, and they gave it to goblins who had political ties! I would just like to say this because we, who live in that area, knew exactly who they were who really were in animal husbandry and who they were hoping to benefit from it. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-06-129	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We now have further speeches from our representatives. I give the floor to Adam Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-06-130	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to ask you a question. Do you know whose memorial year it is this year, who is the person to whom we pay tribute? If anyone, then Szilárd Németh, knows for sure, and there must be a number of others, because Miklós Zrínyi is the poet and general, our Hungarian national hero, and a Croatian-born statesman who has the commemorative year. Why am I bringing you here for this debate day? I am bringing you here because, in addition to fully agreeing with Mr István Horváth and with the content of this proposal for a resolution, and I will very much support it myself, I would like to say, in a prerogative, that the provisions of the proposal for a resolution should also be implemented in practice and not just on paper. I am thinking, in particular, that, yes, from now on on 29 September, we will be able to commemorate livestock farmers with events every year and, as included in the proposal for a decision, by means of publications. After all, these are the people for whom we cannot talk about the day off, we cannot talk about the weekend. For me, too, a number of my friends deal with animal husbandry, and now I do, too, and I know how many resignations this entails. Many have not even been able to visit their granddaughter for months. We talked about the past, and if you will allow me, I will touch briefly on the past, but while we are at it, I think it would be appropriate to supplement the text of the resolution proposal so that we not only remember the sacrificial work of those who choose the livestock profession in a dignified manner, but also the sacrifice of those who have ever worked in animal husbandry. And I'm saying this because many people, whether they run tribal farming or other livestock farms where they carry on the family business as a legacy of the work of their ancestors. So I think that this would also be a symbolic and gestureal commemoration for them from Members of Parliament, who, by the way, represent the Hungarian nation. It has been mentioned and I am very pleased that you are actively involved in the debate, Mr Deputy Minister, and I thank you for your comments that decades ago we saw in Somogy County that there were many more animals. A lot of animals in the villages were privy to their homes. What we see now is that most of the dots that have been transformed in the meantime have eliminated respect for the exception, are now concerned with crop production; a plant-growing company on a thousand hectares can solve this with six or eight people, and this is often included in the accountant, but few are concerned with livestock and also in the villages. There are those farm buildings, those dumps, those stables that can be proven to symbolize how much and what different kinds of animals people used to deal with in the villages, in their backyards. Today, a lot of people have stopped, at such a level that, not only there are no pigs and cattle in the villages, but there are hardly any poultry left. And as you said, Deputy Minister, the people have no intention of doing so. I think that we should create this intention, and I will also tell you why. From Marcali's neighborhood, not only the animals have disappeared in the last decades, but also slowly the people. So, mostly, the small villages are getting old, losing weight. What can you do with this situation? You have to try to give them a meaningful job, create jobs, so people can stay put. There is a maximum consensus between Gábor Berek, President of the Somogy County Agricultural Chamber, and I that agriculture, including gardening and livestock farming, could be the activity that could provide people in the countryside with a relatively larger number of living, clearly higher and higher than crop production. Imagine, fellow Members, that in the villages already in the villages. There's a waiting list for a good-flavoured smoked product, a smoked sausage or a pork shaker. That was unthinkable decades ago. There's a month's waiting list, like the Marcal hospital. These culinary-experience, truly organically packaged, put up products are appreciated, and now I think they are of great value. It is necessary to support people, including young people, who can or would like to deal with this in small quantities. What's the solution? I, too, try to do my job as a constructive Member of Parliament, and I would like to see as many people living in rural areas as possible have an intention to deal with livestock farming. How can the government help this? From central sources, by strengthening the processing industry, including the mini processing plants, it is necessary to support people to do so by rethinking pig, cattle, milk processing, cheese making, and products that I think you would most certainly like to taste and consume. Finally, I can wholeheartedly support this proposal, with this one small addition, that, while we are on the subject of tradition, we should also think of the people who have the fruits of their work, even if they are exhausted, but still many people can enjoy it and deal with livestock farming and livestock farming. Thank you for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-06-131	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP faction. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-132	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We have not even announced a speaker's speech, just towards the end of the debate, and I would like to comment very briefly, because I think that a very valuable debate has come about from this, we can say, a symbolic presentation. I do not know which address you prefer from the Deputy Minister, Mr Secretary of State. [[Sándor Farkas: Congressman!]] Congressman, excellent. So that you do not want to open an agricultural debate, and here you have a constructive proposal for Mr Balczó, I agree that these are more important issues than we are trying to interrupt the debate on such a symbolic bill. At the same time, I would like to translate one, and I would suggest that the government side initiate a debate on this issue. I can guarantee that the opposition factions will be present and that they will deal with this issue with a similar constructive attitude, which we have just heard. [[16.00]] I very much hope that you will be open to this, Congressman, and make a motion to the government, or make a motion, say, to the faction. Obviously, what is more important here is that such a debate can take place and a debate can begin or a debate can continue, because I believe that there would be a lot of constructive intentions on the part of the opposition. It seems that there are very, very serious system problems here that call for a solution. I would also like to add that I would also like to thank Mr Zoltán Magyar for his speech. The situation in the countryside, the fate of the villages and the future of the villages should also be a day of debate in itself, as we can see that in recent times no action has been taken that would have significantly slowed down the break-down of these areas, especially those of small villages in the peripheral regions. So these are huge challenges. With regard to the specific proposal, I can say that, of course, we also welcome the concrete bill, the idea of remembering and thus expressing our thanks to livestock farmers. I will do this myself as the leader of the LMP faction, and I can also say that we naturally support the proposal to appoint such a symbolic day. At the same time, I very, very much underline that this is an important symbolic step in itself, but really, beyond the symbolism, it is the real action that I think is expected by livestock workers and those who make a living or deal with it in any way. So here, indeed, as MEP Zoltán Magyar said, they deserve more than a symbolic day. Here in your speech during the debate, Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, you spoke about the aid for livestock farms. I just want to live with a suggestion here. I've been a guest in a small family farm lately. They do animal farming, they do preserve traditions, and it's really very, very exemplary what I saw there. So it really is a small family economy, and they produce very high-quality products that Mr Steinmetz spoke about: healthy, natural products representing a very, very, very important sector. I've been told in detail by the maintainers of this family economy how difficult they are, and even though there are so-so applications, I've been told why they've fallen out of all the possibilities. For some reason, they're in a situation where they can't apply for anything, they have such a special situation. As they told me, it is indeed a way of life, and this way of life requires a lot of resignations, and they themselves, moving from town to a small village, began to deal with it years ago. They have achieved very good professional results, and they are simply shot by the fact that, for some reason, there are exactly such tendering structures that they cannot kick the ball. I will contact Mr Secretary of State specifically on this matter, and it may just be a bit of a change to the system, so that small very, very positive family farms can work, but I think that there is something to be done in this respect too. And yes, on behalf of Congresswoman Vadai, I recall that she brought up a reduction in the VAT on basic foods. Indeed, it was said here in the debate that this would be a hundred billion-dollar item. I think we could put the items in the budget for a long time, with which this very important step could be taken. Indeed, this is no longer directly related to this issue, but I think we all see the social and economic crisis that has already developed and is emerging. I think that we are all here to represent the interests of the Hungarian nation, to work for the interests of the Hungarian people, and such a tax reduction in itself would be a huge help to Hungarian people. That's why we started a campaign on this, a lot of signatures have come together in many cities. I can say that people are very strongly in favour of this initiative, and I can tell you that everyone on the afacsokkentest.hu page can support this petition online in a minute. But I am very confident that this message will also reach the government, and we are able to give substance to this proposal, which we submitted to the Parliament in September, to negotiate, without having to collect hundreds of thousands of signatures. Nevertheless, we are doing this work, but we are confident that the portfolio will be constructive on this issue and that we will be able to conduct a substantive discussion on this proposal that we tabled in September. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-06-133	Thank you. I now give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-134	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Secretary of State inspired me for one more thought. He said that achieving land size in a good sense is certainly important and useful. I also agree with the fact that Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is to be incorporated into the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The challenges of the 20th century are quite different from those of previous decades, so I am sure that the concept of optimal estate size has changed, and I am also sure that the world economy has opened up at a level that brings us completely different challenges and challenges to livestock farmers than before. But it would be good to agree, in this good estate, in a good sense, what it means for you and what it means for us, because this decade-old debate between us, I think, comes from this, that you do not dare to determine in front of the country-world what is the ideal size for you within a sector, which is acceptable, and which is the government's objective of property policy, so that as many people can achieve this. And that is not only a suspicion on my part why they do not dare to admit this number here, why they do not dare to write it down, why they do not dare to say it in a debate in Parliament, but now, I believe, there is a multitude of facts to support the fact that this is a deliberate slip, and we are not directly given concrete answers to these questions. For example, there should also be a justification for how 76 percent of rural development and agricultural subsidies in Hungary will be awarded to the best 10 percent. The largest size of the estate, the most capable, are supported to death in this country, and this is also due to the fact that we have not defined what a good size is. Or, for example, they should reply to the fact that in the rural strategy, the end date of which expired in 2020, the rural strategy was, in fact, the end point of the rural strategy, so to speak, the goals which they had set themselves, why they had not achieved, not only in cattle, sheep or pigs, but in virtually no livestock-related number. And if you're already in the countryside, why are you refusing to keep an animal in sufficient numbers? The subject has been raised, so let me look beyond the changes in the world as well as the question of what the government has done in order to make this a sufficiently profitable, sufficiently attractive profession. In Austria, at the end of the 1970s, at the beginning of the 1980s, there was the same gap between a rural quality of life and an urban quality of life as in our country today, supported by countless data. This was recognised by the Austrians through governments, created a programme for it, grouped it, channeled the European Union funds, which aimed at achieving them, tried to eliminate these differences, and we reached the point that, in recent decades, the average Austrian citizen living in a rural settlement in Austria has access to all public services of sufficient quality, speed and quality than any other citizen in the city. And then we got to the problem of agro-generation change, which we've been talking about for years again, but we're really on the verge of disaster. As we can see from the figures so far, the new EU budget cycle will not take appropriate steps to ensure that this agricultural generation change can take place to a significant extent, which, by the way, affects livestock farmers in an even greater proportion than even arable crops, so we could expect substantial steps in this, too. Or I don't want to open the cooperative model now, but I think the Secretary of State has opened up the debate a little bit more. But the fact that this cooperative model has become an enemy to you is absolutely amazing. So, compared to the fact that in 2010 we heard from Professor Ángyán's mouth what a new approach we would see here in the decisions of the Fidesz-KDNP, and we will finally see a proper cooperative law and resources in the European Union scene that we will lose our word, and there is serious progress to be made, since then the Professor has been successfully eliminated and even more seriously avenged, because he has not given his name to the agricultural policy that has been carried out in reality against these promises. Indeed, this was ten years ago, and we have not made any progress since then in terms of the cooperative system, but rather in terms of backwards. I see this country moving towards the South American model, where natural resources are grouped in the hands of a narrow elite, and they are terrified of the solution that has been in place for decades in countries that are luckier than us. I mean, I'm talking about the cooperative model, where the profit at the end of the year is not concentrated in the hands of a narrow group of owners, but the members involved in the cooperative and their entire annual work result in a virtually adequate share of the profits. So, if the problems of livestock farming and livestock farmers are already here, then it would be worth talking about, because these are the problems that have caused the share of arable crops and livestock production to be so upset in Hungary today, for example, and these are the problems that unfortunately make generational change so difficult in this sector. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[16.10]]
u2020-10-06-135	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] If not, I will conclude that no further comments have been made and the general debate is closed. I'll ask the author... [[István Horváth indicates that he wishes to speak.]] Yeah, I don't see him on the plane. [[István Horváth: I would like to ask for a word, but my machine is not working.]] Then I would like to ask the technicians to give the congressman the opportunity. [[For signal:]] I can see it now. Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr István Horváth in order of business. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-136	I would like to respond as rapporteur at the end of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with patience to the comments and allow me to thank my fellow Members, Zoltán Magyar, László Földi, Béla Dankó, Dr. László Varga, Ágnes Vadai, Attila Mesterházy, Zoltán Balczó, Ádám Steinmetz and my fellow Members Lóránt Keresztes for their constructive and supportive contributions supporting the creation of the day of livestock farmers. I think that there are cases that are practically superior to political differences, where appropriate. Respect for the countryside and respect for livestock farmers are like that. And thank you again for your support and I am counting on your support and your faction. If I may, I would like to respond fully to one or two of the things that have been said here in the debate, if I may. In addition to his support, my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar mentioned one or two things and repeatedly mentioned that we should give due respect, that the government should give due respect and support to the keepers, because he believes that they will not receive the necessary support. Honourable Congressman, I would like to say that, at the moment, Hungarian livestock farmers in the European Union receive the most and the highest level of support, primarily from national sources. In particular, if you would like to respond to this, only the pig sector will receive some HUF 17 billion both for breeding pig welfare support and animal welfare support for fattening. The latest figures are: In 2019 the dairy sector received an extraordinary milk premium of HUF 10 billion, in the absence of HUF 20 million. I have to say that neither the pig sector, the poultry sector nor the dairy sector has been as profitable as it has been in the past year. If you recall the Gyurcsány era, then farmers visited Budapest in practice and were basically underfunded and truly indestructible. In recent times, farmers typically go to banks and, where appropriate, to discussions on aid to MVA, because what the Deputy Minister said is that a budget of 50 billion has already been set up, it must also be added that this is a 50 per cent grant, and this means that the sector can add 50 billion. And they add it because they think the players in the sector are worth it. The question of why there are no more pigs, why there are no more poultry, why there are no more cows, why there is much more. I think, as a farming man in the country, and who knows the thinking of rural people, that people will deal with both livestock, crop production and gardening when it will be worth it. With the kind of estate policy that Professor Ángyán once announced, Fidesz did not exclude Professor Ángyán from his ranks, but Professor Ángyán excluded the Fidesz from his thoughts, so I would reverse that question because it is not viable at the moment. After all, if we look at the fact that not only the pig disappeared from the farmhouse, the country kitchen gardens disappeared, and we talked about poultry. Today, people buy both carrots, onions, potatoes, eggs, milk, mostly meat in retail chains or discountes because they think it is not worth dealing with. But our conscious desire to get people into this kind of livestock occupation must also be handled in a tricky way, because basically, the fact that someone is dealing with livestock is not necessarily a job, but a commitment. If I don't have openness and dedication to be around the animals, then I don't want to take care of the cattle. So this is very important, I think, is dedication. So, overall, I have to say that Hungarian agriculture, Hungarian livestock farming, has never received as much support as it has received in the last ten years, and this is a high priority within the European Union. How are the natural indicators coming along? There are constant opinions on pork. Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai, this was brought by 24.hu, but I would not accept the writing of 24.hu as a professional source, if I may. There, on the basis of basically half-truths, György Raskó and András Máhr, the President of MOSZ, are constantly making critical half-information and thus giving slippages; but if Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm said that there were shameful privatisations at the time of the change of regime, then György Raskó should be asked what she had specific information on what she might have been thinking. But now you're saying that they're referring to 24.hu as authentic information. I think that neither 24.hu nor Mr Raskó and András Máhr provided authentic, factual information, but provides readers with half-information and false slides, false statements and findings. By the way, the number of sows may not have increased, but the number of pigs has increased significantly, while in 2013 3.4 million pigs were slaughtered in Hungary, more than 4.5 million in this year and in 2018-19. So the number of pig cuts in Hungary increased by more than a million. This also showed the whitening of the sector. Congressman László Varga referred to the VAT reduction. Obviously, Fidesz is also in favour of VAT cuts that actually give rise to the whitening of the farm and the reduction in the population's burden, but the biggest winner of this was livestock production, since live pigs and sheep and cattle were first VATed at 5%, and both pigmeat and poultrymeat had VAT at 5%. So the VAT reduction was the most important in this sector, and obviously, if there is economic power, then there will be a political decision and courage to continue with these VAT reductions. The Austrian example was also referred to by my fellow Member Zoltán Magyar; we agree on many things and look at them from a different perspective. At Austrians, conscious customer behaviour was the main driver of the development of the domestic sector. So as long as it is unthinkable for an Austrian person not to buy Austrian meat or potatoes, he does not look at what it costs, but he looks at it for the first time to become Austrian, so, where appropriate, Austrian small farmers, who work at higher production costs, can sell their goods, so they really have the opportunity and are still ahead of us, so that with this kind of conscious customer behaviour consumers, even consumers in the city, can better support rural farmers. In this, I think we're 10 to 20 years behind. However, there has also been unprecedented market development in recent years. So if you go around Hungary, you will see the cattle outside the road in electricherder, but if you go into the center of the settlements, there are renovated markets everywhere, where local producers have the opportunity to sell their goods. All in all, I therefore think that there is more than just more, so it is clear that more support could be put into the sector, and this should also be worked on in the next period, but basically this proposal for a decision was not about the debate, so I thank you very much for your contribution, but it was also about giving a centuries-old tradition, an institutionalized form of national culture, by recognising the work of livestock farmers. In agreement with my fellow Member, Adam Steinmetz, we should not only think of the livestock farmers in the present, but also of our ancestors in the past, but it is precisely this day that allows us to commemorate events with dignity, and, where appropriate, we can do this very difficult, yet very beautiful job and profession on the legacy of our predecessors, which gives work to many of us and more than 50,000 families. [[16.20]] And if Parliament gives us the proper respect, then I think that all of us have become a little bit more and we have given more respect to the countryside and more respect to the livestock farmers. Thank you very much for your supporting contributions. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-06-137	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, Coming up next in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon 44/2006 on Hungarian participation. General debate on the proposal to repeal the OGY Decision until closure. The government referral is H/13107. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Szilárd Németh, the author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Protection of the country is a national matter, building on the capabilities of the Hungarian Defence Service, our military federal system, NATO and the patriotic commitment of the Hungarian people. Article 45 (1) of the Fundamental Law defines the role of our defence as follows: the armed forces of Hungary are the Hungarian Defence Forces. The fundamental task of the Hungarian Defence Office is the military defence of Hungary's independence, territorial integrity and borders, the performance of joint defence and peacekeeping tasks arising from an international treaty, and the conduct of humanitarian activities in accordance with the rules of international law. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Parliament, Peacekeeping, as defined by the Fundamental Law, came into the international political dictionary after the UN was established in 1945. Over the past 75 years, more than a million people have served under the UN flag in more than 70 peacekeeping operations. Currently, more than 100,000 soldiers, policemen and civilian employees from 125 countries are serving in 14 UN operations. The first UN mission, in which the Hungarian Defence Forces participated, was the mission of Namibia between 1989 and 90, with the Hungarian contingent commander. The first evacuation of armed forces took place in 1995 in the Sinai Peninsula, Cyprus and the successor states of the former Yugoslavia. Since then, our participation in UN-led missions has been ongoing. It should be pointed out that between 1999 and 2000, Major General József Bali was in command of the Pakistani mission. Brigadier General László Török, the heroic dead of the Hungarian Defence Corps, lost his life as Deputy Commander of the Mission in Georgia in the line of duty in 2001. We are currently contributing to the peacekeeping activities of the United Nations in three operations, with a total of 14 soldiers. Overall, it can therefore be concluded that the focus of the operation of the Hungarian Defence Forces is not currently the United Nations operations. The new types of security challenges have shifted our international engagement in recent years towards NATO and EU-led missions, where Hungarian military forces are far more powerful. Dear fellow Members, Here I would like to report to the Parliament that today nearly 800 soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces carry out peace-building and peace-building tasks in 12 missions, on 3 continents, on 11 countries and on 25 locations in different operations, all in maintaining the UN, NATO, the European Union and an international coalition that is also organised. Dear Parliament, Returning to our UN role, we had to withdraw the Hungarian quota from Cyprus after 25 years was a significant reduction on one side. However, our country has remained clearly committed to supporting the UN peacekeeping activities, and our strategic goal is to maintain our current weight, which justifies increasing Lebanon's engagement. Hungarian engagement in the Cyprus mission began in August 1993, with four military observers. The team's contribution together with the Austrians lasted from 1995 to 2018. The Hungarian contingent completed its mission by 31 August 2018 in the island country, where over the years over 19 quota commanders were led by more than two thousand Hungarian soldiers and policemen. At present, ten people serve in various individual positions as military police officers or tribal officers. The Hungarian Defence Forces have been involved in operations in Western Sahara since 1995, whose main objectives were to monitor compliance with the armistice concluded in 1991, and to organise and secure a free and fair referendum. Later, the mission's military-type tasks were highlighted, and the emphasis was shifted to patrols and the control of military units. Initially 19 Hungarian soldiers served in the desert country, and 5 people currently serve in the mission as military observers. It is important to note that between 2002 and 2005, a Hungarian general was the commander, Major General György Kry. The UNIFIL mission was established in Lebanon in 1978 on the basis of a UN Security Council decision to supervise the withdrawal of Israeli troops from Lebanon, to restore international peace and security and to support the Lebanese Government in exercising power over the Southern Territories. 1344/2019 on the growth of Hungary's international military engagement. Under the Government Decision, preparations for the expansion of our UNIFIL role began in 2019. According to the concept, with Poland, four main staff officers began their service in November 2019 in the Irish Shooting Fight in the Italian-led Western Sectors. However, the deployment of 46 additional people originally planned from May 2020 could not be achieved at the planned time and with the number of people as a result of the UN decision. For savings reasons, the United Nations had to carry out numericalisation in its operations, and because of the restrictions on UNIFIL, it was not possible to increase the size of the Polish quota of 206. During discussions with the UN, the Mission Headquarters and Irish and Polish partners, it became clear that the Hungarian increase could only take place within the Polish quota, with the transfer of Polish posts. Thus, a Hungarian stock of nearly 20 people is likely to be integrated into a section of the Polish century. The battalion will thus remain unchanged and the UN refund will be guaranteed for the entire Hungarian stock. The Polish are responsible for providing small arms and the full logistical support, including care, housing and transportation, to our countrymen who are leaving the country. Deportation is planned to take place in January 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, In 2006, the National Assembly held 44/2006 on Hungarian participation in the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon. By its parliamentary decision of 10 October X, the UN peacekeeping mission in Lebanon contributed to the participation of up to ten soldiers in the Hungarian Defence Corps. Today, on the basis of our new Fundamental Law, it is not Parliament's competence to authorise our participation in UN missions, but the government's. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this dogmatical change was amended by the amendment of the Constitution of 1949 of 2009 in the year XXX. It was introduced by law. Thus, the current rule of competence under our Fundamental Law is identical to the regulatory framework in force from 1 June 2009 and is almost literally the same. Accordingly, participation in peacekeeping operations under Article 47 (1) of the Fundamental Law of Hungary is authorised by the Government. [[16.30]] In view of the fact that the Government will take a decision on the engagement in the peacekeeping mission of the United Nations in Lebanon in order to increase the number of people, it has become necessary to repeal the parliamentary decision of 2006. I would like to ask my fellow Members to support the technical decision on this matter, the parliamentary resolution proposal before us. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause from the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-06-139	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Péter Agh, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-140	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon has been in Lebanon since 1978. It has been established to monitor the withdrawal of Israeli forces from South Lebanon and has continued to monitor compliance with the peace agreements. This is one of the United Nations' longest operational missions. Hungary has been involved in the implementation of the mission since 2006. According to a 2006 resolution, up to ten soldiers from the Hungarian Army can serve there. This has so far been achieved mainly in the role of Hungarian military cartographers, who have contributed geoinformation support to the operation of the mission. For the safety of the Hungarian people, the government declares that the solution of problems and conflicts must be resolved locally so that they do not reach our country. Our country, in line with its commitments, is taking part in international crisis management tasks in this spirit. Along these lines, the Government aimed at increasing participation in the Lebanese mission. We have heard about these plans in connection with Poland's engagement in the mission. Further strengthening the Lebanese quota could be an important step in our UN Member State responsibility, but it would also help to improve our bilateral relations with countries in the regions concerned. It is also important to note that, in addition to the power of Lebanon, all support is therefore of particular importance in the reception of those fleeing from conflict zones in the Middle East and in the area of their supply and in the preservation of stability. In order to be able to do the steps of enlargement correctly, the parliamentary decision of 2006 already mentioned must be repealed. I ask my fellow Members, like the Fidesz faction, to vote in favour of the resolution proposal before us, thus expressing our appreciation for the participation of our soldiers in UN missions. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-06-141	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Varga, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. We have reviewed the proposal ourselves and, as has been said before me, this is indeed about repealing a 2006 parliamentary decision. The 44/2006 parliamentary resolution has contributed to the participation of up to ten soldiers in the peacekeeping mission of the United Nations in Lebanon in the Hungarian Defence Corps until the end of the mandate of the mission. Obviously, there has been a change, since, as has been said, the 2009 XXX. Law also amended the Constitution so that the decisions on military engagement, these relevant provisions, were amended so that the government's powers were removed from the competence of the Parliament. So, in this sense, the proposal itself is understandable, but what we see is that, ultimately, this type of initiative has not been initiated for the last 11 years, and that decision has provided the legal basis for this mission. There is also a question of exactly what will be in the government decision, what will be in it, and if such a decision is actually made, then the content of the engagement will change. In part, the Secretary of State referred to directions in his expo, which will be expected in the coming years, but we must nevertheless address the future of the mission and, if we are here, we should obviously all thank the Hungarian soldiers who are involved in this mission for their sacrifice. I think their activities still mean a lot to me. Thus, although the Secretary of State has referred to a few things in the expozee, the specific content of the Government resolution is obviously not known. However, the MSZP is a committed supporter of the UN's proposals for international peacekeeping, so I would like to say that, of course, in this type of peacekeeping mission, our faction is generally supportive. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-10-06-143	Thank you. I now give the floor to Agnes Vadai, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-144	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad when there's a defense-related bill or a resolution proposal in front of this House, because at least here you can talk a little bit about the military case. Not very much in defence and police committee meetings and written questions, in letters to the minister and in other parliamentary speeches, because in general we get the answer that the opposition has nothing to do with this, and we are not part of the nation, although Mr. State Secretary always repeats or says in each of his speeches that defence, the defence of the country, is a national matter. There is no debate between us, only in recent times we have seen that the participation of the Hungarian Defence Forces in these important issues and international missions is an important issue, as in the case of technical procurements, as in other matters concerning defence, for some reason the opposition members of the Defence and Police Committee, but I assume that the members of the Party of the Government are not given sufficient, adequate information. It was worth it to come in and be here for the annulment of the parliamentary decree, because now we know that there are 800 soldiers on foreign missions at the moment, which is 200 less than our time. You know, Mr. Secretary, you always say that when I destroyed the army when soldiers served abroad in our time, there was a thousand levels of ambition. This recent peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, i.e. the extension of the duties of Hungarian soldiers within UNIFIL, was already known earlier, since when Minister Péter Szijjártó met with his colleague at the time of the Polish Foreign Minister in the spring of 2019, as I recall, he was told that he would indeed join a Polish contingent of 250 people in order to carry out a task. As my fellow Members have said before me, in UNIFIL, the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Lebanon, they did indeed carry out cartographical tasks, but we assume, and then, obviously, the Secretary of State will report on this, i.e. I only hope that he will report that the extension of the quota has defined this number here in 46 people... they will indeed perform other types of tasks. We do not dispute that, and I think that it is a completely natural thing, in this House earlier there was a consensus that, in relation to the various humanitarian and other types of quotas or missions linked to international organisations, the government decides on its own and does not need the support of Parliament legally or publicly in this regard. However, it is precisely because the protection of the country is a national matter, and we believe that the nation includes us, who are sitting on the other side, and the voters behind us, so we think it is worth talking about these issues, if not always in plenary, because apparently and unfortunately, the military's affairs move very few people in Parliament, but there is a designated committee called the Defence and Police Committee, there it is worth talking about these issues. For example, it is worth talking about what Congressman Varga has also said about what specific tasks are intended for the Hungarian soldiers serving in this mission. This is an important issue, my fellow Members, because I would like to remind you that, when it is not within an international organisation, but when the mission of the Hungarian Defence Forces in Iraq was first decided by this Parliament during your administration a few years ago, it was first supported by representatives of the Democratic Coalition, because we think it is important to have consistency in international missions in Parliament. [[16.40]] For the second time, when the quota was increased and the task changed, we could no longer support this proposal, nor because they did not tell us what tasks the soldiers were going to perform. I'm living with the suspicion that while you're absolutely right from a public point of view... I'll wait for you to finish your phone call, maybe you'll listen to what opposition representatives have to say, I think it's important. [[István Szilárd Németh intervenes.]] You're not a woman, so you can't have shared attention, and you haven't been in this profession that long, as many of us here haven't been in this profession that long. I think it's worth paying attention to others, because we can say something that may not be the same as your political view, but it might be worth taking into account. This is that the support of the Hungarian Defence Agency must indeed be a national matter. But in every case the secrecy, not the transfer of information, creates a situation where there is a mistrust, and I would like to point out that it is not against the institution, because against the Hungarian defence as such, I think that there is no mistrust, but that there is a lack of confidence in the political situation that you have developed around the Hungarian defence. In this case, too, I would like to propose, while I would like to emphasise once again that, yes, it is the government's task to make this government decision or some form of legal instrument, that it would be worth informing the parliamentary representatives in the Defence and Police Committee who are sitting there, who otherwise have national security control, what specific tasks they intend to carry out for these soldiers, and where, by what means precisely, in what change and in what specific tasks they will perform. I think this is important because it has been an unbroken practice for international missions in the past, not to say that in years, decades, whether someone was oppositional or pro-government, and I would like to say again, this is well demonstrated by the first decision on the Iraq mission that at that time the government parties' proposal and the government's presentation were supported by other opposition groups than the Democratic Coalition. I would like to say to you that, obviously, there is a third point of the Parliamentary Decision of 44/2006, which is important because it is about this, and it is always important that the Parliament plays a role in this, that, in addition to the Parliament's National Defence and Police Committee, the Committee on Foreign Affairs should be informed. I think these are very important issues, and that is because, in general, long-term solutions are created in the cases of the Hungarian Defence Office, and it is always important to have a consensus on the part of the parliamentary parties. In recent years, and especially after 2018, these cases have basically been broken. On defence issues, we opposition representatives asked a written question on every occasion, and there was even a time when we sent a letter to the Minister to ask for his help in sharing information about the procurements of the Hungarian Defence Forces, we have never received a single reply. We always came back to write what we wanted. When we told them what we wanted, they wrote back, "But let's write that we want to." When we wrote that we wanted to, they came back and said yes, but when we wanted to. Then we told them when we wanted to, and then it started all over again, what we wanted. I don't think this is a good way, to be honest. And I know that Minister will be auditioning for the Defence and Police Committee in a few weeks, that is what Lajos Kósa, Chairman of the Committee, reported, but I live with the suspicion that he will be doing the same cliché as he has done so far, and if we are going to ask him what role the soldiers of the Hungarian Army will play in UNIFIL, then we will get the same answer as in relation to the mission to Iraq, in Hungarian, a great nothing. I don't think this is the right way. We can argue with each other, we can think differently about the Hungarian Defense. We can think that territorial protection is the most important thing; we can think that cyber security is the most important thing. You can say a thousand times that I have destroyed the army; I can say a hundred times and a hundred thousand times that this is not so. But that doesn't change the fact that the military case, the defense of the country, is a national matter. Let's look at the political side of this thing, because, frankly, I think it's a no-where path, that you keep saying that we're not part of the nation, that we're traitors, and we're saying that this is not the case, and that the voters behind us are part of the country as much as you are. We don't dispute that. In the matter of the army, we believe that consensus is needed. And while we accept the government's position that this issue obviously needs to be resolved from a public-law point of view, we cannot accept it, and I cannot accept that in these matters, they think that you can do what you want. No, no! We need to come to the Defence and Police Committee, inform the competent committees of the Parliament, the representatives, including the MPs, because in many cases, I have to say they have less information than the opposition representatives, because we have been forced to build alternative sources of information and contacts in order to find out what is going on in the House of the Hungarian Defence Office. This is not good, this is not a good direction, especially in the case of international missions. So I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State, obviously with Mr Lajos Kósa, Mr President, that when, for example, the Minister comes to be heard, if it is suitable for him if not, then at another time, even in a closed session, that if he does not wish to tell us, he should tell us in detail when this government act is planned to be drawn up, whichever is the case during the transitional period, because Mr. State Secretary said that this quota would be prepared in January 2021 with 46 persons... It may be wrong, but it was said that it would go on in May 2020, but because of the reduction in the number, it would not be possible, and that the necessary steps will take place from January 2021, and that the soldiers will carry out, in particular terms. We mean it, and I mean it, that the army is a national matter, that the army is a matter for all of us, and that the army must protect every Hungarian at home and abroad. I would like to take this opportunity at the same time to thank the soldiers of the Hungarian Army serving in Hungary and abroad for doing this work, for, despite the difficult circumstances, they are acting as they swear, because most of them, unlike many in this country, and especially in this government, are truly acting as they should, and if necessary, defend this country at the cost of their lives. As Mr. Secretary of State has said, there have been soldiers in these international missions who have sacrificed their lives for the freedom, solidarity, a very different world that we have all dreamed of in recent years, not only in Hungary, but also in countries where these missions have been carried on either under the auspices of the United Nations, NATO or the European Union. I would also like to say that I agree with Mr Secretary of State, seeing that NATO and the European Union are becoming increasingly important in terms of missions, as this is an ally bond, the United Nations must not be forgotten, and that there must also be a search for opportunities, obviously in terms of the possibilities of the Hungarian Defence Office, so that as many of our soldiers as possible can participate in these missions. Not only because this is what comes from our membership, but also because we know precisely that international missionary experience is extremely important for the development of the Hungarian Defence Forces and for military advancement. So once again, I would like to thank the Hungarian Defence Staff for the sacrifice they are doing for their country. And I would like to ask you to hand him over to Minister, because we see him relatively less frequently, and again to Minister, I would like to ask you to be so good as to inform the Defence and Police Committee in detail about the various purchases made by the Hungarian Defence Office, in particular by the defence portfolio. Rather than referring to newspaper articles, the best way is to give me, for example, or any of the Members who ask us to look into the treaties. I do not want to look at airplanes, I want to look at specific contracts that have been concluded at the purchase of these instruments, and I would like to see not only the contracts for the purchase of assets, but also the related training, infrastructure and other contracts. [[16.50]] I think you know that this is not your money, this is the money of Hungarian taxpayers, and Hungarian taxpayers have the right to know what they are spending their money on, Hungarian taxpayers have the right to know what our soldiers are doing in these foreign missions, and through us they can give them this information. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-06-145	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Varga-Damm Andrea.
u2020-10-06-146	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, H/13107. Parliamentary resolution No 44/2006 on Hungarian participation in UNIFIL in the peacekeeping mission in Lebanon will be repealed by the Parliament. Parliamentary resolution of 10 October 2005. This proposal also states that the decision will enter into force on the day following its publication. It states in its reasoning that under Article 47 (1) of the Fundamental Law, the government has the power to decide on Hungarian participation in the UN peacekeeping mission. It also argued that in 2009, when amending the 1949 Constitution, the Parliament decided that the government had competence to participate in peacekeeping in international organisations. After this introduction, I would like to respectfully say to the Members of Parliament and to the representatives of the Government that I will not vote in favour of this resolution. I'll tell you why not. I do not understand why the Parliamentary resolution proposal does not include what the next life of the 2006 Parliamentary resolution proposal and the proposal voted on was. By 31 August 2007, the 2006 Parliamentary Decision determined that the soldiers of the Hungarian Defence Forces could participate in this mission. Then it's 53/2007. By decision of 13 June 2006 the Parliament amended the 2006 parliamentary resolution by not voting a deadline, but decided that soldiers would attend until the end of the mandate of the UN peacekeeping mission. What does that mean? In the event that, after authorisation, a Gremium, a forum loses its authorisation for the future, before it has granted or decided such authorisations, that authorisation shall expire indefinitely. And after the 2007 parliamentary resolution concerns the end of the mandate of the UN peacekeeping mission, we need to see how the UN has decided on the fate of this peacekeeping mission in Lebanon. On 29 August 2020, the UN extended the mandate of the peacekeeping mission in Lebanon for another year at the World Organisation Security Council meeting. He explained that the maximum number of missions would be reduced by 2 thousand, with a maximum of 13,000 instead of 15,000. Moreover, this decision was also due to the fact that only 10 500 blue helmets performed this service, i.e. the reduced number is abundantly more than those involved. But let's see what else has happened with regard to the United Nations peace mission in Lebanon in Hungary! On 30 March 2019, Minister for Defence Tibor Benkő gave a speech in New York at the UN Defence Ministers meeting, where the future fate of peacekeeping missions was discussed. At that time Minister Tibor Benkő told the other Member States at the UN Defence Ministers' meeting: In January 2019 the government decided to increase Hungary's number of peacekeeping missions from 1,000 to 1,200. So he himself, the Minister of Defence, says in March 2019 that we want to increase participation in peacekeeping missions. In fact, he says in 2019 that they wish to join the Polish century, which will participate in this mission, and as part of the Polish century Hungarian soldiers wish to participate. Then, on 26 January 2020, the Hungarian Minister of Defence reports that the preparations for the peacekeeping mission in Lebanon have ended in Szolnok and says that they are ready to leave for this mission. But before that, on 12 April 2019 during the celebration of the 70th anniversary of NATO, Minister for Foreign Affairs Péter Szijjártó says that as part of the UNIFIL mission, we will send 60 peacekeepers to Lebanon. We haven't known what's going on with this since. One thing we know is that the defense wallet is bringing in a parliamentary resolution proposal that is absolutely unnecessary. I have just given you the legal reasoning for this, but let me also mention that after knowing since 2009, even if Fidesz was in opposition at the time, that, by amending the previous constitution, participation in peace missions in peacekeeping and international organisations became a governmental competence, it came to the conclusion, after eleven years, that it would repeal this parliamentary resolution. Not to mention that the National Assembly may take a parliamentary decision on any matter which falls within the competence of the Government, because Parliament is the supreme legislative forum, and in any matter, Parliament may take up issues that it believes are important, whether for domestic or international reasons, that Parliament decides on a matter which is the government's jurisdiction. In recent months, we have put forward in proposals why the government is bringing it here to the Parliament when it brings matters under government control, especially in the case of various government measures in relation to the coronal virus epidemic. For this reason, I do not understand why Parliament should repeal this resolution after the mandate is unlimited with the 2007 amendment, i.e. the limit on when the UN decides that this mission will cease. Until the UN decides to do so, this decision is valid and in this respect the government has no position to decide on participation. If it's that the government wants to pull the soldiers out of there, or there's no money to send them out, because their training, as we see, has happened, or there's another reason, why don't they tell us? This would have been elegant, by the way, if the government had prepared a draft resolution, presented it to the Members of Parliament, and said that, having for some reason changed the terms or other intentions of this mission, we would like to take this government decision. And he's putting forward a question of prepayment of trust and he's expecting opposition parliamentary representatives to be kind enough for Parliament to allow me to take this government decision and to take this measure, to repeal it, because for some reason the view has changed. I would like to join my fellow Member, Agnes Vadai, in his presentation on the effectiveness and perception of the participation of soldiers in international engagement. Today, the State Department is not the real diplomat in Hungary, our government is not the real diplomat, but our soldiers and our scientists. These two social groups are the ones who maintain Hungary's authority in international space, and even very often increase it. What the government is doing in its international activity is detrimental to our country's judgment, these people compensate for it. The unique soldier who really stands up to his daily work among extraordinary dangers all over the world, and his fellow soldiers and fellow leaders from other countries there can tell us what the Hungarian people are like, because the Hungarian soldier is what. I believe that these diplomats, even if they work in extremely dangerous conditions, do their job, and some do not return alive, even so, we have to keep them there only in order to improve the ability of the Hungarian Defence Agency, because as a small country, we have no choice but to gain the authority of our country in international space with our performance. [[17.00]] So I'm asking the defense government and the government to tell me what your real intention is. From a legal point of view, this decision is unnecessary, and I only hope that the opposition representatives will finally find out why this proposal came to the House. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-06-147	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have further speeches from Members. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-148	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I feel a little bit like the debate on the previous agenda when the topic was the day of livestock farmers, but everyone took the opportunity, if in any way animal husbandry, to grow, to be an economy, to be an agricultural economy. I am the same way now, because it is clear from the proposal that this is a legal, dogmatic issue, the validation of this. Mr. Secretary of State has listed the history of our military missions, which I was personally pleased to have because I received information that I did not have. In this context, Agnes Vadai and I have a general debate on defence, and then, of course, the Secretary of State will respond. To be honest, in the number war that 800 of our soldiers are on mission, and we had a thousand, I can certainly see that in this matter, we have to see the numbers as an absolute figure that allows us to decide that more is certainly better for us. I must add that in the fundamental legal change that took the decision of the foreign, if any UN participation of Hungarian soldiers out of the competence of the Parliament, both the Fidesz and the MSZP are obviously involved in this, as it concerns the 2009 amendment, which Fidesz found practically good to carry forward in the Fundamental Law. When I was a Member between 98 and 2002, there was still a principle that Hungarian soldiers should play a role abroad, then we will send them out if there is a parliamentary consensus, and a parliamentary majority will determine it. Therefore, one more remark: that is why I do not understand the last sentence of Péter Ágh that, with this resolution, we are also expressing our appreciation for our soldiers, our mission soldiers, because if the recognition that they are sent out by a government decision instead of a parliamentary decision, I would see it the other way around, if we were to decide now that what the government could do here, we would elevate it to a higher rank. The supreme forum of popular representation, the Parliament, should be the one to approve it. So here is a lot of what has been said in this regard, and I think it is partly not a close subject, and partly I do not agree with it. The parliamentary decision on a military mission is higher than that of a government decision, while it should be noted that both the previous government and parliament in the amended constitution of 49 considered this to be a good thing in the Fundamental Law. Thank you. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian applauds.]] [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2020-10-06-149	Good afternoon. Congresswoman Agnes Vadai, DK, two minutes!
u2020-10-06-150	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that there may be no debate between the opposition-government party, because it has been an unbroken practice to have a government decision on these missions in the case of international organisations. It was an old good practice that, of course, the committee responsible, in particular the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Defence and Police, had been informed of the content of these missions, if that was the case, even at a closed meeting, of the tasks they were carrying out. Here's the debate, the problem may be due to the fact that the parliamentary decision determines a number. The number of soldiers who can participate in the UNIFIL mission in Lebanon is determined by ten members of the Hungarian Defence Force. Mr. Secretary, on the other hand, what we've read in the press speaks of a different number. Since this practice is undisturbed, and I believe that there is no discussion between us and the governing party and the government, that, of course, with regard to international organisations, it is the government's opportunity to make a decision, but it is expected, and perhaps this is also reflected at the request of Mr Balczó, that in these matters, either in advance or at the time of the government's decision, or immediately afterwards, the Committee on Defence and Police will receive information. Because the main subject of the debate is that so far it has been clear that these 10 people are carrying out virtually cartographic activities, but now Mr. Secretary of State spoke of 46 people who... [[Németh Szilárd István: No.]] Then Mr Secretary of State will correct us if we have heard wrong, but he has spoken of a larger number, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs has spoken of 50 people earlier, and no substantive information has come out, and we have not spoken of these issues in the Defence and Police Committee recently. So I very much hope that, at least at the ministerial hearing, these issues will be clarified. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-06-151	Honourable Members, I'll ask him if there's anyone else who'd like to tell me. [[There's no candidate.]] I'm gonna say no. The general debate is closed as no one has made any further comments. I'll ask Szilárd Németh, State Secretary, if you'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] You have the floor, please.
u2020-10-06-152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Members, Thank you very much for the comments, especially the fact that Péter Ágh expressed his full support for the Fidesz and KDNP fractions for the full support of this Parliamentary resolution, which is of a technical nature before us, once again. I kept a little longer exposure to inform you of the circumstances that some of you have asked us to do here, but in fact, I probably shouldn't have done it, but I would have told you in half a minute what I asked you at the end that there was a new constitution, that the new constitution was based on a legislative amendment made in 2009 in the previous year, and that is what we would like to do now, because there is a movement here with regard to UNIFIL. I even told you that although the position of the United Nations Peacekeeper is in need, because the UN is economical, and therefore, from financial perspectives, it cuts us off, and the ideas that were a year and a half ago, or a year ago, are no longer in place, these ideas are being replaced, but we know that there is a room for manoeuvre, on which the Hungarian intention is to continue to be in the role of the UN peacekeeper, exactly where we have been shot internationally. I am very pleased with the sentences who have already said that Congresswoman Varga-Damm has left, but perhaps she has said that Hungarian soldiers have been recognized in every mission, if the Hungarian soldier appears, then the phama around her is really about the reliability of these people who are sent from Hungary, they want to do their job, they want to work, they want to do the work that the mission refers to their purpose. I can't deal with what Andrea Varga-Damm said. How did you put it? There's no need for this, and you're not gonna vote for it anyway. So we don't have a fight. Even if it's ten minutes old, I don't know how big it's all wrapped up in words, but that's the end of it, he's gone fast, so I can't argue with him. I thank Mr Zoltán Balczó, who said that he is in a different position, but he will support this Parliamentary resolution proposal. Besides, it's hard for me to go, Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai, to make a personal and incriminating comment, and a lot of distortion, if you like, lies in what you're saying. Let's not say you can't ask questions on the Homeland Security and Police Committee. [[17.10]] You have to go to the committee meeting, and everything can be discussed there. And that the minister won't answer the questions? There have been more than 250 questions in this cycle, and I am talking about a written question, which, by the way, has not been without personalism and accusations. There's an amazing way of asking questions. We have to get past this. The Ministry's job is to answer these questions. We've answered every question on time, exactly, precisely, and you can look into it. Then, if you asked the Minister for an audience, you asked for a meeting, that's what happened. So everything that a representative needs to know about the Hungarian Defence Forces, the Hungarian Defence Forces, the development of the Hungarian Defence Forces, the 2026 Zrínyi, and all the other things that we would like to make up for what we inherited in 2010 at the Hungarian Defence Forces will be answered transparently. Social publicity is a given. When was the last time in the last 30 years that the Hungarian Army bought the brand-new, great and proud weapons, let's introduce them to the greatest possible public? Well, it wasn't like that. It's now. Now you can leave, every weapon that arrives will be delivered to the military with a public demonstration, by the way. Here, all Members are involved in the legislative process in front of the public of Parliament, and they must only be able to participate in it. And, by the way, let me add that hearing such criticism of the left about missions is very difficult. It has not been a year since Márta Demeter, your ally, made public confidential and personal information about a mission in Cyprus that not only jeopardized the security of the soldier and his family returning from the mission, but also the reputation and reputation of the Hungarian Defence Forces. Well, how do you think someone took down the data of a missionary soldier, just like that, with all sorts of political motives, because someone wants to be president of some party, and they should get the Hungarian Prime Minister involved in a little scandal, and then he just throws it out in public like that? What do they think of us? And this congressman is exactly, I think, a vice president of this committee, if I remember correctly, but he's definitely a member of the Defense and Police Committee. Not now, of course, thank God. So once again, I would like to ask that the work that lies with us on this issue be done. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] I mean, let Parliament do it. And by the way, according to the new legal order, the Hungarian Government will take the decision that will determine the number and tasks of the soldiers serving here, the Hungarian soldiers serving in Lebanon. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]]
u2020-10-06-153	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal to amend the laws concerning certain elements of the financial intermediary system for harmonisation purposes will follow until closure. The government referral is T/13105. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Gábor Gion, Secretary of State, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-06-154	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Members, The current bill focuses on reducing the risks of the financial sector and promoting sustainable financing of economic activity by implementing EU directives. A fine-tuning of regulation in the capital markets, insurance and banking areas is expected to strengthen the institutions concerned. It follows that a large part of the bill is composed of more complex technical paragraphs, which have only an indirect impact on the quality of our financial management, but the amendments also include proposals that obviously directly affect people's administration of everyday finances and insurance. Three of the amendments to the Banking Act would be highlighted: supervision on a consolidated basis, revision of provisions on capital add-on requirements for credit institutions by supervision and regulation on remuneration policy. The whole point of the rules on supervision on a consolidated basis is that the risks of a group of banks containing one or more banks as well as other entities not individually supervised, where appropriate, should be considered as one unit. The reason for this is that any of the banking group's businesses may have an impact on the group as a whole, including, where appropriate, the bank in the group. The current legislation does not adequately address the situation where the group manager is not a credit institution, but is not individually supervised and therefore cannot be subject to a supervisory measure, such as a holding company. The amendment therefore requires a separate approval procedure where the manager of the banking group, including the member responsible for supervision on a consolidated basis, is a holding company. Capital adequacy rules for credit institutions are based on three pillars: minimum regulatory capital requirements for the risks assumed by credit institutions, internal valuation of these minimum regulatory capital requirements by banks and its supervisory review, and finally the disclosure of the fulfilment of capital requirements by banks. Based on the internal assessment of the minimum regulatory capital requirements by banks and its supervisory review, supervision may impose additional capital requirements on risks that are not managed by the regulation alone. However, the capital add-on has a significant impact on the functioning of the bank and therefore the amended provisions clearly define the scope of supervision. The purpose of the bank's remuneration policy is to avoid excessive risk-taking and therefore, for all workers whose professional activities have a material impact on the credit institution's risk-taking, performance improvements should be paid deferred and at least 50% of the credit institution's legal form should be paid in shares, equity shares or assets that reflect the value of the bank's shares. Dear Parliament, The amendments concerning investment firms concern the further sound and prudent functioning and supervision of those undertakings. Regulatory changes are justified by the creation of harmonisation with applicable Union law. This means that the single prudential framework applied so far to banks and investment firms will be separated in the future, and investment firms will need to be better adapted to the specificities of those undertakings rather than to the banking rules that have been applied so far. The purpose of the requirements remains to ensure that investment firms manage their business properly, operate safely, manage risks effectively, act professionally and reliably for the benefit of their clients. However, in the new framework, a more differentiated, more flexible approach can be applied to the size of these businesses and to their activities. At the same time, the banking rules continue to apply to the largest investment firms providing systemicly significant banking-like services, as these risks of the impact of large institutions, often called investment banks, on financial stability are comparable to those of real banks. Dear Parliament, The main aim of the regulation on the resolution of credit institutions and investment firms is to ensure that institutions in difficulty and critical functions provided by the institution can continue to operate in such a way as to avoid financial support from the State in any form. On this basis, it is important that institutions have sufficient loss and recapitalisation capacity, i.e. assets that can be described or converted into capital where appropriate. The proposed amendment to the law on the further development of a system of institutions to strengthen the security of certain actors in the financial intermediary system, which regulates the resolution framework, is also crucial in strengthening this loss capacity and strengthening the associated powers of the resolution authority. [[17.20]] In this respect, it was also essential that the amendments make the regulation much more detailed than before in order to define the requirements for institutions and organisations in a more transparent and uniform manner. Dear House, Digitalisation is today's top priority. Financial institutions still operate in a fundamentally digitalised manner because of efficiency and strict regulation. However, it is also a fact that significant progress is still needed in terms of contact with customers and the provision of services to customers. This period also highlights the need for digitalisation and the further development of digital operation due to the coronal virus epidemic. To this end, a number of legislative proposals will be made on the issue of digitalisation concerning a number of laws under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. These proposals concern amendments to the law on credit to the consumer on the provision of payment services and to the law on credit institutions and financial undertakings. Legislative amendments aim to promote bank digitalisation by enabling customers to make an independent digital channel available and by facilitating the interpretation of the liability rules for the use of a cash substitute payment instrument. As the technology evolves, conditions have been established to ensure that a declaration on a non-paper basis is capable of providing the same or wider guarantees as the paper declaration. However, in the case of a mortgage credit contract and a financial leasing contract for real estate, it is still justified to comply with more stringent consumer protection aspects and should therefore continue to be concluded only with the physical presence of the parties. There are proposals for strengthening bank digitalisation within the regulatory function of other wallets, such as the replacement of paper documents with a certified electronic copy, or the safe feasibility of the customer due diligence obligation with the electronic use of the Central Identification Agent, which is already being developed in the relevant regulatory circle. The implementation of the proposals will allow the future to exploit digital storage opportunities that can partially replace paper storage, as well as to develop digital solutions to help identify customers, which can significantly improve the quality of banking services and at the same time make the use of financial services more customer-friendly. Honourable Members, Last but not least, I would like to mention the amendments to the proposal in the area of insurance. In addition to amendments to harmonise legislation, the provisions on insurance are essentially intended to further strengthen the position of customers. With the further development of the preferred e-Indemnity Insurance system, the system becomes even more user-friendly by not having to enter the data already included in the damage register separately, but being automatically uploaded. The proposal also provides for the publication of claims information on the website of claims insurance undertakings and helps clients to understand how claims can be submitted, what time limits should be imposed on victims and how compensation can be received. Dear Parliament, To sum up, the objective of the proposed legislation, taking into account the need to adapt to the changing environment, is to further ensure the sound functioning of the financial sector. I therefore ask you to support and accept the bill. Thank you for your kind attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-06-155	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. There will be speeches by the lead speaker. Congressman Sándor Kovács Fidesz's lead speaker is the first. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-156	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, The T/13105 in front of us. Proposal for a Law amending for the purposes of harmonisation the laws concerning certain elements of the financial intermediary system, as can be read in its title, primarily for legal harmonisation purposes. In the expoze, we received a detailed picture of the substance and purpose of the proposal. In my speech as Chief Speaker, I would like to highlight the most important parts of the bill and to summarise the central elements of EU legislative harmonisation. Dear House, The amendments contained in the bill are part of a broader review of EU financial regulation, focusing on reducing the risks of the financial sector and promoting sustainable financing of economic activity. The proposal includes, inter alia, rules on the prudential supervision of investment firms, which include rules on investment firms that have been applied so far, which are less restrictive than those applied to credit institutions, and which are more appropriate to risks. It is also necessary to transpose into national law the EU Directive establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms and the amendments to the directives aimed at ensuring a sufficient level of loss and recapitalisation of credit institutions and investment firms. The aim of the change in the area of insurance is to facilitate cooperation between supervisors in cross-border insurance activities and to review the professional liability insurance amount of insurance intermediaries. Dear Parliament, As part of the bill, the law on credit to consumers has been amended, which is necessary because, as technology evolves, conditions have been created to ensure that a declaration on a non-exclusive paper basis can provide the same or wider guarantee as a paper declaration. In the context of the bill, in addition to legal harmonisation obligations, the provisions contained in the bill build on the supervisory experience of the Hungarian National Bank and take into account consumer protection aspects: for example, a customer-friendly insurance claims process. The proposals also support and strengthen bank digitalisation, so that the use of individual services can be made in a new way in the event of public demand. The customer experience will improve, and the time spent in banking will decrease, the number of personal contacts will decrease. The obligations imposed by the Law on the Prevention and Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing will be made more effective and easier for customers through the use of free IT capacities, reducing the administrative burden on the customer side in relation to the customer identification obligation to prevent, detect money laundering. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, In the light of what has been said, I believe that the bill before us contains provisions that must be supported, and I therefore call on my fellow Members to support the bill, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your kind attention.
u2020-10-06-157	Thank you very much. Congressman Dániel Z. Carpathian, Prime Minister Jobbik, please.
u2020-10-06-158	Mr President, Dear House, Since we have a fundamentally balanced professional relationship with Mr Secretary of State and many of my fellow Members who are familiar with the subject, I ask that no one take it personally when I say that reading the various explanations does not necessarily make it easier for the one-off opposition representative to address it. I can see that in the package before us, which is well above 100 pages, there are countless, undoubtedly sympathetic points. In these areas, I must make a few comments to you, taking advantage of the framework of the general debate, and not go beyond that. I fully support, for example, the intention to give the family allowance in the event of adoption not only to those who are legally entitled to it, but also to those who are actually raising education. This is an absolutely eligible direction, but I would like to note here that we are talking about a form of family support, the value of which has been continuously inflected for about a decade, evaporates, and I fully understand the motivations of the government that it does not touch the family allowance, but I can also suggest you a modern way of supporting families with children in need. Jobbik proposes the introduction of a family card scheme, which, like the SZÉP card, could be spent on basic foods, child-rearing products and on child-rearing, caring and caring expenses, not on recreational and various forms of gambling, where appropriate. [[17 .30]] Therefore, it can be said that the family allowance could be increased, or even replaced, to make it a follow-up to inflation. In a similar state-of-the-art solution, study the food camp system that has been operating overseas for decades, and you will see that even in the home country of the free market and here there are a lot of citations to understand the same method effectively, but we are also open to other solutions. For all I care, it may also be possible to write down the increased allowance in full from the third child's work income. But what I see is that, while they are cosmeticating the system here and doing it in the right direction, I think we are dealing with fundamental systemic problems that leave masses on the side of the road, because the positive elements of the family support system are very often hit by our more difficult-lived compatriots either not being able to achieve them or using very narrowly controlled foam. And while we are at the edge of the road, we have arrived at the Hungarian National Bank versus consumer protection issue. I looked at it with sufficient distance when this government interrupted the issue of consumer protection into the activities of the Hungarian National Bank. I do not mean to say that the bandit was entrusted with the role of the pandurist, because I do not want to put it so harshly, but I do say that, in addition to many of the activities of the Hungarian National Bank which fit its main profile, it is not fit to exercise a wide range of consumer protection. Look where we're at, fellow Members. Since 2010, although this government has wanted it, it has not been able to fully reduce even the organized and crowded display of goods. We've talked about this in this House many times. A consensus has been reached on the subject. I just read a Hungarian Nation not far from here, where the pro-government press complains that the masses of elderly people are being beaten up again at the display of goods. Good morning. Since 2010, you have been sitting here, and we would like to help you settle this issue, and you will begin to praise me here, reading out the justification, the consumer protection that has been sucked into the Hungarian National Bank. Well, that's what this consumer protection is worth in its present form. And we could talk about the amazing situation of foreign exchange credentials. Here today, when I was preparing for a speech, I received a live broadcast about another eviction event, to tell you here in Parliament that, of course, it is possible to apply cosmetics and EU legislation in the right direction, and to give aspirin to the dying, but it does not change the fact that people are constantly being thrown out of their homes without accommodation. At this very moment, the eviction you've been relayed from today, do you know why you missed it? Because one of the family members was forced to return from abroad, and the mandatory two-week quarantine saved the situation in quotes, since it had to go somewhere for quarantine, and eventually it was better to give a 30-day extension. But let's not save the Hungarian families, but let's say a wide-ranging eviction moratorium! I have a problem with not this package, but with what you do not submit to Parliament. I say, yes, if in 2022 there is a government of national unity or a government that takes this issue more seriously, then financial supervision should be excluded from the scope of the National Bank of Hungary. An independent, transparent, decent institution must lay the foundations for which it can function much more efficiently than under the National Bank of Hungary, I repeat, something has fallen under it, which does not perform its task specifically. It is quite amazing that, although foreign currency loans were raised during Balliberal governments, and this was an amazing historical failure, no one will absolve this government of its brutal years since 2010 from kneeling down to banks and betraying people. What you've done to these people is rare across Europe. There is no government in Europe that is so serene, self-rejecting, which does not require any additional demands on the banking system, and the Hungarian citizens have everything to do with it. We can see that this has not only been the case since their pact with the EBRD, which was made in February 2015 and which is now available on the government's website in English, but is already the case when the banking sector special tax allows the transaction fee to be passed on, or when the epidemiological register is being filled, by the fact that the banks only received a separate tax on paper, but in reality they can write it off from their tax, act in a regular way towards this system, and the citizens are not protected. In the midst of such a climate, talking about financial consumer protection, I would say, at least cynical. I'm just encouraging you to take this package, if there are no mines in it, or at least the positive parts of it. But I also claim that this will not bring about a systemic solution. This is about the 17th proposal on the resolution of banks to facilitate the situation of financial institutions. I understand the motivations behind this, and I would only like to see legislation lying before us, at least with this weight, on settling the situation of citizens, while we do not see it. In the same way, I welcome the fact that, in the event of customer compensation, a reasonablely long term or deadline is sought in order to ensure that anyone unable to enforce his claim for compensation for personal or other reasons, or, let us say, that the cost of such compensation would have been much higher than the amount that could be obtained, should be given an additional time limit, if appropriate, to do so, an additional opportunity. But once again, I would welcome the fact that much fewer cases, much fewer clients would be in a position to be compensated at all, because we know the individual's ability to assert their interests against this system of sophisticated and often collaborating with the government. It is very rare for citizens to be able to exercise full rights and full damage. To give an example of this day and of the subject matter concerned, if an enforcement procedure takes place prior to an eviction event, or if an auction takes place, the circumstances of which are disputed by the debtor, and which he practically does, even if he indicates to the authorities or the court that he has a problem with the procedure, he cannot win either a suspension or a deferral in the vast majority of cases. So if you really want to help these people, then you should reach it, and together we will make a legislative amendment that will allow the person to receive exactly as much time as is necessary to investigate the circumstances of the case when making a legitimate objection. How many times has someone's home been auctioned off, evicted, turned up a new owner, and then the court said that you were actually right, my friend, but the buyer got it in good faith, so you can't take it back from him. It is quite amazing that in the digital age, the XXI. In the century, crowds are losing their homes in these circumstances, when we should be able to see every penny perfectly in a transparent system. Indeed, we have often been exposed to a situation where enforcers already claim reimbursable claims, two enforcement gangs claim the same thing. It's a pretty amazing situation, because you're letting it happen. So we would also like to see a package in this regard. But again, eviction moratorium would be the most urgent. In the era of digitalisation, which was rightly mentioned by the Secretary of State, we should indeed prepare for a truly new challenge. However, it seems to me that there are many times in such a tracking, scanning mode both the Hungarian government and the appropriate authorities and supervisors. For this reason, it was Dr. Brenner Koloman in Jobbik who first said that the introduction of an online ombudsman's institution might be a solution that would make this follow-up a little more proactive. Therefore, protection shields should be developed to help effectively reduce the vulnerability of customers, the vulnerability of our elderly countrymen, the general lack of information in which the client is in administration. There are a number of areas to be processed that we have been talking about for a very long time between Parliament's walls, where this government simply does not take the necessary measures. In such cases, when the justification is read, it is always stated that EU legislative harmonisation, implementation of international proposals must be implemented, because this was a time frame or so, but where does the protection of citizens, the comprehensive Hungarian consumer protection package come from? Because the two could actually work together by strengthening each other, and in the absence of each other, these two can show much less effectively, any good proposals being transposed from international space. [[17.40]] Once again, I would like to point out that we are not against you. We will support the positive amendments before us. Obviously, the mines are still being researched in this very extensive proposal, since we have been used since 2010 to the fact that these mines have been hiding in almost all of the proposals, or are going into it at the last minute, and we have been watching them with árgus eyes. I do not want good intentions to be taken away, but once again, I feel this good intentions to be such a transposition of legislation, and it is not a proactive, proactive, proactive, national commitment action plan to protect Hungary's citizens and customers. And I miss the latter very, very much. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-06-159	Thank you very much. Mr András Aradszki, lead speaker for the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-160	Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the bill before us, 15 laws on financial and insurance matters are being amended, which, as has been said here before, contain amendments of a legal harmonisation nature, as explained in detail in the proposal, and also propose amendments resulting from the practice and control and consumer protection experience of the Hungarian National Bank in order to ensure that processes that are as customer-friendly and as traceable as possible in the financial world take place, and that traceability also entails control. If we look at the bill, it focuses on the amendment of the Banking Act, the Investment Business and Stock Exchange Services Act, the Consumer Credit Act and the Financial Intermediation System Security Act. The timing of the proposed legislation, I think, is in line with, and I am sure that it is also in line with, the need now to transpose the European Union directives that have been adopted earlier on how to prepare not only the Hungarian financial system, but also the financial system in the European Union for a situation where economic challenges are strengthened, when the security and financial capacity of the financial system can become limited, and in such situations, what behaviours and challenges can be addressed by the renewed financial system at EU level, including the Hungarian financial world. I think that the timing is particularly good in this regard, because the coronal virus epidemic highlights these challenges, these difficulties, and even more so requires that the Hungarian financial system can respond adequately to the challenges faced by the EU economy through European financial systems, and, if necessary, the government can take those steps, as well as the organisations supervising the financial system, including the Hungarian National Bank, in order to strengthen these institutions, ensuring the capital needed to finance the needs of the economy. It is therefore necessary to add that the amendments are of a highly regulatory nature, to strengthen the prudence and to reinforce the rethinking of the draft legislation contained in the proposal by the institutions that created security. These safety-enhancing parts include regulation aimed at resolution, i.e. certain elements of the financial system, possible economic disruption, loss of capital and its capacity, loss-taking and performance, and strengthening it, this package of laws before us. It is very important, because in this respect there must have been shortcomings at EU level, but also at Hungarian level, the improvement of which is never a done thing, because life can always and always create new problems, newer and newer financial institution difficulties. It is therefore very important to be able to deal with these problems in time and depth through legislation. I also think it is important that digitalisation is put at the forefront of the insurance system and the banking world at all, and that this legislation creates a system of instruments and makes the proposed bill easier, more acceptable and more customer-friendly to use such instruments. This will also help to a large extent to make it more transparent and, in addition to what is important in the financial system, in the financial services system, to enhance efficiency, speed, up-to-dateness and the degree of control. In addition, I must say that this type of presentation requires very thorough professional work. The scope itself is such that it requires careful preparation on the part of the financial portfolio. For our part, on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, we can say that in view of the values of this, given that we have a client-friendly proposal for the security and strengthening of the financial system, and at this very time when it is necessary to strengthen the financial system and to create its financing capacity, we can therefore strongly support this proposal, and I ask my fellow Members to do the same when it comes to deciding on the fate of the bill in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-06-161	Thank you very much. Congressman László Varga, MSZP Prime Speaker, please.
u2020-10-06-162	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I could even continue where my pro-government colleague Aradsk, my fellow Member, has stopped, as I can say that all measures and any legislative proposals that serve the prudent functioning of credit institutions and investment firms should be supported, which makes the picture clearer, which includes proposals for harmonisation concerning certain elements of the financial intermediary system, which really serve the proper functioning of the Hungarian financial system. We must support all of this, but it has also been said before me that this is a more than one hundred-page amendment, from which it is visible for the time being, and the experts who have reviewed this material say that it does not contain a type of larger mine that makes the whole of the comprehensive amendment questionable in this sense. But there are some question marks in it, and I'm sorry, I have to say, after all these years of experience, that we wait for the Legislative Committee to end, because we have not once experienced that there are changes of technical nature, or, if any, concerning spelling only here at the last stage, but very often changes of substance and substance. So, in addition to wondering what amendments, what amendments are being made to the proposal, I am also curious about how this proposal is going to turn out in the last phase. Because again, of course, we are in favour of strengthening financial consumer protection rules and proposals for the prudent functioning of credit institutions and investment firms, as well as harmonisation of legislation, and, while we are here, we can say that, in terms of the past, the government should have gone to the wall in the last ten years in the same way. I am thinking of the issue of foreign exchange credentials, the question of the exchange rate, and, where appropriate, of people who have been crippled and destroyed by certain financial corporations, let us only think of the Quaestor-harmed. In this context, it is clear that an eviction moratorium should be in place until certain issues are resolved. But there are quite a number of areas where the amendment concerns life, and there has also been a question of family allowance, which I think is obviously a technical change of this kind, which can be supported in the interests of children, but it should also be said that, at the time of your governance, family allowances have not yet increased, the amount of family allowances has been frozen, and I think that this is a form of support that reaches the poorest. So this is definitely something that needs to be changed, especially in this social and economic crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic; I think we can say that this is what it is, even if it avoids the attention of the government. Otherwise, it has not been mentioned, but, for example, even the law on compulsory car liability insurance is being amended, and the proposals in this regard are also eligible. The proposal also amends the Hungarian National Bank Act; otherwise, I note in a small way that it lays down the guarantee rule from the source of the directive, according to which the Hungarian National Bank is required to provide the necessary expertise and operational capacity for the performance of its tasks. [[17.50]] Obviously, this is an obligation of a directive in this sense. However, in view of the fact that, let's say, the MNB thought that after the outbreak of the corona virus, it would still be possible to achieve a 3 percent economic growth, without actually seeing the situation in which the Hungarian economy and Hungary came, it was necessary to note this somewhat picically. Obviously, such a proposal, I repeat, contains a complex range of provisions, technical amendments, changes in content, but it was largely motivated by compliance with EU directives. We still have a few question marks in us, and we look forward to the legislative process that ends with the Legislative Committee meeting, to what direction it will take, because we are often surprised. So forgive me, Mr State Secretary, and forgive me, fellow Members, that I can obviously report on our final voting behaviour after the TAB meeting. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-10-06-163	Thank you very much. Representative László Varju is the leader of the Democratic Coalition. Here.
u2020-10-06-164	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to approach, on several sides, the rather robust bill before us, which, of course, can easily be classified as a law of harmonisation which, in this respect, if, on the basis of recent changes in the financial regulation of the European Union, is followed up by the financial sector, we can approach accordingly. First, I would like to start by saying that, as you have adopted, there is a law that says that all of these, I might say, are significant amendments, otherwise, before any legislative amendment, you should have submitted a preliminary impact assessment to Parliament. You fail to do so properly, so we are in a position to try to judge this partly on the basis of our own experience and partly on the basis of the opinion of professionals. The government is failing to implement this law, and it is not helping to legislate in this sense. However, we should be given a summary of all the significant effects of the proposed legislation, and I think that an exposé will in no way replace it. The social, economic and budgetary implications should be discussed in any case, but I can't find this in them, even the general justification. The administrative burden you have already decided to face is not shown in such a summary, such an impact assessment. I think I could overlook what is in the law that you have adopted, which is perhaps clear at the beginning of the debate, that the need to draft legislation, I think, is justified precisely in the context of European harmonisation, and it is important for you and for all of us that this endeavour should be done in this sense. Even if, by the way, the various elements of the financial intermediary system need to be prepared not only to change, but also to face it and to adapt accordingly to the new rules, trusting that it will otherwise increase their stability, and accordingly, citizens who use these services will be safer in this sense, they will be able to keep their money more secure. The clarifications that are involved in the insurance of motor vehicles are, of course, a very, very large number of citizens, which is why I think it is very important that we talk about this more. The part about the Hungarian National Bank, I think, needs to be looked at from several sides, I have referred to this here before. I think that what my fellow Member said could be examined in relation to a specific example of the extent to which these institutions have the burden of loss and what needs to be done. Here, with thorough work, as my fellow Member described this situation, if we had done a thorough job, we would have had such an impact assessment, and perhaps we wouldn't have run, or Hungary wouldn't have rushed to mention the specific case of such damage to the bankruptcy of the Széchenyi Bank, with the Fidesz government starting it and, by the way, trying to close it all. With regard to the bill, it must be stressed that this regulation, which is now before us in this way, would be good for the government to confirm that it will prevent and prevent the events that you have faced in particular with regard to Széchenyi Bank. It is certainly necessary to talk about this, since it is well known that the Hungarian National Bank was able to supervise... despite the irregularities, the state bought itself there. So everything they want to prevent by law, then they also knew about the participants in the financial institution system, and then they did it anyway. And then, when the complaint and investigation of this began, they tried and tried to prevent it ever since. After all, István Töröcskei was arrested only in the summer of the year, after many years, with the decision that 19 suspects were detained on suspicion of property damage and other crimes of more than six billion forints in criminal networks. But I can also mention other elements and cases. How Széchenyi Bank's case fits with this bill: I mentioned earlier that the government bought itself into this bank, but in the same way the Magyar Nemzeti Bank can be accused of insider trading and the suspicion of bankruptcy that the Hungarian National Bank contributed to this, that it did not otherwise help depositors who were abandoned by supervisory authority, and in this sense, we can safely say that they were destroyed. We're talking about 1,600 depositors left behind by this bank. The transfer of liability for damages to the commissioners appointed by him is a big issue for me. Here, the winding-up commissioner appointed by the Magyar Nemzeti Bank did not comply with his obligation to report in the official capacity. That's what the tests show. And you, I would say, have patiently watched. I trust that if this law is passed here, it will be avoided or not done. But I could say that the police are in this affected circle. Although let's just say that the police investigation was, in fact, the prosecution's investigation or the prosecution's obstruction, which I think has affected it. In this case, I also filed a complaint on this particular case. This has not yet been fully completed, and as I have said, the 1600 depositors who have lost practically everything in this way can receive compensation in this respect in some way. But your Quaestor scandal, which is yours, remember and reassure us that if this law was passed, it would not happen, since in March 2015, when it exploded, then the Ministry had to bring the money in cash in suitcases from there, because what they put in there was, let's say, a risky situation. [[18.00]] In addition, it was virtually rescued from them, from the victims, which, I think, could raise further questions in a row, but for you, this is such an embarrassing question that they are trying to cover it up as much as possible. But like I said, they weren't just private individuals, they were government and State Department. Finally, I have to mention in this round that at this Buda-Cash scandal, where the broker scandal reached the former Fidesz municipality of Újpest, the institution or municipality led by Zsolt Wintermantel was also in connection with these financial services providers, where it could happen that the Hungarian National Bank has watched all of this in a way that it no longer has a license, and has now been shown to have caused HUF 133 million damage to the Újpest municipality on the basis of an expert report only by paying them an undue commission. By the way, when I spoke about it here in Parliament two weeks ago, and the committee of inquiry was set up at the Újpest municipality, the XLS Kft., who did this, changed its name and seat with immediate effect, said that it might be possible to escape, because you were not really influenced, you knew what was going on and the supervisory body didn't take action. To sum up, I think that in the next few days we should be reassured that the amendments that the European Union has initiated and expected, and which you want to take into account in this bill, will result in the government, the police, the Hungarian National Bank, the Public Prosecutor's Office not being in such a situation... although my fellow Member here has indicated that this is a desired purpose or desire, but frankly, this is clearly not my consequence. Take greater steps and, let us say, make more reliable statements, or it would be better to prove in action that they do not abandon the victims and otherwise compensate them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-10-06-165	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-166	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, T/13105. The bill is extremely long, it amends 16 laws through 194 paragraphs, 151 pages, most of which is really about adapting EU directives, guidelines and decisions. When talking about the financial intermediary system as a representative at least, you always think that the rule of this is primarily for those who bring money into the financial intermediary system, who allow banks, different investment firms and their associated institutions to function effectively, generate profits and pay taxes. However, when these rules have an inexorable amount of legal structure we are looking at, the basic aspect is the safe operation, but not for people, but for the maintenance of the system. Why am I putting people and the system against each other? I claim it because I have a nine-year-old, quite thorough experience in this respect, which is the experience of the consequences of foreign exchange lending, and that is that whatever rich legal material surrounds the financial intermediary system, indeed, whether you like it or not, the institutions are playing them quite easily. As long as all the data is in their possession, as long as a citizen, whether like it or not, does not receive all the supporting documents relating to his transactions, and even has been able to get to the point where, with the full detention of the judicial system, the participants of the financial intermediary system have been able to ensure that, in each case, judges do not dare to ask for the basic evidence, or even if they are asked, and the financial institution says that they have fully violated the provisions of the law, that they no longer have the paper documents, even though we are still abundantly involved in the time until it can be destroyed, I have to say that it does not matter how many paragraphs, how many pages, how many rules there are, how many systems, how much the citizen still feels: that he is vulnerable in this system. The proposal amends not only the rules on the financial intermediary system, but also, for example, the law on early support for young people, which, by the way, is a welcome rule for me, but it is only such a small part of this proposal. If I look at the last 30 years, or rather now 33 years, since the two-tier banking system was established in 1987, then it can be said that the Hungarian governments were controlled by the current banking power, and unfortunately I cannot exonerate either side or the other side. Because if it were not, the system of foreign exchange lending, which is extremely shocking and incredibly existential, would not have been unlimited for so many years. And when the tragedy occurred, the system did not say that I would return these relations to their balance of value, that I would create the equivalence of the service compensation required by the law that civil law has imposed since Roman law, but that they had taken themselves, and that the government, along with the banking system, sacrificed these many people to save their own skin. A lot of my criminal experience shows that, despite such a rich set of rules, the financial intermediary system has a level of arrogant, self-righteous, often brazen rejection by the financial intermediary, that they should prove anything that's amazing. And then we didn't talk about cross-border services. The transactions are conducted by electronic means. The moment a transaction crosses the borders of our country, any person who places his assets in such an investment, in this kind of credit institution, is so exposed that it is amazing. I have to say that government and supervision do not even seek to draw people's attention to those risks and try to protect them from this type of investment and the impressive influence these organisations have on people can in some way avoid. It should be said that while overseas and in Western European countries there is a tradition enough to ensure that investments are truly protected, people are indeed, once they put their small money in to make a little interest or make some profit, the whole system is about protecting citizens, and the opposite is happening in Hungary. And then I'll tell you the most important question that the government could have done in the last nine years to prove to the citizens, yes, to protect them from abuse. And you know what this is? Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Secretary of State, the institutional system for buying claims. They're talking about Prudence. Prudence is that their losses are recorded by financial institutions, risking the money of depositors, by selling the claim to private companies at 5-10 percent? ! And doesn't anyone in this government think nine years ago that they're obligated to offer the debtor the opportunity to buy it? So once he robs him of a foreign currency loan as an unrepayable product, then he robs him of the bank by selling the claim to a private company for pennies to the detriment and danger of its depositors, and the private company makes a lot of money by signing a contract once a debtor. [[18.10]] Don't tell me it's okay. Nobody! I'll tell you: for the next parliamentary election, one of the most important elements of my campaign, you know what? The regulation of banks and the compulsory offer to the debtor in the purchase of claims; in all areas, even when selling the liabilities of public utility services. It is not fair that the person I am dealing with says that this is enough for him in return for my debt, and then there is a third, who are mostly employees or managers of the organisations, so that the financial intermediary system and the claims of public utility providers are transferred to private assets. Don't tell me that it's okay that it's so democratic, that it's so rule of law, that there's prudence here! Hell, no, it's prudence. It's accounting. The thing is, the numbers in the books should be good, so we don't have to make reserves. That's where there's prudence! But there is no prudence to protect the depositor's real invested money. I must say, however, that this is also somewhat European. And then there's something else I want to talk to you about, and this is money laundering. The banking system is the biggest supporter of money laundering. We have an incredibly serious, strong set of rules, the law on money laundering, which I don't know how many times has been amended to make it even more thorough, and even more so, while billions of people wander through the Hungarian financial intermediary system sometimes find out from criminal cases that the dog doesn't look at it! Please, is the Hungarian banking system supposed to provide the background to money laundering? Dear Secretary of State, I expect, in the next period, that the government should place great emphasis on all its tasks in relation to money laundering being carried out by the financial intermediary system and that it should properly examine the sources and background of high value, serious transactions, because I think that this is particularly harmful to our country on the one hand and, on the other hand, for the safety and protection of citizens. And last of all, if the financial intermediary system is to be regulated a little by the government, the first important task is banking costs. Banking is extremely expensive in Hungary, on the one hand compared to the general income of citizens, so it is relatively expensive and also nominally expensive for many products. If we go to Austria, Germany, banking costs are much more favourable. In practice, banks today have a relatively low interest rate on costs. In fact, people have to pay to put their money in the bank. It is no coincidence, Commissioner Secretary of State, a few days ago, that I, too, was shocked by the result of the amount of cash that people have. How much money has been taken out of the banking system without being brought into the trade for purchase! That's an awful lot. Because citizens have to pay for their money in an institution. Of course you're saying I don't want to keep you there, I don't want to pay you that much, because I don't get any interest. So I think that if the government's goal is to secure the financial intermediary system and to ensure that the increased costs of the state are covered by citizens' money in the banks, then arrange for the financial intermediary system to have an interest in keeping their money there. And interest isn't about paying those rich companies to have my money, because almost every household has places to hide that no burglar can find. This seems to be being used in an increasing number of people. The proposal itself, for the time being, as my fellow Members have said before me, does not contain bombs, but this does not mean anything in this House, because rules that are hidden until the last moment that the opposition does not like so much, but I hope that this is not so, and its basic purpose was indeed to harmonise the law and to re-regulation of the conditions imposed. For my part, if that remains, I can support it, but the financial government has a role to play in the real, citizen-centred resolution of the financial intermediary system. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-06-167	Thank you very much. I'm waiting for nothing to happen. But it is my duty to ask if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. No further comments were received. I'll ask the Secretary of State if he'd like to reflect. [[For signal:]] Secretary Gábor Gion, please.
u2020-10-06-168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Thank you for your compliments, your support from the Fidesz-KDNP Members, the constructive proposals from the ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. As Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm mentioned, this is 151 pages thank you for the exact number, 151 pages, so it is quite a lot in itself, and I think that we will do the good work if we concentrate on that in this case. I have tried to put the comments into some system here, and at least try to respond to those that are related to the current legislation. I believe that the relevant portfolio of family support proposals is very happy to receive any kind of family support proposals. As regards financial consumer protection, this has always been under the supervision of the financial system. So this is also an international practice. All that's happened is that surveillance, which was a separate institution, has been placed under the National Bank, the Central Bank. It's not a unique case, by the way. It's sorted by your country. Some of it's inside the central bank. I think it doesn't matter where he is, you can argue about what kind of work he's doing. Obviously, this criticism must be directed by them. By the way, we're working with them, and I'm gonna signal the criticism to the right people. The fact that we're friends with banks is weird because we talk a lot about banks and international analysts, and I can testify that they don't think so. In fact, they don't think so at all. They think we're too strict. We can probably stand in the right place if that's what you think. I didn't really understand the eviction moratorium, because there's a credit moratorium. So there are no non-performing loans, because there is a general credit moratorium. There can be no eviction. If there's such a specific case, we'd be happy to look at it, but there's no such thing at the moment. What will happen, what changes will be made to the legislation, we will come back after the TAB, and we will tell you about it. The fact that individual bank failures, individual problems, individual things that are happening can be used as legislators to study, tighten up, draw conclusions, otherwise in the current draft legislation, it involves increasing the powers of the resolution authority, which is precisely for this purpose. If there are specific cases, for us as legislators, it has value if we can draw a general conclusion on the direction in which to improve the system, in which direction to improve it, but this is an ever-changing banking system, and where there is money, there is always abuse. The financial intermediary system is like this, which is why it keeps changing. The EU is also changing, precisely in order to prevent, minimise abuse, and, unfortunately, we will never be able to avoid it completely. [[18.20]] The extent to which a proposal on the security of the banking system or of the financial intermediary system and on the security of depositors or on the security of customers is, in fact, almost one and the same, since a stable banking system means that depositors' money is safe. If there are any problems with consumer protection, it should obviously be indicated by the Consumer Protection Authority. Cross-border transactions are indeed a challenge, not only for us, but also for other countries, and because there is a free flow of services in the European Union, it is very difficult to prohibit. However, we and the organisations involved in this work are always trying to draw attention to the fact that there are benefits, but there are risks. Obviously, this is an international feature of buying a claim, and this must be properly regulated, and I think that is regulated at the moment. I think that we will come up with proposals for EU harmonisation, that there will be further tightening up, that is a system that can always be safer and that can always be improved. Even when it comes to money laundering, as a last important area, another EU directive is, of course, being outlined here in view of further tightening up, which, of course, we will take over at the right time. Although, in fact, in the case of money laundering, if we look at the cases in Europe that we have seen, it is not only we that have, and indeed we do not have, the big money laundering scandals, it is the authorities themselves who have missed something and not so much the legislation. So these are money-laundering cases, which do not necessarily require legislative changes, but rather strengthen law enforcement agencies in order to reveal them. So that's what I meant. Yes, it is a long proposal, thank you, by the way, for the words of praise, for the support, and in the final debate we will return to any amendments. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-06-169	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you about the amendment proposals on Thursday at 4 p.m. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal to amend certain energy laws until closure. The government referral is T/13108. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter Kaderjak, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Secretary of State, please.
u2020-10-06-170	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In recent years, the Hungarian government has reduced the burden of Hungarian families by 25 percent on average, reducing the official prices of gas, district heating and electricity. As a result of the program, Hungarian families saved HUF 1700 billion in energy and utility bills until the end of 2019. Consumers saved most of the money on the electricity bill, and they pay HUF 751 billion less for the service. In the case of natural gas, nearly HUF 642 billion is the total savings of residential users, while by reducing the cost of district heating HUF 153 billion remained with Hungarian families. Hungarian domestic energy prices have also become much more favourable in European comparison than before. Consumers are now getting energy at affordable prices. According to the September 2020 latest data of the international energy price comparison study of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, domestic consumers can access gas and electricity at the lowest average price in Europe. According to the latest data from the MEKH, it can also be seen that the retail electricity backs 53, gas backs 77, and district heating backs were reduced by 62 percent as a result of the reduction of the overhead. The total backlog fell from HUF 73 billion to HUF 26 billion in seven years. In addition to the amount of debts, the number of off-line retail customers has decreased by 60 percent since 2013. The measures were attacked not only by the opposition but also by foreign-owned energy companies. Because of the legal solution applied by the government, the European Commission has also launched infringement proceedings against Hungary. On the one hand, it was critical that domestic legislation precludes the recognition of specific taxes on energy networks and costs related to financial transaction fees in system charges. On the other hand, the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office has been given an effective remedy in relation to the decisions on system charges. Honourable Members, According to the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 16 July 2020 on the infringement procedure initiated by the European Commission against Hungary, the relevant regulation at regulation level does not require that the costs related to the specific tax on energy networks and the financial transaction fee are necessarily taken into account when setting access charges to networks. By judgment of the European Court of Justice, the European Court of Justice confirmed that Hungary has not infringed EU law by excluding the recognition of the extra tax on energy networks and the costs associated with financial transaction fees when establishing energy system charges. Therefore, Hungary's public policy and the reduction of the rent do not conflict with Community law. Dear Parliament, Hungary has won the debate with the European Commission and defended the results of the reduction of the rent. Dear House, The purpose of this legislative amendment proposal is to ensure an appropriate mechanism. The European Court of Justice ruled that effective remedies should be available in relation to the decisions of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office setting system charges. Hungary, subject to the judgment of the European Court of Justice, is ready to make the necessary amendments to the legislation in order to ensure an appropriate redress mechanism. By adopting the legislative initiative of the Ministry of Industry, the Parliament can establish a legislative framework for the missing mechanism. To this end, the bill before you contains amendments to three laws: the 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. Act XL of 2008 on the supply of natural gas Act 21 of 2013 on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. amendment of law. Following legislative amendments to the provisions of the electricity and gas sectors, a three-tier legislative regulation is established for public energy prices and system charges. The first level of regulation is the same as that currently in force: this includes the regulations of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, the president of the MEKH, which contain the principles of price regulation and price setting, as well as the rules of price application for specific fees. The second level of regulation is the methodological guidance issued by the MEKH, which is also known by the sector regulation currently in force. [[18.30]] The methodological guide is an indicative document for market participants. Following the amendments, it will include a detailed description of the decision containing the fees and of the mathematical and other methods of calculation on which the reasons for the decision are based. The purpose of the current bill is to establish a third level of regulation. Under the current sectoral rules, the specific applicable rates of system usage and related other charges are included in the regulations of the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. In order to ensure an effective remedy for the licensees concerned under the Directives of the Third Energy Package, the bill provides that the specific applicable rates of charges are to be determined in the MEKH decisions instead of the Regulation. The decisions, the regulations of the president of the MEKH, also contain a justification describing the whole process of charging on the basis of the methodological guide. An appeal may be brought before the court against decisions under the rules of administrative procedure. With the amendments proposed, the domestic legislation on the establishment of system use and related other charges is fully in line with EU law and the judgment of the court. Dear House, The bill also provides for a number of derogations from the general rules on administrative procedures and rules of procedure permitted by the law. For example, in the course of the administrative procedure, the limitation of the range of stakeholders to directly affected industry operators or, in the case of administrative litigation, the exclusion of the imposition of suspensive effect and the judicial change of the MEKH decision. In addition to those amendments, the further amendment of the Electricity Act ensures that the legal institution of the so-called pre-production right is incorporated into the sectoral regulation in order to accelerate connections to the public electricity network. Dear Parliament, In the debate with the Commission, Hungary sought a solution that would bring Hungarian legislation into line with EU law with the political objective of keeping end-user energy prices at an affordable level. The debate against the European Commission has been won on the most important issue, and the court's decision of 16 July 2020 confirms our position: domestic energy prices must be determined not in Brussels, but in Hungary. Thus, we defended the results of the reduction of the rent, and the savings of more than HUF 1700 billion since 2013 contributed to the performance of the economy. The government remains committed to protecting the results of the reduction of the costs, which is also an important element of the climate and nature conservation action plan announced in January this year, as this will also help the population to use clean, smart and affordable energy in the future in Hungary. I therefore ask the Honourable Parliament to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-06-171	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mainnote speakers will be held. First, Congressman Gábor Riz, the lead speaker of Fidesz, gives his opinion. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-172	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, In view of the legislative, regulatory experience of the past period, the changes in the energy sector and the measures implemented, it has become necessary to amend the energy legislation and to create an appropriate regulatory environment for the third energy package. As a background to the bill, I think it is important to mention that, according to the judgment of the European Court of Justice on the European Commission's infringement procedure against Hungary, Hungary has not infringed EU law by excluding the recognition in system charges of the specific tax on energy networks and the costs associated with financial transaction fees. The European Court of Justice has confirmed that Hungary meets the regulatory requirements of the EU energy market and that the European Commission can decide, without having a say, on these issues with a particular impact on the reduction of costs by Member States. In addition, Hungary will ensure an appropriate redress mechanism in order to ensure that the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office has an effective remedy in relation to the decisions on system charges by means of the amendments under this legislation. According to the European Court of Justice, therefore, Hungary's public policy and the reduction of the rent do not conflict with EU law. Hungary has won its debate with the European Commission and has defended the results of the reduction in overhead costs. Dear Parliament, According to the content of the bill on the amendment of certain energy laws, the T/13108 text in front of you proposes to amend three energy laws. The 2007 LXXXVI on electricity. Act XL of 2008 on the supply of natural gas Act No.3 and the 2013 XXII on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office. The proposed amendment of the Act requires that a decision be taken on the basis of a specific decision on the third level of price regulation, to be determined by the Office, and provides for a general appeal against those decisions in administrative proceedings. The electricity and gas price regulation has so far been a two-tier guide, a regulation, but after the proposed amendment a three-level regulation, a guide and a decision-type regulation will be established. The purpose of this amendment is to establish a third level of this regulation. Under the current sectoral rules, the specific applicable rates of system use and related other charges are laid down in the Office's regulations. In order to ensure an effective remedy for the licensees concerned under the Third Energy Package Directives in respect of the specific applicable level of fees, it is necessary that they are decided by the Office instead of by regulations. Dear House, Gas is currently the most important factor in the supply of heat, so gas supply in the country is a critical issue. In recent years, the government has made the investments and concluded the necessary agreements that allow us to say today that Hungary's gas supply is secure in the long term. Connections with the neighbours have been built, Hungary has six gas pipeline connections from the seven neighbouring countries, and a fair, trust-based relationship has been established with Eastern and Western companies. Cooperation will continue to be maintained in the future, as it is in the interest of the country to bring gas to all these countries from as many sources as possible. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Given the energy policy that has been represented since 2010, it is important to mention that the Fidesz-KDNP governance has been subject to a huge reduction in the amount of rent that has been quantified: since 2013, nearly HUF 2000 billion remained in the pocket of the population, which reached almost HUF 1700 billion by the end of December 2019 and nearly HUF 1800 billion by the end of September 2020. The government remains committed to protecting the results of the reduction of the costs, which is also an important element of the climate and nature conservation action plan announced in January this year, as this will also help the public to use cheap energy. In light of what has been said, I would ask my fellow Members to support the bill, like the Fidesz fraction. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-10-06-173	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Zoltán Balczó, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group, is coming. Here. [[18.40]]
u2020-10-06-174	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary of State and Fidesz Prime Minister. If the Hungarian Government has won this case, as it is, against the European Commission, then why are we here? Why are we here? You did not start with the reason why this issue should be put on the agenda, why laws should be amended. You have listed the numerical results of the reduction of the overhead, which you consider to be objective. Let's add that in 2013 the Jobbik fraction also voted for the reduction of the rent, which I now consider as a basically political project, which, of course, had real results and benefits. The fact that today, when we keep getting statements on how much less we're paying, it's a little bit doubtful for me, it's kind of like when they come down from the captain's bridge to the engine room and say, "How much?" Answer: 30. What's 30? How much what? So we no longer know exactly what we're comparing these data to. However, you are referring to the fact that the European Commission has raised a lot of objections in this case, and some of these objections have been found by the European Court of Justice that it is not objectionable and that the Hungarian Government has not infringed EU law. However, the national regulatory authority has not granted an effective right of redress against regulations setting access charges to electricity and gas networks. That's what's in this amendment! So I admire Mr. Secretary of State, I know his work from a long time ago, between 98 and 2002, and I'm a little concerned that he's taken on this style of rucksack. So I think that it could have been said objectively that what the European Court of Justice has established, we were partly right, there are parts that have violated the law, we are now compensating for it, but we again had to make it look like the eternal struggle that Hungary has to fight against the European Union. By the way, there are a few other details that, indeed, had to be included in this bill because it did not comply with European Union law. So everything has a price. Obviously, it also had a price to pay, somewhere, to save the money from which the amount of this reduction in rent came out. Obviously, I do not want to go deeper into the fact that companies whose revenues have decreased, whether the necessary network developments have been made or not, have had some of them since then. I do not shed crocodile tears because I know very well what a huge profit these energy companies have made during the previous period, how often they have taken it out by counting it to their parent companies at cost, so I am not talking about it. But it was obvious to me, as early as 2015, when the dialogue in the infringement procedure began, that there really were parts that did not comply with EU law. We're members, we have to do it. The Jobbik will, of course, support us in complying with this, but somehow confused... If I don't hear that we won the lawsuit, we were right about everything, but we were attacked factually and in many ways, they were right about a lot of things, and we didn't comply with EU law, so we're correcting it now. We're so few here, not televised, I'm a little confused by this common tone that wants to bring this up here as a fight. Thank you. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition.]]
u2020-10-06-175	Thank you very much. Congressman András Aradski, KDNP, please.
u2020-10-06-176	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The speakers before me also inspire me in many ways to shed some light on the situation, while stressing in particular that Hungary is the European Commission against the reduction of rent, I am not saying that it has defeated it, but has convinced him that the legal and economic foundations of the reduction were basically in order. I must add, I've had the pleasure of following this process at some level. The first step in such an infringement procedure is a letter listing the manner in which the European Commission's organisation intends to act, which is its Energy Directorate, DG ENER. This was not about two points, Honourable House. If my memories didn't cheat, it was six or eight, but at least five points between five and eight. It included, among other things, the need to abolish the price regulation of universal service providers itself, putting everything on a market basis. It was also mentioned in this matter that all costs, as required or requested by the service providers, should, in fact, be followed by Hungary in price regulation, so that all reasonable or less justified burdens should have been borne by the Hungarian population, the Hungarian energy users. This story began further away. This started there, and we can be precise and precise, that between 2002 and 2010, the then governing forces, left-wing forces, allowed the price of gas to triple and the price of electricity to five times. In this period, the price of electricity and gas available in Hungary was among the highest, but also in euro. From 2010 onwards, the Hungarian government frozen these prices, and then in 2013 they reduced them by 25 percent in several steps with Jobbik's support. So far, that wouldn't have been a problem. On the other hand, the European Commission, taking into account the service providers concerned, may I say that its comments, but it is also possible to say that its complaints, have started to examine this whole issue, and, as I mentioned earlier, has not challenged the Hungarian Government and the Hungarian Parliament's proceedings on two issues, and has not thought on two issues that Hungarian consumers were too good for themselves, as opposed to the service providers, but more. I really believed and believe in negotiations. These negotiations were initiated by the Hungarian Government on the basis of a government mandate, and we have reached the point that, step by step, the Commission has gone to court only on two issues, which have said one of two, that it goes against European case law, and that is that we have not given the relevant service providers or system operators an adequate remedy against the decision of the regulatory authority. That's the short story, that's the history. After that, I am brave to say that the hard work of the Hungarian government has managed to protect the values of the reduction of the rent, to remove the obstacles that the European Commission has repeatedly tried in other legislative initiatives, for example, to prevent the purchase of electricity, gas and district heating for consumers using universal service at regulated prices. So if you look at it that way, I have to say, we've been largely successful. If I had to translate this most of it as a percentage, that's 98 percent. This is a 98 per cent success, one can say, in this case, which is a very important result, that we have been able to convince the Commission's competent man that Hungary is right in the procedures for reducing the overhead costs, that it has implemented a fair, reasonable and non-safety reduction in a way that does not endanger the economic situation, which is an advantage to everyone, to the extent determined by the Secretary of State. This value has been protected in recent years since 2015. [[18.50]] On this basis, all I can say about the bill itself is that, of course, the judgment of the Court of Justice must be satisfied in the case initiated by the European Commission. In this respect, the submission is appropriate. And it is also appropriate in the sense that energy is a very sensitive system, and we all know that we are in this room. Therefore, in the judicial, regulatory review procedure, security of supply cannot be compromised, the functioning of the market cannot be compromised, nor can it be endangered that users of services, system users, should not perform their tasks under a hectically changing environment. I believe that, in this respect, the ITM has found a proportionate, proportionate and legally well-suited solution, because I think they were the authors and prepared by the Ministry of Justice. From this point of view, I believe and am sure that the bill regulates this difficult issue in a sufficient and appropriate manner, and I believe that it is also in agreement with the Commission. Therefore, there will be no possibility of further attacks from this point of view and no such attacks will be expected. Overall, I can say that the Christian Democratic People's Party is in favour of this proposal, in addition to its forwarding and not even its forwarding, because the proposal will continue to ensure in the future that the price of gas in Hungary is the second cheapest among the European Union countries. And the cheapest among EU countries in Belgrade and the second cheapest price for electricity for universal service providers, and we want to keep this position as long as possible. Moreover, the market environment and the work carried out in the meantime, investment in infrastructure, are capable of bringing about the possibility of further price depression to those sources of supply that are or will be available to us in the near future. I can say that, knowing the verdict, thank you for the Government's work, thank you for the tough and committed task that has been carried out in this way with the European Court of Justice. I reiterate that we will support this proposal.
u2020-10-06-177	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Varga, lead speaker for the MSZP Group. Here.
u2020-10-06-178	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Public life and politics are interesting, how many ways to judge a specific question. I really thought there was a middle of things, or there was an optimism, and we could talk about it that way. Let's just say that the charges, the reduction of the rent as a matter and the discussions on this are not included in this category. I see that you have a very different view of the last seven or eight years in this respect of a pro-government politician, and a very different view of many of my opposition fellow Members and myself. I will discuss this in detail in my speech. First, some thoughts about the concrete proposal. Indeed, as has been said, if everything had been all right, we wouldn't have been here, Zoltán Balczó said that quite rightly. In connection with the judgment of the European Court of Justice, there are clearly points, in fact, in three laws, the Electricity Act, the Gas Supply Act and the Act on the Hungarian Energy and Utility Regulatory Office, which must be amended, since a infringement procedure has been closed by the judgment of the European Court of Justice. I note that the MSZP faction had already drawn attention to the problems in this regard. Let me state three things here because I do not know that, in any sense, this norm was actually drawn up in consultation with the Commission. However, it is true that the application against the decision of the MEKH will not have suspensory effect on the application of the decision. On the other hand, it is also true that the court cannot change the decision of the MEKH. Thirdly, it is also true that, in the event of an infringement decision, prices under the infringer decision shall be applied until a new decision has been taken by the MEKH. This is the specific story, the concrete solution, on which I do not know what preparation has been made, because this has not been mentioned in the expoze, but there may be question marks as to whether the specific solution corresponds to the judgment. But that's not what this debate has been about, let me tell you. We can approach this in many ways. By the way, I certainly hope that the Parliament will adopt an appropriate solution, either by means of amendments, because that would be in the interests of all of us. The concrete thing here is about overhead, gas prices, reduction of overhead and propaganda in this regard, and that is what this debate is all about. In the early 2000s, during the first decade of this century, we were able to observe very high global prices both in terms of gas prices and in terms of other energy sources for a number of reasons. This makes it quite clear that the national governments are in a position to exercise their powers. As committed as one government is socially, during this decade the MSZP-led governments have tried, for example, to compensate our most difficult countrymen with social gas price support to help them make these energy charges affordable. However, for many reasons there has been a significant decrease in the 2010s, especially in terms of gas prices on the world market. There are many reasons for this, such as the exploration of shale gas fields in countless places around the world, so there is a certain abundance of this energy carrier at present, and obviously all such processes lead to price reductions. A very serious reduction could be achieved. The current price is HUF 101 per cubic metre, but let me tell you that there was also a point in May this year when, according to this organization's website, the price had to be a little less than HUF 19 for a cubic meter of gas, but in recent months the price has not once exceeded HUF 30 forints. Obviously, in that political climate, in that political climate, the price of energy sources has enabled you to reduce the costs that the MSZP fraction otherwise supports. Of course, we would have done a fairer reduction if we had been able to, and we have made proposals that, especially in the low consumption category, the most needy ones would have even lower fees for both gas, electricity and water. But I have to say that it is completely incomprehensible why, since April 2014, no further steps have been taken to reduce gas prices in a situation where everything on the world market has made this possible. Everything. I'm pretty sure about the prices. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman, vice-president of the National Assembly, takes the chair.]] So the thing is, with your regulation, not just that people have been better off in the last few years, but we see that they are unfortunately worse, because they should have paid much less. A hundred-billion-dollar reserve is being created on this property, while it is becoming increasingly difficult for families, especially people with modest incomes. So I think that we need to act immediately, reduce the price of gas, whether in a lane system or take into account the need principle. We constantly make and make such proposals to you. [[19.00]] I would also put on the table the question that if gas prices had actually decreased in Hungary in the past few years, in line with market developments, then let's say that the use of solid fuel materials or various unhealthy techniques would have been reduced, let's say, either in Sajó Valley, Borsod County, where I come from, which causes a number of times, especially during the winter months, very serious smog and otherwise very unhealthy air, causing health damage to the people living there. I think we should work together in this, see what the options are. Here is a corona virus epidemic, with a mass of socio-economic problems, a very serious reduction in gas prices and I note that this obviously has an impact on the price of electricity, a resulting reduction in electricity prices could be significant, a significant step forward for countless Hungarian families. I also believe that, of course, there is a need for action, and I would like to say that we will certainly be waiting for the direction in which this proposal may be changed with amendments or after the summation of the Legislative Committee. However, I suggest that, since we have gone a little beyond the narrow presentation, we should act as soon as possible, whether together, unanimously, on what is necessary in this situation, and in line with the market processes, this opportunity to reduce the costs is guaranteed to millions of Hungarian families. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-10-06-179	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Varju, the lead speaker of the DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-180	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I think that each one of you needs or may have to take a stand on this issue, because, frankly, what you're doing is outrageous, that while there is a clear court judgment in which you've been condemned, you're claiming that you've won, and everything here has been fine, and you're trying to sell us the unsold one here. We are used to this, and this is not the first time that this is happening, so I think I would rather start by saying that, if the impact assessment which would otherwise have been prepared before any such law or amendment, if it were here, then it would indeed be obvious that you are not only of a communication nature, spoken in a text, to be said, but otherwise written down, there is something quite different, and there really is no connection between the two, then it would be, let us say, visible then. Therefore, I do not understand, and I cannot accept it, and I always say again that you have a law of your own, in which you have accepted the need to prepare preliminary impact assessments and, moreover, an ex-post impact assessment, because, Mr. State Secretary, which you have just started to classify, so many thousand billion forints, so many hundred billion forints, and why are there no more savings, Mr. Secretary of State? Why didn't you do more than that? Otherwise, this would have been possible if you had referred to the citizens that the gas price reduction and the reduction in energy prices that occurred in the market, if it had not been stolen by private companies that you created during this period, citizens would have had more. After all, if you had watched MET distribute the dividends that you could have said, those billions of forints were taken from the citizens, and you could have achieved a much higher reduction in the costs, a real reduction in the costs for citizens, rather than lying that you did something, while otherwise there was nothing other than a very significant decrease compared to the 2010 world market price until 2014-16, and you gave nothing of this to people and families. That is why I think that this is why they are not conducting an impact study, because it would turn out that there is much more to people than anything else. So with the big ruckus, it's not worth campaigning here in this House, let's just say, at home, among ourselves, and if you really have to, you can say it in your local forums, it's not worth it, because here, you're gonna get caught in this story anyway. Moreover, this bill or amendment itself is about something else. The court has clearly stated that Hungary has infringed law and has thus not guaranteed the right to an effective remedy against the regulations of the national regulatory authority setting the charges for access to the electricity and gas networks, and you must therefore amend this. So they didn't win it, they lost it, and, of course, they could have found out that the regulation that you initiated... because what happened? With what was created and created, in essence, I could say that not only universities, but also investors who were involved in the energy sector, which, by the way, at the time... because I mentioned to my fellow Member on the way here, but you are happy to mention the high gas prices, which, by the way, was due to the world market price, and don't forget to say that there was a gas price support system at the time, so that those who were most in need received very significant support, while, by the way, those who had to take care of the heating of their swimming pool shouldn't have to use the same thing as your method shut-in. So, in this sense, the fall in prices, the drop in prices on the world market, in this sense, you could say that you have stolen it, created a situation where you have basically made this market a state monopoly, but the fact is that the situation has not improved for citizens, but is worse, and you are using this power. I suppose the Secretary of State does not dispute that the gas price was at a low point in 2016 at 12 years, and that citizens could have been in a much better position compared to what you have just said here, because once again, this has nothing to do with the presentation, of course. However, the issue remains open, and this is the third issue I would like to mention that, when you refer to security of supply, we do not at the moment see, in the absence of these impact assessments, how this situation is developing or how the situation at the water utilities is changing by diverting resources from it to network development. There is also a replacement from the budget, let us say a separate item, but there is also the under-planned one, and as a result, security of supply and security of supply can be talked about calmly. It is questionable, more and more in the area of restoration and repair that must be done. The question is how safe we are here, in this sector, and especially in the electricity sector, in its network. I miss this very much that they have not helped the Parliament's clarity and have not given us the opportunity, just by concealing these data and refusing to provide us with it. So overall, I think that what has to be done is done, done, because for a few years it has been misjudged, and I think that they have deliberately created a situation that has also had market consequences. [[19.10]] You have created this situation. I just don't understand why you're taking advantage of this situation, and instead of making citizens the beneficiaries of the global gas price reduction, instead you're taking it and leaving it in the private sector, or spending on the budget that I think there's no need for. That is why, in our view, the most needed is to renew energy policy and to transform the energy sector, which should be launched. Here our energy dependence continues to exceed 62 percent. Our fossil energy supply is limited; our natural gas consumption is overweight, we obtain it from 82 percent imports; power stations are in an ageing stage. So, we could list what needs to be dealt with, although now, if we could say that they are piling up as a result of the aforementioned price policy, and they want to put this network in order, and they are not going to want to deal with it from European credit, I think that we are getting closer to ensuring the security of the supply system. Therefore, we say that the energy authority, which is independent of policy, should set prices, and in this way the conditions for doing so must be established. Let us begin the closer integration of the domestic market into the European market; let us introduce the special taxes which you have introduced in this sector; and I think that there is a great need for Community energy production. The use of alternative energy could also be discussed separately, but then perhaps I am going too far, I am not doing it, but I am telling you to implement what the Court has ordered you to do. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-06-181	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Varga-Damm Andrea.
u2020-10-06-182	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Excuse me... [[When you attach your microphone:]] I'm gonna talk right now, but I forgot to strap it on. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this proposal is nothing more than the execution of the allegedly won judgment of the European Court of Justice. So it's really amazing that in recent years, you feel like you've seen the whole country in a movie like this, because the Fidesz government is capable of saying everything in a completely different way than reality, but I think we're used to it. In any case, I would not have spoken for a long time, but I would have said that I would, of course, vote in favour of this proposal, because it is justified, but once again after Mr Secretary of State came with the reduction of the rent, which we all know, and all intelligent Hungarian people know was a huge bluff, given that, until 2001-2004, there was a slow but continuous increase in the price of energy sources on the world market, and between 2004-2008, there was an enormous increase in these prices, which was indeed very difficult for me to handle by the government at that time, which was not at all nice to me. And what did households see in the last four years of the Gyurcsány government? The fact that the prices of energy sources have increased compulsively, from month to month, in particular the price of gas, which the government has tried to compensate with compensation, so with various discounts for the poorer citizens, but the fact that there was not much to do with the fact that due to the import pressure, energy sources could only be obtained more expensively by the state or by the service provider. Then, what a fortunate situation occurred: while in 2012, for example, oil had a price of $14.65 per barrel, the price was well over $100, and by 2015 it was $26 per barrel. Think, nearly $100 in three years, that was a fall. Now, what did the government see in reducing energy prices? He saw a huge opportunity because he sold to society the 25 percent reduction in several steps, while, of course, including cost, everything, for at least 60 percent less, the band called MET, which was involved, could obtain energy sources from imports, and sold to the service providers at a price that they were unable to manage the 25 percent reduction without it... The resources for improvements and really for maintenance and system upgrades were no longer left, and virtually a large part of them were starved. My fellow Member, Zoltán Balczó, is right, that in previous years they made quite a profit, no doubt, so they could have saved up, but we all know that it was a huge hoax; of course, it was possible to win an election with it. Why? Because in the second half of the 2000s, an amazing number of people after real wages did not increase had no way of financing the increase in energy prices, and much of the income went to the overhead. I will never forget, Viktor Orbán said in one of his speeches in 2008 or 2009 that people are looking for the overhead. But not only did people look for the rent because it was historically developed, but also because, as a result of the blessed government activities, including the first Orbán government, wages remained at a low level, while for each product, even for domestic products, there were unremarkably large price increases. You like remembering 33 percent inflation periods, don't you? So what can you say? It can be said that today, because of this European Court of Justice judgment, legislation may have to be amended, that the system that the Fidesz government has built for the reduction of rent is legal in certain elements, but that it was completely unethical to Hungarian society, that is for sure. I'll never forget it, because I wasn't young at the time of the second Gyurcsány government, as Fidesz constantly bullied the government because it couldn't resist the increase in overhead costs. The other issue is that the communication of the then government was catastrophic, because unfortunately they couldn't get off the high horse, and they couldn't tell the simple language of the simple man what the processes were going on in the world, and if you don't like it, there's a market economy, and the god can't afford a state to compensate and finance the rent of an entire country's population. So they were clumsy, too, and they made the bed for the two-thirds win of Fidesz. By the way, this was one of the very important elements; although the gas price support system was, of course, established, there were so many voters who simply couldn't understand that economic imperatives had brought about that situation, and Fidesz had been able to reap the fruit of it for many years, hiding behind the cover of the reduction of the rent. I have one thing to say, honourable Members, honourable Secretary of State, that is not the case, and Hungarian citizens are not here to be producers of the profits of various energy service companies, and you know it. You know that. In this you are right, my fellow Member, László Varju, that MET's amazing profit creation is basically about the fact that it is being paid by citizens, the reduction of the rent here, and the reduction of the rent there. By the way, I do not understand what the amount that has not already been paid in our accounts is coming from, as no one has guaranteed that the last prices that would have been maintained at the start of the reduction would have been the prices that would have had to be paid on a continuous basis, since, whether you like it or not, the prices of these energy sources have changed due to the price of energy prices on the world market. So I don't understand what they're adjusting it to, but I do know one thing: if I look at a current gas bill and look at a 2008 gas bill, I'll pay the same oddly. [[19.20]] So I do not understand that the difference that is being shown today is what comes out of it, because we are not paying any less today than when energy prices on the world market were three times as high as, say, in 2014-15. So it's all a big scam show, and nobody understands the context, and they don't really explain it to people, though, as I see, people are so tired that they probably don't even look at the line about how much money they don't have to pay. But, of course, it's very good for propaganda. A hundred words end with great respect: energy security, affordable energy prices, decent service and honesty. If the government exercises this as a gesture to citizens, this is what it does, then, with great respect, the opposition will cooperate in this. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-06-183	Thank you. There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congressman András Aradski, representative of KDNP. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-184	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. I'm really an optimistic person and I'm trying to explain why the reduction of the overhead was a real advantage for universal service users, in Hungarian: for the majority of the population, we can say, an advantage was the reduction of the overhead. All three speakers on the left emphasise that sentence. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I'm not left-wing!]] There was a terrible increase in global gas prices between 2002 and 2010. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Well, it was.]] The one thing that should be taken into account is that Hungary acquired gas through the long-term Russian gas contract at the time, and I do not know where we stand with this thing, but we have had such a contract in the last ten years. These contracts have always reduced the weight and proportion of world market prices in terms of price monitoring. Thus, the increase in gas prices from the point of view of Russian gas imported into Hungary was not nearly as high as you have established from the statistical data ahead. That's one thing. The second thing is that there is the accusation that at this reduction in costs, some businesses, gas companies and energy companies have become rich. I do not understand why they come to Hungary to get rich when they are here in front of me from the point of view of the gas price of the numbers in Budapest, i.e. in Hungary the cheapest is the universal service price. On the other hand, in Stockholm, it is almost ten times more than it is possible to make more money there. But the same applies to other cities, triple and double in Tallinn, Ljubljana, Berlin, Prague. So in these cities, you could earn better than the cheapest universal service provider in Budapest. Explain that to me. How is it that gas prices are more expensive in other cities, when the world market price has fallen lower than they did, and we have the cheapest price than the lowest or lower world market prices? There's another slide at your house. They take out a reduction in the world market price for gas. It's like buying wheat in a crowd. Well, it's obviously cheaper, but if it's taken per kilo, it's more expensive. The price of universal service providers reflects the world market price, but not as much as you think. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Well, that's what I'm talking about, yes!]] It's not just us. Then why is there a gas price of EUR 22 in Stockholm? Why is there a gas price of EUR 7.8 in Lisbon and EUR 2.95 in Lisbon? You can tell me that. You're simply slipping. They slide, distort reality, and do not speak professionally to this question. But that's what they've always done. This was done in 2013 at the time of the introduction of the reduction. That's what they did between 2015 and 18:00. They always said, of course, that the world market price was falling, why the gas price wasn't lower. Because the gas price is the lowest in Hungary. The lowest! And we get it the same way, we get it from the same sources as the others. This is due to the reduction of the overhead. The second thing is why the government was inaccessible between 2002 and 2010. Because, please, in 1994 the energy sector was sold to foreign investors in a hairy way. They wanted profits, and the government did not have the means to enforce the interests of the Hungarian people between 2002 and 2010. After 2010, the Hungarian Government has restructured these relations. So our institutional system, the gas storage system, came into Hungarian hands, we were able to get back 25 percent plus one vote in MOL. These are all means by which, if the government lives well, it can keep gas and other electricity suppliers prices stable. By the way, if you look at the figures and the totality of the energy sector, between 2002 and 2006 foreign investors had about 60 percent dominance. In the Czech Republic, there was such a monopoly company, it also knew about 60 percent of the electricity and gas trading itself, that was ČEZ, and still has a strong influence, it was a Czech national state enterprise. There were no such surges between 2002 and 2010 in gas prices and electricity, as in Hungary. The kind of privatisation madness, the irresponsible farming that took place in 94, came back between 2002 and 2010. We have put an end to this, and once again, we have successfully put an end to the reduction of the rent, because we have been able to keep all the values of the reduction in the rent, and we have also been able to protect it before the European Court of Justice. Because that element of the European Commission's action was not accepted by the court, which would otherwise have a direct negative impact on the price of gas and on the price of services. In Hungarian, it would increase the price, because if you had to count the costs of the price calculation mentioned in the judgment, the price would be higher. But we protected that. We protected the most important thing for the people, and we kept the value of the reduction. Therefore, I say that only congratulations can be given to the Hungarian government, who has taken this fight through. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-06-185	Thank you. I now give the floor to Zoltán Balczó, representative of Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-186	Thank you very much. I do not want to go into the general energy and demand reduction debate now, although it could be analysed in quite a lot of ways. I agreed on many things with the speakers before me, including László Varju, but at the end of his speech he talked about how practically an energy strategy should take into account the vulnerability of Hungary, the fact that more than 80 percent of gas comes from abroad and listed this. I do not know, but it seemed that Mr. Congressman continued to take the view that, without saying so, the maintenance of the capacity of the Paks Nuclear Power Plant is a vital issue for Hungary. You were a Member between 2006 and 10 when György Podolak was chairman of the Energy Sub-Committee of the Economic Commission, I was a Member of the European Parliament and member of the Energy Committee. Back then, the Energy Committee visited Strasbourg, headed by György Podolak, and there was János Süli as CEO. There we discussed with the Hungarian representatives, and my opinion was the same, and the MSZP also agreed that capacity maintenance was necessary. András Gyürk used tactics and expressed his doubts about what he would do if Fidesz were to be on the government. It was just a recall, because I don't know your position right now, just that what you said at the end was indirectly a reference to the need for this energy production. But here I, too, have deviated from the original legal subject, so to speak. I'm just not exactly familiar with the position of the MSZP. [[19.30]] The specific question, then, is to conclude what doubts arise about this investment. In my previous term, I suggested that a permanent parliamentary committee be set up to monitor the investment in Paks. Only I would like to separate the question of the need to preserve this capacity, from whether there are any sensitive issues or more serious issues that we may need to examine in connection with the investment. With regard to Mr Aradski, if I were to approach the position below because I do not necessarily want to confront, let us try to get a little closer with the numbers, namely that we won 98 percent of the case. You said that there were about five, five or eight cases that had to be dealt with in advance with the Commission before turning to the Court of Justice. Obviously, if the subject of the current condemnation was one in relation to the system usage fee and others, then one in five is 20 percent. But my approach is even more objective, and the only reason I'm riding on this is because they said we won the lawsuit. The Commission referred two cases to the Court of Justice. We won one of the two cases, we lost the other. You think we've won the most important one. That's probably true, but it's more like 50 percent numerically. Since the whole agenda today is based on what happened in Luxembourg at the Court of Justice, I find the figure that we won 98 percent to be a bit excessive. Objective question, two questions: one has been won, and the other has been condemned. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the independents.]]
u2020-10-06-187	Thank you. I now give the floor to László Varju, a representative of DK. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-188	Thank you very much. I will try to explain to my fellow Member, Aradski, why it is actually very simple, and this can be done briefly. When we say that citizens, families and homes could have had more use when the world market price fell, the only thing we should not have done was to put in the middle a private trader, partly a private trader, although MOL could have been practically an owner, could have been included in this, who was the real beneficial owner of this story, and otherwise, the amount of dividends paid from it is there, which we can divide up, as many families would have. Now, you didn't do that. I could say that this is quite similar to the method, given by you, why they are not doing this in Stockholm, because the question is not whether there is a higher price or not, but that there are no private beneficial owners, for which it costs more, so it enriches you, the moonyard that is behind you. I'm saying that you, let's just say, do it systematically, because it's exactly the same as what you did with the settlement policy. While, by the way, in other European countries, it is primarily done by public actors and institutions for a specific cost, instead you chose to include private players, the costs were skyrocketed, and by doing so, let's say, you have brought in 7 to 8 private entrepreneurs, who were appointed by the Economic Commission under the leadership of Antal Rogán and trusted companies held by the Minister of Finance. So, if you hadn't done that, otherwise, instead of your larceny, the citizens would have been much better off. As a matter of fact, very briefly, yes, sorry, I would like to add one more thing. The fact that Hungary's energy supply can come from several directions today, let's just say that it raises minimum questions as to how the sixth will be completed now, because there are capacity issues, and it doesn't matter who they contract with. Secondly, what surrounds the country has also made significant improvements in the European Member States. Europe has achieved, with the assistance of the countries, that, otherwise, at least we are not unilaterally vulnerable from the side of the pipeline. As to what the Hungarian Socialist Party wants with Paks, I don't know. But what the Democratic Coalition wants me to do right now is basically, I'm saying that the treaty, let's just say gently, was premature, signed by the Prime Minister, and unnecessary, because it threw away the possibility of ten years of technical progress. We know that in 2035, if I remember correctly, we should enter the new capacity, until then the country has sufficient security of supply or at least production capacity. These ten years have now been wasted practically, Hungary has started a development, and I do not know exactly where we are at with the pit building opportunity that it has started, and the European Commission has approved it or not, because it will actually decide whether or not this nuclear power plant will come out of it. Today, I say that it raises minimum questions, and by the way, technical progress can bring it along, bringing with it that this capacity must not be built by the construction of the nuclear power plant, but that other options must also be examined. Now, without going into the details, that's what I wanted to add. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-06-189	Thank you. I now give the floor to Andras Aradski, representative of KDNP, for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-190	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Congressman Balczó, allow me to be so biased against myself that if we look at two cases, I know that is 50-50 percent. But the truth is much more complicated than that, because I didn't say that we won the lawsuit, but that we won 98 percent of the fight for reducing the rent. That's different. The other thing. By the way, there may be two decisions in a court ruling, one of which weighs, say, 80-90 percent, if we win that one, that's better, and if we get a little bit reprimanded in court costs, then we can't say that we won only half of the case. Believe me, Congressman, with the best of intentions, I say that where we started from before the opening of the infringement procedure, what we were asked to do, what we were asked to do, what we were asked to do in relation to the Hungarian government regarding the reduction of the rent, we were able to protect it very effectively, but not only to protect it, but to convince our partners who were negotiating there in a very constructive way, on a professional basis. This is a truly important success that we have been able to defend a sound decision with sound arguments.
u2020-10-06-191	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] No further comments were received. The general debate is closed. I'll ask the author how you'd like to react. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-10-06-192	Thank you very much. Since I have personally addressed him, and many statements have been made that cannot be answered, I would certainly like to add a few points to the debate. In fact, I was thinking of Attila József, who was very fond of the left, who published a book of poems entitled "Very Painful" at the time. From what I have heard, what follows most of all is that a successful government programme and struggle, such as the policy of reducing costs in Hungary, hurts the opposition representatives terribly, and this disturbs their thinking. [[19.40]] I heard such words today about the reduction of the rent, mainly on the part of László Varju, but also on the left: propaganda, scam, show, bluff, overhang. Now, if you take into account the simple facts already mentioned by Congressman Aradski and Secretary of State, then the formula is very simple, because, on the other hand, the formula that, when you govern, the most expensive natural gas in Europe has been given to consumers and, as a result of the policy of reducing gas, today, the lowest gas price is paid to Hungarian consumers at official prices in Europe. I would like to point out that, by the way, the Hungarian Government has fully implemented the rules of the third package of the European Union. This means that no Hungarian citizen has, of course, lost the right to choose a gas supplier freely. So, if what they say is true, namely that today we are stealing Hungarian consumers' money in some unexplained form, but in any case in some form of conspiracy and secret, then it would be the case that a lot of free market gas dealers would be attacking Hungarian consumers with alternative offers, as they could simply offer excellent offers to Hungarian consumers under the regulated universal service prices. We are of the opinion that we want to provide reliable, predictable, cheap energy services to Hungarian consumers through universal service. We think that we can do this, but if free market traders think otherwise, then we are free to go to consumers and take them to the free market. We think, and from these comparative data, that traders do not push for consumers, that is, the universal service authority price system makes a predictable, competitive offer to Hungarian consumers. Calling it a bluff, calling it a scam, calling it a theft, calling it a show show, I think it can only mean that this is a very painful point for you, that this story has gone so well. Not to mention, while we're talking about numbers, calling it a bluff that, as a result of a seven-year policy, consumers who had to be turned off because they couldn't pay their bills, today they can pay their bills, when this number drops by 70 percent, when the number of outstanding amounts is reduced by ten billion, it's called bluff. As a matter of fact, if you could give more to the people: of course, you could give the gas for free, it would only be that when you might have access to the possibilities, you would then raise these prices again, as you did at the time. We have learned from the fact that in markets where wholesale prices are the most volatile, where oil prices, if anything, are one of the products whose price development cannot be predicted, it is worth making predictable, long-term prices on these markets. When prices are high, we pay from the reserve when prices are low, we put the money aside for better times and not in private companies. I don't know, this must have escaped your attention that the foreign businesses to which you said we had chased away investors were driven away from Hungary by this government, these investors that have gone away, because there are significant foreign investors in Hungary today, let me not name them, but buy them out by the Hungarian government, buy back what you had said at the time, exactly as Secretary of State Aradszki said. So I don't even understand what we're talking about in this case, because that bought back property today was awarded to MVM, the Hungarian Electricity Works, and the 100% state-owned Hungarian Electricity Works. Today, the sale of gas by universal service providers to all Hungarian retail customers is carried out by the 100% state-owned Hungarian Electricity Works. So you think the state-owned company is stealing the money of Hungarian citizens? Well, if he's stockpiling the funds there, he's gonna pay the budget at the most. So I simply don't know how to interpret the allegations they're making. Supply security. You are concerned about the security of supply in Hungary. I would like to point out that network companies operating in the electricity and gas markets today guarantee Hungary the security of supply that we are enjoying today. In the natural gas sector, our gas storage facilities, which also had to be bought back from foreign investors and then from MOL, are currently full of gas up to 100 percent, have been committed to their full capacity by market players because we have established a regulation, and it is indeed true that we are now connected to six neighbouring countries in the natural gas sector, each with an excellent relationship. Hungary has become an unavoidable country for gas trading in Central Europe, which guarantees Hungary an incredible high level of security of supply in the area of gas supply today, and we have managed to do this together with the reduction of gas prices. And then let me not list network investments in the electricity sector. So the criticism that I have to say is that the reduction of the rent leads to the result that network companies in Hungary are being starved by regulation today, completely contradicts all the facts, the reverse is true: our network interconnection capacities have increased to an unprecedented extent with our neighbours. By the way, in the electricity sector, we will be preparing new cross-border capacities in the heating season, and also with Slovenia, after many years, on 14 October, the new Slovenian-Hungarian electricity interconnection will be launched. So I would no longer say that I should ask for what was said in the name of MET, because it should be his business, but I would just like to say once again that we consider on the part of the government that it was indeed a seven-year struggle, that we have indeed managed to protect the results of this process, in this case, of the Hungarian policy to reduce the debt, and that we have managed to maintain the possibility for Member States to set an official price for retail consumers in the new electricity directive at Member State level. This has been discussed by the Commission all along. We were of the opinion that this was a Member State's competence, as is the case in the United States, only to add and finally to achieve these results. [[19.50]] And that in a single case of procedural law, in this court case, Hungary, so to say, has fallen behind in its opinion, means that the situation of the Hungarian Energy Office, which was previously confirmed by the right of regulation, is changing. In fact, we thought earlier that the possibility that the Constitutional Court could provide an appropriate form of appeal to the parties concerned in relation to the regulation of the Office was an appropriate, sufficient possibility of appeal, but the Court held that this was not sufficient to ensure full European rules in this area. So, after all, this case of procedural law is being corrected in this proposal. So, in addition to all this, we continue to maintain that Hungary has won the debate with the European Commission, which is, by the way, the debate on public policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-06-193	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Independent Member Andrea Varga-Damm applied for a post-meeting speech:. They were able to make use of the opportunity, which was not the title. I'll give you the floor in five minutes.
u2020-10-06-194	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, On 3 October 2020, the 30th anniversary of the second reunification of Germany was now. On January 8, 1871, the first German unity, which created a huge empire in Europe, was the result of the final collapse of the empire in connection with World War II. After World War II, the Western half of Germany, which was founded under the name of the Federal Republic of Germany, from the US Marshall aid, which was practically a loan, rebuilt the country after the war. Hungary received Marshall aid of the same value between 2004 and 2019 from the European Union, which not only rebuilt or seriously developed the country, but also reduced most of the money into an oligarch-creating tool and created a minimal increase in value both in the economy and in the nation's wealth. When the negotiations for reunification began before 3 October 1990, France and Britain, as the strongest European powers, were extremely opposed to German unification, given that they were still driven by the sentiment shown by this empire from the unification in Germany in 1871 to the Second World War. But their calculation didn't work, because fortunately, the united Germany became a pledge of European peace. The opening of the Eastern European border was the fastest driving force in Germany's unification. Then the Eastern European countries were a meeting place for the GDR citizens, and then their migration to the Federal Republic of Germany was a historic moment that should have been seized by the government formed after the first freely elected parliament at that time, and all the extraordinary disadvantages that our country suffered after the First and Second World Wars, and we were called guilty nations by never starting a war, and we were never guilty, and this historic moment should have been seized after the reunification of Germany. But the Hungarian government could not grasp this either, because basically the government consisted of the students of high school and former schoolmates, and not of the well-known people with great international authority who could have helped us alleviate the harm that we suffered after the first and second world wars, and in the socialist system we continued to suffer. Since the unification of Germany, he has not promised the people, his citizens, that it will then be better than the Hungarian government has always been, but that they serve the common good at every moment, and that the most important motivation is for the German government, which is united at all times, so that everyone can live in everyday life what they are created for and to which they feel they have affinity. Equal opportunities, the democratic rule of law system, are fully in place, and while there are many criticisms of the German government's relation to migration, one thing cannot be forgotten: Germany's government is based on Christian foundations. By 1998, after the German merger, 59 percent of the East Germans said that their living conditions had improved between 1990 and 1998. This was a big deal because a lot of people in East Germany were skeptical about whether this unification would benefit them. To this day, quite a lot of people still say that they expected more from it. By 1996, however, the real value of wages in Hungary decreased by 26 percent, which means that, despite Hungary's ability to build its life in a new democratic system under market economy conditions, it was unable to follow the path that Germany successfully completed. The real value of pensions in Hungary decreased to 31 percent during this period and reached the 1989 level again in Hungary by 2004. I only brought some data in parallel in comparison with Germany, the united Germany and Hungary, and I can tell you that they succeeded, unfortunately we did not. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-06-195	Thank you. I now give the floor to Ádám Steinmetz, the representative of Jobbik, who has applied for a statement after the agenda: It's also a title for the vineyards. Here you go.
u2020-10-06-196	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the people of Somogy, I would like to draw the attention of this House to the long-standing and unsolved problem of people living in the Polish region. In the early 2010s, there was a public health emergency due to the nitrite content of drinking water in Szőlsgyörök and at the same time the ammonium content in the neighbouring Gyugy was 23 percent higher. In September 2013, the Polish and Surroundings Drinking Water Quality Improvement Association received 278 million forints, a European Union resource, non-refundable funding, and because the members of the association had a common water supply system for the settlements of Lengyeltóti, Kisberény, Öreglak, Gyugy and Szőlősgyörök, so they wanted to solve the water quality problem together. And what did you promise people back then, fellow Members? I quote:. During the investment, the harmful content of fixed drinking water will be minimized, establishing the long-term right of people living here to a healthy life and to a healthy environment. And although the support was spent until the last forint, the quality of drinking water has not improved or even got worse. According to the people of Györök, the water is brownish, unpleasant smell, irony, essentially undrinkable, takes the laundry, leaves a mark on the bathtub, bathrooms, and not in one case also destroys household appliances. As I said, the problem has existed for years, but it is becoming more and more unbearable, especially in the summer months, when due to the increased water demand, the vineyard system is shut down from the Polish network, and thus the vineyards' wells supply drinking water to the settlement, which is not guaranteed to be de-ironed and filtered at all. Earlier, in the presence of Attila Móring József, in a residential forum, it was said that water makes a person smell worse after a shower than before. [[20.00]] But the situation has not changed since then, so I contacted the competent leader of the Transdanubian Regional Waterworks, who informed me that the taste of the water is due to the high iron content, and that the brownish colour can be attributed to the iron and manganese spills which are deposited first in the plumbing and which will eventually break down. It is the company's duty to clean the plumbing system, but it is in vain to do so regularly if high iron water continues to enter the pipeline. The Polish water treatment system is not suitable for filtering, cleaning, and, taking into account the principle of regionality, it is necessary to increase the capacity of the Polish well filtration system by 50 per cent by purchasing and installing a new sand and coal filtration system. In addition, it is appropriate to extend the treatment facility in order to accommodate these equipment. According to some calculations, this investment would be possible from some HUF 50 million. Ladies and gentlemen, However, this development cannot be expected from the Transdanubian Regional Waterworks, since these wells are owned by the municipalities. The municipalities can't even raise the amount in question together. With all due respect, I ask the Fidesz Government to take steps to resolve this problem as soon as possible, to provide tender money, resources or possibly preferential loans in order to get clean water into the glass as soon as possible in Szőlősgyörök. Thank you for listening.
u2020-10-06-197	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. The Parliament will resume its meeting next week, Monday, at 11 a.m. Meeting day's closed. Have a good rest.
