u2020-11-18-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 18th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the meeting will be Mr Attila Móring and Csaba Gyure. I welcome all those who monitor our work. Dear Parliament, General debates are now taking place. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in view of the increased compliance with the rules of the pandemic situation, only the next speaker and the following two speakers should be present in the Chamber as far as possible. Dear Parliament, The general debate on the announcement of an Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia until its closure follows. The government referral T/13641. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Mosóczi, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-11-18-1	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Please allow me to present to you the bill on the publication of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The aim of the draft is to publish the Air Transport Agreement concluded in Riyadh on 21 October 2020. The final conclusion of the text of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia was authorised by a government decision of November last year. The text of the Agreement was finalised with the Saudi Party in the autumn of 2019. Dear House, There is currently neither scheduled nor charter services between Hungary and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. On the one hand, the Agreement complies with EU standards and, on the other hand, allows regular passenger and freight flights to be launched within a modern framework between any international commercial airport in both countries. Its conclusion thus provides an excellent opportunity to expand and develop bilateral economic and trade relations. The aim of the Hungarian and Saudi parties is to facilitate the establishment and operation of flights between their territories, ensuring the highest level of security and protection of international air services. In accordance with the rules of designation and authorisation, both Contracting Parties are entitled to designate one or more airlines for the operation of air services, to withdraw or amend such designation. The Agreement also provides that both Contracting Parties must ensure a fair and level playing field for airlines designated by the Contracting Parties for the operation of flights on specific routes. The parties should be able to determine freely the frequency and capacity of international air transport offered by each designated airline. Dear Parliament, In order to facilitate aviation safety, the Parties may at any time request consultations on safety standards adopted by the other Party in any area concerning aircraft crew, aircraft or their operations, which shall be held within 30 days of the request. The Agreement also provides that in the event of any dispute concerning the interpretation or application of the Agreement, the Contracting Parties shall first attempt to settle by negotiation. Where any Contracting Party considers it necessary, the Parties may at any time notify each other of their intention to terminate by diplomatic means, such notification shall be communicated simultaneously to the International Civil Aviation Organisation. Dear House, The Agreement shall enter into force on the 30th day following receipt of the subsequent notification of the related constitutional requirements in the course of a diplomatic exchange between the Contracting Parties. I would ask the Honourable Parliament to adopt the bill tabled and to support the publication of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-11-18-2	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Mosóczi. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Among the current restrictions, it may seem a dream that we are discussing the regulation and possibility of another air relationship in Parliament today, but we are doing so in the hope that we will once again restart our air traffic with full capacity. If we recall the period before the epidemic, we can say that the air traffic in Budapest was characterised by a continuous expansion, and we started new flights. It may be difficult to list how many new flights have started, but if one can be mentioned, we may remember the announcement of a year ago concerning the Polish airline LOT, when it was said that a direct flight from Budapest to Seoul, South Korea. It may also have been seen that a new regional international centre is being established in Budapest, for which we have done a great deal. The proposal ahead will complete a six to seven-year process, and will point to the fact that negotiations started in 2014 on the establishment of the agreement. But not only did we negotiate with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, but also with the governments of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, the Maldives, the Republic of Equatorial Guinea and the Republic of Angola. We have reached the end of the ongoing negotiations with the Saudi party, and that is why this agreement lies before us. As Minister of State has said, we do not currently have a regular or charter service with the Saudi party, and this agreement provides a legal basis for developing this area and for developing our economic and cultural relations. The Saudi party has designated Saudi Arabian Airlines and Hungary has accepted this. Other areas of aviation cooperation are also on the agenda and are under negotiation. We can say that this is a very important step forward in the relationship between us and the Saudi and Hungarian parties, since Saudi Arabia has significant geopolitical influence, plays an important role and plays an important role in economic and security policy, and plays an important role in the political, religious and religious aspects of the Arab world, in the Islamic religious community, and also in the area of global energy supply. So we can say that the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is inevitable in this region. [[8.40]] The emerging and perspective economic reforms provide new opportunities for domestic and other international economic operators. Our diplomatic relations were recorded in 1995, and our embassy in Riyadh started operating in 1996. Our intergovernmental and parliamentary relations are also lively, and perhaps one of the most interesting and significant areas is water management, since Saudi Arabia has a very significant water shortage. A great deal is being done to stop this, to desalination of sea water, sewerage, sewage treatment, and water distribution reform. They do quite well, as 50 percent of drinking water comes from desalination in the country. In the field of water recycling, however, Hungary was also asked for and advised, which we provide, and the Budapest water world meetings also provide a significant opportunity to exchange our experiences. Perhaps I would like to mention three more areas quickly to support the fruitful nature of our relations. On the one hand, we initiated humanitarian cooperation, which started strategic discussions in Riyadh at the beginning of March 2020. There is also a tourism negotiation agreement in progress, which can be signed from the Hungarian side, and we have also initiated the establishment of a Hungarian-Saudi innovation higher education group. The ITM took steps in this regard in October 2019. Thank you very much for the negotiations on the current agreement with our embassy in Riyadh. We can say that our foreign representatives have expanded, we have developed this network; the destinations from Budapest are expanding, so we have tried to raise our international capital in this area. Of course, as everywhere, the epidemic has stopped or slowed down these processes, but we are confident that the 25th anniversary to be celebrated this year, which means the inclusion of our diplomatic relationship, if we cannot celebrate it with the colourful, cultural and other programs that we had planned, could be a kind of seal of cooperation between our countries. In the hope of this and in the hope of our relations blooming again after the epidemic has passed, I would like to urge my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-18-4	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Bartos. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-11-18-5	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, Indeed, as has already been said by several speakers, there is currently no air traffic between Hungary and Saudi Arabia, nor regular flights, nor charter flights, although this would be very important in many respects, because perhaps it would also be an important tourist destination for both countries and, obviously, the expansion of trade flows would be a very important task for Hungary in my view. We are talking about a huge country in Saudi Arabia, more than 2 million square kilometres, more than 20 times the territory of Hungary; it is true that a significant part of this area is very rarely inhabited, since there are 33 million inhabitants of total Saudi Arabia, which is also located in the Middle East, on the Arabian peninsula. Saudi Arabia is not as old a country as Hungary, since the germ of Saudi Arabia has started since 1744, and the first ruler is listed from the one whose dynasty, its descendants, is still leading the country. It is now the ruler of Salman ibn Abdul-Aziz who is leading the state. His capital has 8 million inhabitants, which means it's a huge city. In view of the deserts, its population density is only 15 people per square kilometer, so it is about one-sixth and one-seventh of Hungary's. However, this country has a very significant oil resource, and this is the number one country, if you think about oil. It has special weather, since we are talking primarily about desert areas. Dry, it can be up to 50 degrees in the desert in the summer, while in winter it can also freeze regularly. A shocking thing I have read about Saudi Arabia, that I am joining Mónika Bartos's performance in terms of fresh water and here, too, is extremely poor, and there is neither standing nor running water in Saudi Arabia, but there are only temporary flows. The average precipitation is one hundred millimeters per year, and it actually falls in 2-3 months, but then the rainstorms are very common, and this is when these streams of water develop in Saudi Arabia, as I said, with many deserts. However, in 1938, as long as it was a relatively poor country, oil is discovered in Saudi Arabia, and after the end of World War II, major production of this oil will begin. This will certainly trigger the country's prosperity, but it will retain its state form, which is, by the way, an absolute monarchy. Parliament does not operate in this form, as it does in Hungary. The legal order in Saudi Arabia is Sharia. By the way, it is interesting that this year the death penalty was abolished six months ago, not in such a way that the death penalty has ceased, but in the case of minors, the death penalty cannot be applied to minors. So it has been liberalised in this, if you can say so, the country. One more interesting thing: the operation of parties is strictly forbidden in the country. Fifty years ago, the majority of the population were nomads, and in 1962 slavery was abolished. So we can see that there is some difference between the development in Hungary and the development in Saudi Arabia. So we can see where the country began, where they stood 50 years ago, and around World War II. Compared to this, the country has now progressed to the fact that 86 percent of the people now live in cities, so in 50 years the majority of the nomadic people have become city dwellers in the first place. The population, we know, is Arab, 90 percent of the country, and 10 percent of South Asia, are mainly immigrants and migrant workers. His religion is 100% Muslim. We know that it is a strictly religious country, and the law also requires that only those who have Muslim religion, 85 percent Sunni, 15 percent Shiites are in this country. Returning to oil, 90 percent of its export revenue comes from oil, and the oil industry accounts for almost half of GDP. Saudi Arabia is also the world's largest oil producer and the largest exporter of oil. It's amazing that one quarter of the world's oil treasure, the currently known oil treasure, is in Saudi Arabia, so it's in this country. In many ways, economic data is enviable, although I note that if it had a quarter of the oil treasure of the earth in Hungary, we would probably be better off, too. But if you compare it a little, your public debt is 17 percent of GDP. This has only jumped so high because there has been a significant drop in oil prices recently. Before that, the ratio was between 4 and 5 percent. And inflation is minus 0.8 percent. I think it's a long way from being enviable. And its GDP per capita is close to 55,000 US dollars. Speaking of aviation on this agenda, it should also be mentioned that the country has 71 airports. It's a shocking number. This also shows how vivid air traffic is. It has almost no railway network in Saudi Arabia, but it has more air traffic. [[8.50]] It is the 19th most visited country in the world, so it carries a great tourist traffic, but here we can mostly talk not about tourism, but about the pilgrimage of Muslims, because the largest pilgrimage sites in the Muslim world are in this country; about Medina, Mecca, I think we all heard. This is why it can be interesting, for example, to see the Muslim world, the Arab world, the desert lifestyle, the desert nomadic lifestyle. It is obviously exotic to all Hungarians, and we are interested in it, so the tourist traffic could be much bigger, although it is not so easy to travel to Saudi Arabia, because they do not even issue a normal visa, they only issue visas for groups, so it is possible to travel here at the moment. So if you just think you're going to Saudi Arabia, well, it's not gonna be that easy, and you can't go on an organized tour, and you can't get to the most interesting places in Mecca, Medina, because they don't let people who don't have Muslim religion into these cities, so they can't visit these Muslim pilgrim places. So it's not that simple, but I think there's plenty to see, and if we're talking about such a developed country, which has evolved in this form over 50 years and has become one of the key players in the world economy, I think it would be very important in terms of trade flows to establish as close a relationship as possible between Hungary and Saudi Arabia. That is why it is important for air traffic to start, and the legal framework and the possibility of this to be adopted by the Hungarian Parliament, which is why we obviously support this bill. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2020-11-18-6	Thank you very much, Congressman Csaba Gyure. I now give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-11-18-7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The submission is addressed at the request of the authority necessary for the signature of the Air Transport Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and on the initiative of the publication of the Agreement by law. Negotiations between aviation authorities started in 2014 on the establishment of the agreement. On 21 October 2020, Mr.Péter Szijjártó signed the agreement with his partner in Saudi Arabia on his official visit to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The Agreement facilitates the establishment, operation of flights between the two countries, the highest level of security and security of international air services, and covers rules on the operation of flights in air transport between the two countries, the cooperation of aviation authorities and the coordination of measures for aviation safety. The signed agreement will contribute to economic cooperation between the two countries and to the development of trade relations through air transport. The agreement complies with EU standards and allows regular passenger and freight flights between any international commercial airport in both countries to be launched. The agreement outlines the concepts of aviation, which I would like to highlight, and the rules on the granting of traffic rights provide guidance on certain rights of the Contracting Parties. In accordance with the rules of designation and authorisation, both Contracting Parties are entitled to designate one or more airlines for the operation of air services and to withdraw or amend such designation. The agreement provides for the possibility of withdrawing or suspending operating licences where appropriate. The Agreement also provides that each Contracting Party must ensure a fair and level playing field for the designated airlines of each Contracting Party to operate on a specific route. In order to facilitate aviation safety, the Parties may at any time request consultations on safety standards adopted by the other Party. The designated airlines of either Party shall submit the flight schedules for approval to the aviation authority of the other Party no later than 30 days before the introduction of the services on the marked route. The parties may at any time indicate their intention to terminate by diplomatic means. The conclusion of an air transport agreement between governments provides the legal basis for the launch of flights between the two countries and contributes to the further expansion of economic and cultural relations. Ladies and gentlemen, It contains rules concerning legislative matters in terms of the content of the agreement, and therefore, in view of the provisions of the Act on the Procedure for International Contracts, Parliament may authorise the recognition of the mandatory scope of the agreement. KDNP supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-8	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group.
u2020-11-18-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Good morning, everyone. Several people here have talked about how the old dream of millions of people living on wages and salaries will come true in order to get to Saudi Arabia directly. In my very brief comment, I would like to say that we are very much looking forward to the epidemic situation in the world allowing it to happen, and we are not standing in the way of any dreamer who wants to go directly and not through complicated Dubai, so the MSZP will also support this bill. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-18-10	Thank you very much, Congressman Gyula Molnár. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Oláh, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-11-18-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, Think about the patient who's in the hospital right now, and maybe he's watching, listening to this show, and he thinks he's in some bad world, and he doesn't want to believe that this Parliament is dealing with matters like this when there's a lot of work to be done. [[Towards the pro-government benches:]] You, my fellow Member, know that there are a lot of tasks to be done in connection with the epidemic that this government has failed to do. In the summer he was dealing with the regulation of casinos, so please, he was thinking about how to rewrite casino tenders at halftime to the Prime Minister's office. This is what you have been doing, but you have forgotten to order enough flu shots, my fellow Members, and now this patient in the hospital sees you talking about going to Saudi Arabia. He is interested in surviving these few days, honourable fellow Members, because the government has forgotten to work in the summer, has done nothing in order to get through the second phase of the epidemic normally. It would be understandable if we deal with this if we had all the necessary billings. But, honourable government, honourable fellow Members, today's news is that you don't even pay for those transferred workers in health care who are being transferred to another hospital! They won't give you their money! They say when you go back to your seat, you'll get it! Then don't take the government's or pay as long as these people, health workers, are not paid. They, who still work in the hospital today, do not care, honourable fellow Members, how to travel to Saudi Arabia! He wants to know how they get paid for being there and working 24 hours a day. You're working on a hospital reorganization right now because you didn't have time to think about it in the summer. They're trying to set up a hospital peak organ now. Why didn't they do this in the summer? Didn't you have time, fellow Members? This trip to Saudi Arabia is important, but let's not make ourselves laugh that this is the most important question. You weren't able to calculate the number of flu shots. They ordered as many flu shots as my fellow Members ordered three and five years ago. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] Didn't anyone tell you there was an epidemic and the flu vaccine could help? You've already ordered 1.3 million in advance, as you've done before, only used 600 to 700 thousand, and now there's a lot more people out there who want to get flu shots! The patients are in line, the GPs write down that there aren't enough vaccinations. And you're in Saudi Arabia to see how to get there. What you should be thinking about is why if someone checks in, if they have symptoms, the ambulance leaves in six days to test him. Isn't that what you're supposed to be dealing with? If that were okay, then it would be possible to deal with Saudi Arabia in order to be able to travel there. But first, let's fix this problem, 100 people die every day in the epidemic, thousands of people get sick, and that's what you're dealing with instead of focusing on the real task. [[9.00]] If you had followed DK's advice in time and had been free, large-scale testing, the country would be in a much better position today, then it should not have been stopped. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that both you and the government deal with people's real problems, and realize that there is an epidemic. It's very difficult to make up for the waste of time you spent with someone else this summer, but it may not be too late. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-18-12	Thank you, Congressman Olah. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc.
u2020-11-18-13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This morning started so calmly, we also talked about Saudi Arabia, and we also heard geography lessons from Congressman Csaba Gyure on the subject. Then the Gyurcsány Party will pick up where it left off yesterday. Yesterday, the Petőfi Memorial Year, the Cancer Field King's Hill, and they were able to tie me to everything. The fact is, honourable Member, the Parliament is functioning normally. The fact is, honourable Member, last Tuesday, with your votes, we gave the government the authority for 90 days to make decisions on the epidemic quickly and effectively by the government. In the meantime, by pressing that button for the National Assembly, not primarily with the epidemic... Of course, we all deal with the epidemic, but the government has the centre of disease control, based on the proposals of the operational tribe, the government makes the necessary decisions. There's no need for the mood you've created here, no need for the death campaign you've been making. Rather, Congressman, in your district, your fellow party has stolen electricity in these times, why doesn't it concern you? In the middle of the epidemic, when people are hospitalized, you're stealing electricity and protecting cocaine representatives and entering into contracts with criminals, Csaba Czeglédy. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh intervenes.]] That's what you're talking about, honourable Member. And I refuse it [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] If you don't want to work here in Parliament on these billings, it's okay, we'll accept it, but the Parliament is in a proper seating order, and I think there will still be bill proposals today where we'll have great debates with each other because we see the world differently. I think that, in this way, to deviate from the subject, and thus to list shameful lies here in Parliament, to give misleading information about the control of the epidemic, because you also claimed that eight out of ten tests should be paid, your party president's wife! And besides, if it's so important for you to protect yourself from the epidemic, then don't spread false news, don't get involved with the chamomile guys. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And speaking of work, Your Honour, your party president hasn't set foot in his workplace in weeks. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-18-14	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I'll give the floor to Congressman Lajos Oláh for two minutes.
u2020-11-18-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. That is the difference between us, my honourable fellow Member: you say that it is not the disease that should be dealt with first. Man, people are gonna die, you gotta see it. Well, what's to deal with if it's not the plague? How can you say that in the Hungarian Parliament when a hundred people die every day, that this is not the primary task of Parliament? Shame on you, Congressman. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I didn't say that! Without sound:]] That's what he said, literally!
u2020-11-18-16	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Fenyvesi for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2020-11-18-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I also thought that people came to Parliament to work. Honourable Congressman, You take your salary, the same way that kindergarten workers take their salaries, the same way that daycare workers take their salaries, the hospital workers take their salaries, and the factory workers take their salaries. They're going in there to work. And you are asking the Hungarian Parliament to do what it is supposed to do and its duty. Our job is to work here in Parliament, if necessary, in the case of any law that the government feels is important. This Parliament has vowed that it will work and that the work will not stop. Please, Congressman, if you're gonna come in here to work in Parliament and come in here to pick up your paycheck, you're gonna have to come in here to work. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-18-18	Thank you very much, Congressman Zoltán Fenyvesi. Dear Parliament, We now have further speeches from our representatives. I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no such signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur now if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Laszlo Mosóczi: No, thank you very much.]] Secretary of State Mosóczi says no. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the proposal to repeal Decree-Law No 19 of 1979 on the publication of the European Agreement on the International Road Transport of Dangerous Goods, pending its closure. Government referral T/13645. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, I give the floor to Mr László Mosóczi, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-11-18-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Please allow me to present to you the bill repealing Decree-Law No 19 of 1979 on the publication of the European Agreement on the international carriage of dangerous goods by road. The special area of transport is the transport of dangerous goods and dangerous goods. Products shall be considered dangerous substances or articles which carry fire and explosion, adverse health effects or environmental properties during their transport. As described in the various regulations, these goods are classified in one of the so-called UN numbers or sections of the United Nations Model Code. Their transport is subject to a special licence, and their transport requires special equipment and knowledge. The road transport of these goods is regulated by the Agreement in question, which was established in 1957 on the initiative of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe and published by Hungary following its accession by Decree-Law No 19 of 1979 on the publication of the European Agreement on the international carriage of dangerous goods by road. The point of the amendment adopted in Geneva on 23 May 2019 is that the European flag has been removed from the title of the Agreement. This change facilitates the accession of States not members of the UN Economic Commission for Europe, which is also desirable for international transport security and is in line with the UN's 2030 Sustainable Development Goals. With the accession of the new Member States, the agreement may eventually become a global regulation. Dear House, Prior to the amendment of the Agreement, the title of the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road was published in 1276/2019 on the authorisation to finalise the text of the amendment to the Agreement of the Parties to the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, which took place in Geneva on 13 May 2019. Government Resolution No 1. Point 4 of the Government Decision provides for the repeal of the Decree-Law and the publication of the amended agreement at the level of the Government Decree-Law in a final uniform structure. The Legislative Decree will be repealed by the adoption of this draft law. The Legislative Decree expires on 1 January 2021 and, at the same time, the European Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road, commonly known as the Protocol amending the ADR, and the Government Regulation on the publication in a uniform structure of the Agreement on the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road, concluded on 30 September 1957, will enter into force. Dear Parliament, With the adoption of the bill before you, the Legislative Decree will be repealed. I ask this House to support the bill. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-18-20	Thank you, Secretary of State Mosóczi. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group. [[9.10]]
u2020-11-18-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The proposal before us is about extending a European Convention, giving a wider international space for the safe transport of dangerous goods to UN Member States which are not Europeans. The change seems to be very insignificant, since the original title of the agreement leaves the word "European" out of it, yet it creates the possibility of a safer world. In 1957, the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe initiated the establishment of a regulation, a document setting out a safe framework for the transport of dangerous goods, and this Agreement was amended on 13 May 2019 at the Conference of the Parties to the Agreement. The Amending Protocol was adopted there, and since no Party raised a written objection to the Secretary-General of the United Nations within six months thereafter, it will enter into force from 1 January 2021 and its uniform structure will be declared by a Government Decree. I think that the UN specialized bodies are doing their job very well. We can also mention the FAO, which is working to alleviate the world's food problems and has saved a lot of people and crowds from malnutrition and the resulting health consequences and risks. So we need to distinguish between the criticism of the operation of the UN, because we have had ideological discussions with the world organisation several times, but there is a need to distinguish between areas of its operation. I think that if this world organisation works according to its original objectives, as set out in the Treaty, then the world can be a better place, which it can help with the goals set out in the proposal before us, because the United Nations is the world's largest organisation, and we appreciate its work and support its objectives as set out in this agreement. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-22	Thank you, Congresswoman Mónika Bartos. I now give the floor to Mr Róbert Dudás, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-11-18-23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State, for the introduction. We are talking about a short analysis and a short reasoned bill, and I do not want you or my colleague Mónika Bartos... Excuse me, I'm gonna take off the mask. You get so used to it, you don't even realize it's possible to take it off at a time like this. So I don't want to repeat you. I also think it is very important, and I think it is very important, that the ideas expressed by the Member lady, that we appreciate and even help the work of an international organisation, and that, although such agreements should be addressed with criticism and criticism in the event that they should be there, and that it is important that the legislator should be better understood, but I think that the legislative proposal that is being put before us now really requires a very rapid change. In fact, he has already requested it, since the six months for the UN Secretary-General as an opportunity have already passed the appeal. However, I would like to mention in any case and present to you the Jobbik's position that transport, whether it is the transport of dangerous goods or any other means of transport, roads, environment and even polluting transport, has always stood out with a loud voice in order to reduce the burden, reduce the burden on roads, reduce the burden on the environment and reduce otherwise the burden on the population and society. If I may, I would briefly mention this, although it is not about the transport of dangerous goods, but at the same time there is a parallel between them: in recent years, and we can say that over the last decade, but I would rather say that in recent decades, I would not narrow it down to government or governments, a number of road renovations have started, which is very important in order, for example, to relieve the burden on small settlements and to bring small settlements into economic circulation. Because in a number of areas they are struggling with the problem that, although they want jobs, the right roads and the right roads and the lack of a proper railway network, it is impossible to do so, as a large entrepreneur, a large enterprise, a company with tens or hundreds of people does not go into the area until the proper infrastructure is built. A number of steps have been taken on this issue in recent years, decades, and we all know that many steps remain ahead of you, and this is in the interests of all of us and Hungary. At the same time, however, in an investment of this kind, let us not forget what environmental damage we are causing, and this may be the least of the tests. And I will now give you a concrete example, and I would like to illustrate, through this particular example, the problem that we have to face in other areas of the country. It is a four-track road, and I think of the construction of highway 21 between Hatvan and Salgótarján, which the region has been waiting for since the late 1970s, and it is a necessary and absolutely important road network, and they have carried all the construction materials through small settlements, with heavy vehicles, which have destroyed the roads on which they took them through small settlements, because those roads 40-50-60 years ago, whenever they were built, were not designed for this. In settlements where these heavy goods vehicles have passed, the risk of accidents has been increased, pollution has been increased, health burden has been increased, as Minister of State has said, one of the most important concerns is the protection of health as well as the regulation of such dangerous goods transports. There is one way and opportunity to improve this, and that is to exploit our rail networks, to take large-scale shipments to the railway. I have spoken on several occasions here and in other forums in order to take such shipments to the railway. We can also take significant steps to prevent pollution, from the point of view of health conservation and accident protection, so we can make these roads more accident-free and less dangerous. Moreover, these roads will not be ruined, which will then cost the government one, ten, or even hundreds of billions in order to repair these roads. The answer is usually that most of our railway lines and most of them are not sufficiently heavy to carry on these heavy shipments. Indeed, there should be a number of renewals of these railway lines. There's got to be a source. If I can only mention one source to you, I would say that the thousand billion-dollar Budapest-Belgrád railway could flourish and transform many of Hungary's railway lines, otherwise making transport easier, with health protection in mind, and environmental protection in mind. That is all I wanted to say briefly for this bill, and I also took a little detour on this subject. It is natural for Jobbik to support this bill and any bill, whether it be transport or anything else, to serve environmental protection, health protection, accident-free and country-wide progress. Thank you so much for listening. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-11-18-24	Thank you very much, Congressman Róbert Dudás. I now give the floor to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-11-18-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The people in front of me made the point. It is important to mention two dates in relation to the bill, 1957 and 2019, since the European Agreement on the international transport of dangerous goods by road was concluded in 1957, and 2019, when, with the support of the majority of Member States, the Working Party of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe convened the Conference of the Parties to the Agreement, at which the Protocol amending the Agreement was adopted. As my colleague Mónika Bartos said, the essence of this decision is that the title of the agreement will be removed from the title of the European flag, which will further facilitate the accession of the Member States, which is also desirable for the security of international transport. I'm sorry, I left the mask on too. [[He's taking off his mask.]] [[9.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, According to the Government's decision, a decree of the Government announces an agreement on the international transport of dangerous goods by road in a uniform structure, while at the same time the Parliament repeals the decree of law declaring the earlier version of the agreement. KDNP supports the bill. Please support him. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-26	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász. I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-11-18-27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, There is a great urge to try to draw parallels to the bill on various matters, but all I would like to say is that happiness is always when we transcend the past, and we can cross it, and we can throw such an old law into obscurity. So for our part, we will not resist and support this excellent bill. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-18-28	Thank you very much, Congressman Gyula Molnár. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Oláh, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-11-18-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, There are really important issues that you bring here, but there's nothing more important than dealing with the real problems of the epidemic. It is unacceptable for us to think that Parliament should not deal primarily with the epidemic. There is no such thing as a Member in this House who can leave his mouth in such a sentence that Parliament does not have to deal primarily with the epidemic, this House, because it is a spitting out of the eyes of people who are now lying in hospital for health workers and municipal employees who are struggling with this epidemic every day. Ladies and gentlemen, It is important that we deal with this, but first we should do the real work on the epidemic. We can even think of local governments, and thousands of people in local governments are still dealing with trying in some way to help fight the virus. What are you guys doing compared to that? They're taking money away from the local government. What do you think of the municipalities where you were elected, honourable fellow Members? He's an individual representative now. How do they look into their eyes? What are you gonna tell them? Why did they take the money? Your prime minister always talks about looking at Austria, looking at Germany, but buy a magnifying glass if you don't see that in these countries the municipalities are being supported during an epidemic with extra money, not taking away, as you do. For it is the municipalities who meet these people first, who must be helped, whom you leave on the side of the road, for example, because they have lost their jobs. You are introducing free parking in relation to local governments. Normal? They're taking money away from the local authorities again, making parking for the locals impossible, and your epidemiologist said that in case of bad air, the spread of the virus is even worse. If you're serious about fighting the virus, don't fight the virus with free parking, but, let's say, pay those medical staff you transferred today, but they didn't give you the money. When you go back to your place, you'll get... Ladies and gentlemen, This is the primary task, however important it is, the subject that the Secretary of State has set up. But in order for the municipalities to be able to help properly, for example, it would not be a problem if government agencies did not keep secrets. This could be arranged in a minute so the government office doesn't keep secrets. Bring into Parliament the proposal not to do such a thing, that it does not give information to the municipality about, say, how many people are quarantined in the municipality, how many died and could still be classified. I myself asked the government office a written question because I saw that a Fidesz representative had been informed. They didn't give us any. That is against the law, fellow Members. What is important is that, in addition to dealing with such matters, which are now on the agenda, let us make sure that you do not violate the law by the government offices, give information to the local authorities, and not only give information to Fidesz representatives, give information to all the Members of Parliament. Thank you for the opportunity, Mr. President.
u2020-11-18-30	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Oláh. I give the floor to Mr Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group. Mr. Team Leader!
u2020-11-18-31	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, There have already been some pre-controversial debates yesterday on what Parliament has to put on the agenda and what should not be put on the agenda. I fully agree with those comments and I think there is absolutely no debate here, let us say between the factions, that the most important task now is to protect human life and the economy. So obviously, the most important thing is to try to protect everyone's health and to reduce the damage in parallel with the extremely deep economic crisis, and to take steps to think about the direction of reconstruction. By the way, I absolutely agree with my fellow opposition Members that the government is late, not prepared for the second wave, and is now delaying with very important measures, and we do not see any evidence that it has considered the effects of this epidemic and how reconstruction should be carried out. At the same time, I think and agree that Parliament should work and that there are fundamental issues that need to be discussed. There were such questions yesterday, and there may be questions that relate to certain symbolic issues that are important in the life of the nation. I don't want to go into this right now, today, I think we're going to have a very long debate about legislative proposals that have absolutely no business before the Parliament, such as the amendment of the electoral law or the amendment of the Fundamental Law. But I think it's an important case. Obviously, the preparation for this has not started in the last week or two. In particular, on this proposal, my fellow Members, Mr Secretary of State, have also said what is behind this, and we can read it in the proposal. It is obvious that this is an amendment that we will support, so this is not the subject of political debate. In fact, I would like to use this situation to a number of important issues, which, on the other hand, are current, and I am taking advantage of the fact that Mr Secretary of State is here. And yes, there are links to the epidemiological situation, because there are decisions that may have been made or delayed in the wrong direction. My question to Mr Secretary of State is how you see that not so long ago the government decided within the extraordinary legal order that it was necessary to increase the frequency of flights in local community transport, and this was a perfectly logical decision, but at the same time earlier there was a decision before Parliament this year that the state had practically abandoned the municipalities in the care of community transport. Did the government assess this situation and prepare legislation at government level because it is essentially related to defence, or at Parliament level, to provide resources for community transport congestion to municipalities? Similarly, I would not want to reopen this debate on such a bill now, but we have already discussed in several circles that this year, in the case of 34 railway sidelines, you have almost nullified personal transport and, as far as the interim epidemiological agenda is concerned, I understand that ten cases of political protest have been withdrawn. Has the government revalued, in the last six months or short half a year, the fact that in such an epidemiological situation we are seeing now that this epidemic is actually producing a brutal spread is unfortunately the safer train transport, rail transport or train replacement bus? Obviously, it is quite clear and it can be said that there is a professional consensus that for a railway wagon with significantly higher capacity, it is much safer for public transport and passenger transport than for a bus with a significantly smaller train replacement running in parallel. When can we expect the government to withdraw this extremely flawed decision and concentrate railway services for the safety of the people? And then I have one more question, which obviously takes me very, very far and far away, but is linked to the transport of dangerous goods, and I feel that it is an unprepared, uncovered, poorly thought out and discussed problem area from the legislative perspective, and this is the transport of radioactive waste and of spent fuel in this way. When will this review be on the agenda, and how actively does the government deal with this problem system? Taking into account the fact that the existing Paks blocks have been extended, it is imminent as a thought experiment as far as we can see, because we are not really getting information about the government's work on a possible further time extension or Paks II. We know that the final disposal of high-activity radioactive waste and spent fuel will be planned in a deep geological storage, and we also know that the international solution to these problems is increasingly emerging, that the European legal system may be able to develop in such a way that European projects, rather than national projects, will have to think about, or will also arise, the recycling and rerocing of these spent fuel, which also poses very serious international transport challenges. Obviously, I do not expect Mr Secretary of State to give a detailed report on this, but if we get information on how much this is in the front of the government, how much he treats this problem at the level of legislation and at the professional level, I think it would be very important. I repeat, this bill will be supported by the LMP faction. Thank you very much. [[9.30]]
u2020-11-18-32	Thank you very much, Mr. László Keresztes. Dear Parliament, Now for the two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP.
u2020-11-18-33	Honourable Congressman, Before you lie any further, let's be clear: everyone's priority is disease control. What I said means that with your votes and DK's votes last week, a week ago, we decided here in Parliament that, in order to make a quick and effective decision on the control of the epidemic, based on the proposals of the operational tribe, we would, on the basis of the epidemiological experts, give the government a 90-day decision. The fact that you want the Parliament not to work in the meantime is your problem. I think the Parliament should work, but when it spreads false news and lies, we can't tolerate that. Everyone in the entire Hungarian society is working together to overcome this epidemic, everyone is working hard, while you are attacking the CDC specialists in their personal and faith and in their dignity. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: You, you, you! The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2020-11-18-34	Congressman Olah!
u2020-11-18-35	In their human dignity, they're attacking CDC experts. Let's talk, Congressman, about whether you or Ferenc Gyurcsány ordered the electricity theft. Tell me about that. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh: You, you!]] Honourable Member! Everyone's working on an epidemiology defense while you're blocking it. In his position they keep the Kamuvideos Korózs, attack the CDC experts, create false news and keep spreading. That is what you are talking about, honourable Member, because it is outrageous that you always want to withdraw from the common defence and national unity. This attitude of the Democratic Coalition is not new, it is constantly being done, while, by the way, their fake news, their Kamuvideos, and their fake stats are taking down health workers: paramedics, doctors, nurses, law enforcement workers, workers in social homes. I ask you to finish the mood, to stand next to those who work in the front line, to thank them for their work, because we have never heard of you, and here it is always said in Parliament that many factions should thank those involved in the defense for their work, and rather do so, and why you or Ferenc Gyurcsány ordered the electricity theft in your district. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-18-36	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc KDNP. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Fenyvesi for two minutes, Fidesz.
u2020-11-18-37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, Mr Oláh's speech also motivates me to respond again. You said everyone in this country has to deal with defense. Yeah, everyone does that, everyone does their job where they are, and they do their job where they are. Protection is the primary task and maintenance of the country's functionality. And then, when you ask everyone to act in defence, please coordinate with DK's MEP Ferenc Gyurcsány, Klára Dobrev and all the MEPs to do their job. [[Dr. Lajos Oláh keeps interrupting.]]
u2020-11-18-38	Wait a minute. [[The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Lajos Oláh keeps talking.]] Lajos Oláh, give us a moment. Congressman, give me a moment. I would like to call on Mr Lajos Oláh to stop yelling at me, not to have to warn me again, because there is already a consequence. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-18-39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I understand that it is difficult for some left-wing Members to hear this, to understand that I would be in trouble, too, if I were you, so I would ask you to coordinate with your MEPs, so that your primary task for the European Union is to stand up to the defence and the epidemiological situation, not against Hungary, not against the Hungarians, and not to discredit Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-18-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lajos Oláh, DK.
u2020-11-18-41	I was surprised when Congressman Fenyvesi played Ferenc Gyurcsány. But why are we surprised at that when the Comandorians' Party is in order to have sex? Where you don't want to ratify the Istanbul convention? Can't you remember a name at your age? Not Mrs. Viktor Orbán! His name is Klara Dobrev, Congressman. [[In a raised voice:]] Don't try to humiliate people, humiliate women in this House. Aren't you ashamed? ! Well, what you're doing about women is outrageous, and what your partners are doing. Just accept them as equals. Thank you very much. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Mining union, miners!]]
u2020-11-18-42	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Oláh. The next two-minute speaker is Lóránt Keresztes, Mr LMP Group Leader.
u2020-11-18-43	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, It's gonna be a long day, and I think tomorrow's gonna be a long day, and we're gonna have a lot of debates this week. It's still relatively early, it's after 9:30. I ask my fellow Members, really, regardless of political sides, to remain calm, and when we talk about the difficult situation we are in, and I thank the health workers and everyone who is working to preserve the health and safety of the people, then let us also think of the dignity of the Parliament. And we must pay attention to the feelings of the people who follow the work of the Parliament. That is what I call opposition, but I also ask my fellow members of the Government to do. Congressman Nacsa, I agree that Parliament should work. However, the operation of Parliament does not mean that when we ask a question about the defense, a question about the epidemic, and in a five-minute answer, the opposition is finely abused for only four minutes, and they talk for four minutes about what happened in the country before 2010. This, too, I think, is unworthy, and it doesn't help the defense. I think that it is the proper operation of Parliament in such a difficult situation, in such a crisis, that if we try to put aside a little political mud throwing, focus on defense, concrete problems, and when it expires, we hope that we can deal with this situation as soon as possible, then we will return to political battles. I would ask you to do this, and I would ask you to try to impress me as much as you can, for example, here on Mondays or Tuesdays, to try to answer the questions we ask about the spread of the epidemic. And unfortunately, we have also seen that on October 2nd, I repeatedly referred to it on television by one of your influential State Secretarys accused one of the experts you asked for more restrictive measures. I think that these are wrong decisions, wrong steps, and wrong steps on the part of the opposition are also when they publish information that is not real. But I think that both sides have a responsibility in this, but these debates should be fought later, and everyone should exercise self-criticism, and we will do our parliamentary work here with dignity in this difficult time. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-18-44	Thank you, Mr. Crusade Leader. The two-minute round is closed, and we now have further speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Lajos Oláh, DK.
u2020-11-18-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Congressman Nacsa has a short memory, as he forgets what he said a few minutes before: he said that Parliament should not deal primarily with the epidemic. That's the difference between us: we say yes, you say no. After that, you denied your own words, there's nothing we can do about it. I suggest you consider it better some other time, I think. But you know what? This is your chance. This law is important, but let's do it today to pay the wages of health workers who are ordered not to be paid and then pay when they go back to the hospital where they originally worked. How can you do such a thing, Your Honour? ? It would be more useful, much more useful if you were to take a look at the Prime Minister and say: "Dear Viktor Orbán, we can't afford to pay people who work every day and say that we will someday." Do you get your paycheck on time? You'll get it. And the medical staff say they'll get it sometime. But you know what? You could do one more thing. Go to the Minister of Administration and ask them to give information to the local authorities, so they know how many Covid patients are there. You could do a lot more than just sit here and deny yourself. That's what I'm suggesting to you, Your Honour. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-18-46	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Oláh. I'll give the floor to Congresswoman Mónika Bartos for two minutes.
u2020-11-18-47	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we are living in days, months that none of us had, because about a hundred years ago, about a hundred years ago, there was a pandemic that we now have to live on. It is natural for everyone to have tension because of this, both in humans and in us, but I think that we will not be able to experience these difficult moments well if we are also inciting tensions that do not necessarily belong here. And I think that we and the government have a number of tasks at the same time, and these tasks are not worth putting against each other, because it is true that people want to stay healthy or that if they are sick, they will be cured. So their health, their family safety is very important to them, but it is also very important that they have a job, a existence. And it can also be said that this epidemic does not spare any of us, so we are all at risk, but the elderly are the most vulnerable. [[9.40]] So the most important thing for them is to maintain their health, and for the younger ones to want to work and maintain their existence. So we must meet these goals at the same time, and, for example, at the previous item on the agenda, we discussed opportunities, such as cooperation with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, where Hungarian entrepreneurs can be provided with jobs, by concluding cooperation. So I would like to draw attention to this, that we need to do more aspects and more tasks at the same time, and that it would not be good to advertise competition and generate tension between them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-48	Thank you very much, Mónika Bartos. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask if someone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an applicant in this Chamber, so no one has applied for any further speeches, and the general debate is closed. If necessary, I will give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Mosóczi State Secretary. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-11-18-49	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Thank you very much for your support for the European agreement on the international transport of dangerous goods by road. With a few thoughts, I would like to reflect on the comments made by honourable Members and gentlemen. Mr Róbert Dudás mentioned the domestic road network and the rail network. Since 2010, nearly 6,000 kilometres have been renewed on the 32,000 km long Hungarian road network worth HUF 755 billion. These are road renovations, and I am pleased to inform the Honourable Parliament that the government has recently decided to support this road renovation programme. More than 530 kilometers of roads will be renewed in the coming years for 157 billion forints, and there are also important roads that are not only important for local people, but also for national traffic, such as the Szentendre section of Route 11, the Pest county section of Route 31, the road 24 between Gyöngyös and Mátraháza, or the complete renewal of our 52, one of the busiest main roads almost throughout the entire length of Kecskemét and Solt. The road programme, which involves the construction of new roads, is taking place in order to meet the threefold objective set by the government, namely: to connect cities with county rights to the motorways, to reach them, obviously, if there is reception skills in neighbouring countries or a motorway from any settlement in the country is available in 30 minutes. I am pleased and proud to inform you that during the epidemic, constructions have been carried out continuously, while strict compliance with the epidemiological rules, in order to ensure that the economy works. The M4, M44, M30, M80, M85 motorway is still under construction, and the government has decided that the government has recently issued a government decision to continue the road program. These are important investments, such as the extension of the Danube bridge between Paks and Kalocsa, the four-tracking of the M76, 37 track, the 26th, Sajószentpéter-Berente bypass road, the completion of the motorway 67 to Kaposvár, and the renovation of one of our most dangerous nodes in Székesfehérvár, as well as the preparation of several road renovations and bypasses. These are also important if I only think about the subject of the presentation, dangerous goods, because settlements are exempted not only from the traffic of these dangerous vehicles, but also from the traffic of other transit vehicles, so the quality of life of residents and residents there will improve significantly, not only from an accident protection point of view, but also from an environmental point of view. In rail transport, in order to maintain a good share of rail transport in Europe, the government decided on so-called single car support this summer. This means the transport of goods by rail, not by direction trains, but by one to two or three freight wagons, which correspond to the needs of the municipalities, and then train trains are assembled from them. This is an expensive and loss-making process for freight forwarders, so Hungary is one of the countries in which this traffic is supported in order to maintain it and not to shift to roads such as the transportation of iron ore or coal or the transport of logs or the transportation of scrap iron. The modernisation of our railway lines is continuing and, in the next EU programming cycle, the emphasis will be placed on rail transport in order to meet the requirements of both passenger and freight transport. We must note that the two trains use the same rail network and infrastructure, so we must optimise it so that the needs of both parties, i.e. passenger transport and freight, can be met. As regards the railway sidelines, where we reduced the number of trains travelling during the epidemic, there was always the possibility of parallel bus transport, which was used by 90 percent of the people living there, and those trains were replaced by buses where the average number of passengers did not reach five. I think those five passengers can travel by bus in such a way that they can safely reach their destination while complying with the epidemiological regulations. The task was also given to local transport companies, but we also did everything in national transport, in the interurban network, which was possible from an infrastructure and vehicle point of view, in order for passengers to travel more comfortably and to maintain their health and safety. Thank you very much for the floor. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-50	Thank you very much, Secretary of State László Mosóczi. Dear Parliament, We have until 16 o'clock on Thursday to present the amendments. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws relating to the operation of unmanned aircraft until closure. The government referral is T/13666. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Secretary of State László Mosóczi, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, author of the item on the agenda. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-11-18-51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Sorry, I'd like to take off my mask, too, 'cause it's gonna be a little longer exposure. [[He's taking off his mask.]] Due to the proliferation and technological development of unmanned aircraft, more and more industries recognise the enormous potential of drone use. In addition to the benefits and opportunities, risks and risks must also be taken into account, making the creation of an appropriate regulatory environment permanent. EU standards covering the entire spectrum of unmanned aircraft entered into force on 1 July 2019. The Implementing Regulation laying down rules for the implementation of drones flights should have been applied from July this year, but this deadline was amended to 31 December 2020 due to the pandemic caused by the coronal virus. The framework established by the EU regulations has justified the drafting of new Member States' provisions, the adaptation of the existing rules. Dear House, The bill before you contains three amendments to the law. The establishment of domestic legislation is justified on the one hand by the exhaustion of the legislative powers of the Member States as defined by the EU Regulation, compliance with the obligations of harmonisation and, on the other hand, by the fact that the use of unmanned State aircraft, i.e. drones used for defence, customs and law enforcement purposes, does not fall within the scope of the EU legislation, and it is entirely up to the Member States to establish these rules. The entry into force of the rules on unmanned State aircraft requires the establishment of a harmonised airspace usage regime for civil and public drones. [[9.50]] It is in the primary interest of the State that unmanned aircraft, as new technical means, should support and facilitate the performance of the public tasks of each organisation. As a result, it is for the legislator to establish a regulatory environment based on the size and performance of these aircraft and the purpose of their use to adapt to safety requirements. The proposed proposal covers the establishment of rules for the operation and use of unmanned aircraft, new facts for the protection of privacy and the establishment of a legal basis for combating unlawful use. Dear Parliament, Unmanned aircraft can currently only operate in a case-by-case airspace in the Hungarian airspace. The administrative procedure for the designation of a case-by-case airspace subject to a technical procedure referred to in the competence of the military aviation authority shall take 30 days. The draft law allows for more flexible use of airspace than at present, paying particular attention to the protection of privacy. According to the proposed specifications, we can talk about the legitimate use of drones when the registration obligations are fulfilled, the remote pilot carries out the necessary training courses, registers in the mobile app to assist the use of the drone, using the application to operate his drone taking into account the airspace usage rules. The draft will, as a general rule, allow drone use outside of a populated area without requiring a case-by-case airspace and will continue to require a request for a case-by-case airspace designation for droneing over a populated area. Dear House, EU legislation provides that Member States are obliged to establish and maintain registration systems. The registration obligation shall cover specific unmanned aircraft systems and their operators. The basis for the registration obligation is due to the safety risk of operation. Unmanned aircraft systems which may pose a risk to safety, security, privacy, personal data or the protection of the environment shall be registered. It is also a Member State's obligation to ensure that registration systems are digital and interoperable. Mutual access and exchange of information between registration systems should be ensured. The EU Implementing Regulation narrows the scope of Member States' legislative powers. It provides national decision-making powers for the training, testing and registration of drones-leading so-called remote pilots, for the registration of unmanned aircraft, and for the designation of geographical areas above which Member States' legislators may prohibit, restrict, impose conditions on the presence of drones for the reasons set out in the Regulation. In addition, it leaves the national competence for the Member State to decide which body to address the official powers set out in the Regulation within the country. The proposal before you gives the aviation authority the power to register drones and their operators and to exercise the authorisation powers imposed by EU legislation. At the same time, the military aviation authority is responsible for registering and supervising the operation of unmanned State aircraft. The draft defines the concept of unmanned toy aircraft. A toy without a pilot shall be considered an aircraft if it is a toy within the meaning of Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the safety of toys, does not reach a maximum take-off mass of 120 grams, is not equipped with a recording device and is not capable of moving more than 100 metres from a remote pilot. Unmanned toy aircraft shall not be registered. Dear Parliament, It is well known to everyone that the proliferation of drones also raises serious issues concerning the protection of privacy. According to the introductory part of the EU Implementing Regulation, Member States may impose certain conditions on the operation of unmanned aircraft in order to respect privacy and protect personal data. It also states that Member States may impose a ban on the designation of geographical zones for unmanned aircraft operations for the purpose of protecting privacy. The provisions of the national rules concerning the protection of privacy are in accordance with the implementing regulation. In addition to ensuring the protection of privacy by the laws of other jurisdictions, civil code, criminal code and, in part, EU rules, it is possible to ensure an adequate level of protection by establishing additional guarantee rules. Under the prepared regulations, the use of unmanned civil aircraft over a populated area will only be lawful in designated ad hoc airspace. If, in the context of legitimate drone use, there may be a breach of personal rights or other unlawful conduct, in addition to the sanctions in force under the legislation, the civil consequences may apply to the driver, since the movement of the drone can be easily tracked, and the driver of the aircraft can be identified by the authority. However, in the absence of a case-by-case airspace designation or other authorisation, the use of a drone is considered to be unauthorized, which in itself could endanger privacy and should therefore be sanctioned. In view of this, it is proposed that a traffic offence, i.e. an unauthorised activity with an unmanned aircraft, be carried out by an unmanned aircraft who has used an unmanned aircraft over a residential area without the necessary permits. If, in the course of unauthorised use, the perpetrator also takes unauthorized voice or image recordings of other apartments, other premises or related enclosures, this excess behaviour constitutes a breach of personal rights which gives rise to a breach of privacy. The amendment provides for a criminal offence to be imposed by a person who, using unauthorized use of an unmanned aircraft, monitors another's home, other premises or any related enclosed space. It is a classified case if the audio or image taken during the surveillance is made available to the general public. If unauthorised or non-target processing of personal data causes significant harm to the interests of the data, it shall continue to be punishable as a misuse of personal data. In view of the sensitivity of personal rights, it is appropriate to leave the victim's right of self-determination in the context of his wish to be held accountable to the perpetrator, which is why the above offences are intended to be subject to a private initiative. Dear Parliament, Prior to the lawful use of unmanned civil aircraft over a populated area, it will be necessary to submit an application for the allocation of a case-by-case airspace. During its official procedure, the military aviation authority shall also obtain the competent opinion of the aviation authority and send the designation decision to the aeronautical information service for publication. Under the current rules, the application must be submitted 30 days before the intended use of the drone. Unlike the 30-day administration period, the draft shall establish a special procedure for the designation of a case-by-case airspace in a short procedural period. The short-term exceptional procedure will be possible in the case of the assignment of a case-by-case airspace for an operation over an area occupied by civil aircraft without a pilot in order to carry out the tasks of public bodies. The exceptional procedure shall be carried out by decision-making without the obligation to draw up a safety report and the acquisition of a professional opinion if the conditions laid down are met together. In accordance with the rules on the activation and use of a case-by-case airspace, ad hoc airspace is considered a restricted area for other aircraft; it is only allowed to fly into a case-by-case airspace in legally defined cases, such as in the interest of defence or for research purposes. Having prepared that the operation of unmanned civil aircraft in a case-by-case airspace may constitute an obstacle to activities carried out in the public interest, the draft sets out new prioritisation rules for the procedure for the designation of a case-by-case airspace. The proposed amendment before you defines the concept of an unmanned aircraft operation for the purpose of carrying out the tasks of the public body and the concept of operation of an economic and recreational unmanned aircraft. The decision of the military aviation authority to designate a case-by-case airspace may be amended or revoked, irrespective of the rights acquired and exercised in good faith. A government regulation will specify that if the airspace indicated in the request for the allocation of a given airspace for the purpose of carrying out the tasks of the public body has a clearance with a designated airspace for the use of a drone for economic or leisure purposes, the military aviation authority shall amend or withdraw its decision already issued. [[10.00]] Where the designation of airspace concerns the use of a drone for economic purposes and covers a case-by-case airspace already designated for recreational use, the military aviation authority shall amend or withdraw its decision to designate an ad hoc airspace for recreational use, irrespective of the rights acquired and exercised in good faith. Dear House, The HungaroControl Hungarian Air Traffic Management Service will be responsible for the operation of the website and mobile application containing current airspace information and other restrictions to support the use of unmanned aircraft. According to the draft prepared, the use of unmanned aircraft is subject to the use of websites and mobile applications containing current airspace information and other restrictions. The remote pilot may, after registration in the Mydronspace application, be informed of the limitations through the application, indicate his/her claim to use an airspace, indicate the use of the airspace, if the use of the unmanned aircraft is permitted in the airspace and at the time he/she initiates it. Through the mobile application, it will be possible for law enforcement, law enforcement, defence, disaster prevention, crime prevention and personal protection bodies with the right to designate restricted areas for drone use. Mobile application and web interface display prohibited areas to ensure that remote pilots and pilots of unmanned state aircraft receive continuous and up-to-date information on areas where they are legally allowed to operate. An unmanned toy aircraft does not need to be registered by the authorities and does not need to be registered in the mobile application during their use. Dear Parliament, The need to regulate unmanned civil and public aircraft is a fundamental social interest and a safety requirement. It is appropriate to create immediate applicability for public users, to carry out border control tasks related to the migration crisis with unmanned public aircraft, and to establish a regulatory framework. In view of all this, I ask the Honourable Parliament to support the proposal to amend certain laws relating to the operation of unmanned aircraft. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-52	Thank you very much, Secretary of State László Mosóczi. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. First, I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-18-53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The new regulation before us meets an EU requirement, but it can be said and seen from the Secretary of State's exposé that we are talking about a very broad proposal, which, I think, can be exemplary for other countries as well. The rapid and widespread deployment of unmanned aircraft raises a number of questions, and if we do not go into them in detail, they are, in general, both an opportunity and a threat. It is very important that we can make use of the opportunities, but at the same time the dangers must be avoided and we must be able to respond to the dangers that arise. Let's look at the possibilities first. Hungary's forthcoming aviation strategy is a key element in exploiting technological potential, innovation, aeronautic research, development and assistance. We plan that at least at regional level Hungary will have a central, leading area and will play a prominent role in the dissemination of drone technology and related innovation. This will also be facilitated by further improvements and production capacities. To this end, it is very important to develop a very modern supportive legislative environment. The development of the unmanned aircraft-based industry will rise to new heights in the coming decades. If we look at the economic impact analysis of the whole value chain, the annual potential of the European market will be more than EUR 10 billion by 2035 and EUR 15 billion by 2050. This is expected to create new jobs and its direct job creation impact in the trade and public sectors can be at the rate of 100,000 in Europe. The expansion of technology has a number of additional advantages, including software development, more efficient use of agricultural areas, improved efficiency of research and rescue. Taking into account macroeconomic multipliers in neighbouring industries such as information technology, electronics and the automotive industry, the combined direct and indirect market potential could amount to up to EUR 25-45 billion and create between 250 and 400 thousand potential new jobs. With the introduction of drone-based services, the innovation level, cost-effectiveness, service quality, added value, value-creating and economic recovery capacity of companies can also be increased. At the same time, it is important that, in addition to opportunities, we address the dangers, as I said, we should be able to respond to them. The interesting thing about the proposal before us is that it serves on the one hand to harmonise legislation with EU regulations, on the other hand, it refers a number of areas to the competence of the Member States and refers to the location of the development in the Member States. The area to be regulated in this Member State's competence is the registration of these aircraft. It is true that the relevant EU regulation provides a framework for operational rules, but details must be drawn up by the Member States. In the same Member States, the training and testing of remote pilots is carried out, and, as the Secretary of State has said, the area of competence of the Member States is also to identify areas, geographical areas where the presence of drones is either prohibited or subject to any conditions, and the Minister for Transport, the Minister for Defence and, in certain cases, the Minister for the Environment agree. Different facilities and activities in airspace affected areas can have an impact on this and raise many security, defence and law enforcement issues in this area, this regulation and the protection of the right to privacy should also be emphasised. The regulation of airspace use is a very important area. As the Secretary of State said, HungaroControl Zrt. the use of a website and mobile application, providing information or other restrictions to support the use of unmanned aircraft, will be very important and mandatory for everyone, and we will provide HungaroControl Zrt. in legal terms. the processing authorisation for him. If this mobile application cannot be used for any reason, then an unmanned aircraft system operation cannot be carried out, so everyone has to deal with it. New concepts will also be introduced in the proposal. The Secretary of State also mentioned that the concept of unmanned aircraft should be clarified, since it is a device which is considered to be a toy and which does not exceed 120 grams of total weight and take-off mass, which is not equipped with a recording device and which is not capable of moving more than 100 metres away from a remote pilot. It is important to emphasise this because, with regard to these toys, neither the obligation to register nor the use of the website or mobile application nor the designation of a case-by-case airspace above the inhabited area are not mandatory, so they do not have to comply, but if an unmanned aircraft does not qualify as a toy, it can be used in compliance with strict rules. [[10.10]] I've mentioned airspace and aviation safety points. One of these, which should be underlined, is the register, because we need to follow these instruments and know how much use the airspace. In terms of aviation safety, this is a Community interest. Therefore, it is very important to have a statutory authorisation in the area of data processing for the determining authority. As Minister of State has said, Hungarian civil aircraft can take part in air transport only if it has been entered into the aircraft register of Hungary by the aviation authority, which is public and public-credited, in order to facilitate aviation safety and to ensure the interests of the security of public documents. So we see that there are quite a lot of rules that need to be taken into account if we are to use an unmanned aircraft. But it is also important to assign appropriate sanctions to them. It should be stressed that, in the event of a breach of the rules, the law provides for the imposition of an air traffic penalty. It is also important that, when necessary, unmanned aircraft can be detected in the interest of national security in the interests of public order and public security, so that they can be detained and forced to land. If the remote pilot receives such a call, so he is ordered to land, he must definitely follow it. Mr State Secretary has stressed and I also consider it very important to protect the private sector and that this is definitely regulated within strict limits. The proposal differentiates between legitimate and unauthorised users. If a person is licensed but still violates personal rights, then he will have to face civil-law consequences, since in this case both the drone and its leader can be identified. If, on the other hand, a person uses such a device illegally, he normally commits a traffic violation, but if he commits a personal breach, then the facts of the private home invasion exist. Going on this line, a criminal offence is committed by those who use these devices unauthorizedly and who observe someone else's apartment, locality or related enclosed space. It's a classified case if you're also recording audio and images. I think it is important to emphasise this because, despite the fact that we see the benefits of using drones, for example, just a few, following the movement of illegal migrants, facilitating life-saving work, making protection tasks more effective or the use of agricultural areas as much as possible, a variety of threats to the private sector in people are triggered. It is very good that the proposal before us seeks to protect this widely and to establish a set of rules. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we have a modern, modern regulation that meets the challenges of the age, so I ask you to support it. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-54	Thank you very much, Congresswoman Mónika Bartos. I now give the floor to Mr Róbert Dudás, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group.
u2020-11-18-55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me to respond to some of the things that have been said so far. I agree with you on a number of issues. I agree, for example, that there are huge opportunities in this. There is also a potential for regional central leadership, and that there is a need for supporting legislation for the future of this sector. But it's not a supporting act. This will not become a regional central leadership, but will be lagging behind, and the huge opportunities will also be lost. My fellow Member, Mónika Bartos, said that the protection of privacy and the protection of the private sector is a priority. That's what I think. A piece of legislation must also be drawn up taking account of the position of the profession, and, of course, with regard to all segments of society, it must be arranged in an appropriate manner for everyone, so that we do not make anyone impossible, especially not the profession, and maximum protection of the private sector. From the comments that have been made so far, it has appeared that, when looking at and reading about Budapest, we cannot see a law on how this happens in other areas of the country. I would like to highlight one point from this: the use of mobile applications and the fact that where they do not have adequate reception, the aircraft is not usable. The country is not fully covered by a mobile operator. In many cases, these vehicles are used outside a populated area in places where these services are not provided. I'd like to give you some statistics. I don't even agree that not everyone in 10-80-year-old hobby or sports models has that kind of knowledge, or that not everyone has a mobile phone, a mobile app or a subscription. So there are a number of problems for the sector in particular, this legislation, which comes from only one thing, the lack of professional consultation and professional consultation. All that has been said so far has not been an absolute reflection of the fact that professional organisations have been sought, professional organisations could have expressed their views, and the Ministry has given a concrete position, but listening to the opinions of professional organisations would bring together a law, a bill that, as I have already said, would be appropriate for everyone; it would be appropriate for the profession to be adequate for everyone in terms of privacy and the protection of the private sector. We are not just talking about drones, because there are many sectors of unmanned vehicles. Let's look at the modeling. I do not know if, given the age or school of my fellow Members, I do not know where someone was modeling it in elementary school. There have been, and there are, many modeling classes in primary schools, which, in addition to developing hand skills, play an extremely important role in the development of other skills, and somewhere in this hall, although the modelers may not like it, and I apologize to them for their further development, so that they can later represent modeling or droneing in a different, higher sector. Allow me to make a few specific comments on the proposal before us. Many have already mentioned, and I have not yet mentioned, that it is an EU regulation that will enter into force with effect from 31 December. It is very important that we create national legislation that will give us the opportunity to actually compete in a competition that is starting now. We have a great opportunity ahead of us. It is an extremely new industry. I'm not talking about modeling, because it's a hundred years old, and just looking at RC modeling, it's already 60 years old. I am now saying about droneing that there are opportunities in this industry that are developing worldwide, and many countries are doing everything they can to give this industry all the resources it needs in terms of border protection, waste management and environmental protection. [[10.20]] Many areas can be mentioned, but in terms of hobby, there are also many segments of nature photography and tourism where they have an important role to play. Some national governments give everything to this industry in order not to start competition at a disadvantage. However, this legislation is a disadvantage for the Hungarian unmanned aircraft industry. If I can live with a sports metaphor, it's like a 100-meter run, and we're throwing shoes about 20 meters away, and this race is still starting. I'm asking all of you not to go downhill. As I mentioned, a few specific proposals for the proposal. The proposal ignores EU 2019/947. Point 27 and 28 of the implementing regulation, which states that the models have been operating safely within the framework of association and that in point 28 these aircraft often used by aircraft model operators are simpler than other classes of unmanned aircraft, and therefore the application of disproportionate technical requirements is not justified and is included in the Regulation. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: Paragraph 4, paragraph 50, defines the maximum limit in 120 grams in the concept of toy, which does not correspond to the limit of 250 grams provided for in the EU regulation cited. There is no justification for this tightening up, by the way. Professionally, it is completely unjustified and increases the registration obligation as well as the ad hoc airspace requirement to such an extent as to create unrealistic burdens for authorities as well as for pilots. If this bill is adopted unchanged, I consider that it will otherwise have inaccessible consequences for the future of modeling aircraft, detrimental to innovation in drone technologies and uncompetitive internationalisation of companies and professionals involved in technology, as well as a significant safety risk to aviation. Well, if you think, in addition to my own opinion, I have expressed my own opinion, somewhere in the beginning I mentioned that there was a lack of a national professional consultation with professional organisations. Well, this, which I have just read to you, four modelers and drones are not going to be listed here by name, in a letter from the presidents of four national organisations, sent to Minister Palkovic. I think that the legislator is essentially not a bad one, and I always say it, but unfortunately it is proved that in many cases, in the absence of practical experience, inadequate legislation is proposed, and thus inadequate legislation will be adopted. I think that if the opinions of professional organisations were to be heard, they would be able to draw up appropriate legislation and please do so. I think that professional organisations, the thousands of modeling drone pilots, the pilots, the pilots, and the association should be hobby users, whether they are athletes, whether they are doing their job by the way, they are in the interests of all of us, and beyond that, we are not only in the interest of all of us, but, as I have already said, we are at the beginning of a competition in which we actually have the opportunity to compete, and we must not miss this. I would like to mention some statistics, and I do not want to bore anyone, but I would like to present them to you, but I would like to share some statistics with you about the modelers. The associations have a total of 1476 registered members. However, it is estimated that there are about 3 to 4 thousand hobby models who have not otherwise joined associations, many of them only take out their models once or twice a year. The number of hobby drones is at least 3,000, and most of them are less than a kilogram. The model flying under one kilogram is over 1300 pieces. For example, in England, there are no registration obligations. They're in a number of competitions with their flying models, drones. With these devices, 38 model airports are operated. Of these 27 airports fly almost daily. Every weekend from spring to autumn there are five or six races in different parts of the country, and, as I mentioned above, age ranges from 10 to 80 years, not only hobbies, but also racers. Modelling is a community-forming, leisure activity that is a very instructive, practical school for young people and sustains spiritual freshness for older people. To whom this legislation will be the worst, it can be declared, otherwise I think it affects everyone, but perhaps especially the beginners, with extreme cruelty, the education of the replacement of modelling. Even to pass on someone else's model, you need a private document. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, I think that people who operate unmanned vehicles have a willingness to follow the law. We need to create legislation to support this willingness, to help them, not to force them to carry out their own hobby, whether it be a garden, a football field, an airport, anywhere, but in an illegal framework from here on out. Let's help these organizations, help the modelers, be it a hobbyist, an athlete, anyone, help the drone users, because it's not just in the interest of the parliamentary representatives sitting here. It is up to us what legislation we adopt. I think it is in Hungary's future's interest to create legislation that does not make this sector impossible, but helps and raise it. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-11-18-56	Thank you very much, Congressman Róbert Dudás. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the lead speaker of the Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-11-18-57	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for his exposé. I also appreciate the criticisms of my better fellow Member in some cases. I think, in my opinion, a very narrow layer, which you have just spoken for, who has a drone, but not a mobile phone, I feel like a thin layer, but if it's really a problem, then let's talk about it. [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: That's not what he said! He's talking about space!]] I just felt like that wasn't the focus. [[Róbert Hondas: I was talking about space!]] He said that anyone who doesn't have a cell phone, so he can't download the app, that's what he said, Congressman. [[I was talking about space, Congressman.]] And he's got a drone. We didn't fully understand that, but if you'll clarify, I'll thank you. So without the pilot, aircraft or their common names, drones have become more and more part of our lives in recent years. Today we can no longer find any tourist video that does not contain drone footage of the particular landscape or settlement. Drones are increasingly widespread in video and filmmaking, entertainment and everyday life. Drone traffic continues to increase. The number of drones operated in Hungary was estimated to have been 15-30 thousand units in 2017, then one year later, in 2018, their number exceeded 100,000 units. The economic impact of drones is also extremely spectacular. The world market for rapidly growing drones is worth $22 billion this year, which is estimated to double in five years, which will mean up to $44-45 billion. The Hungarian National Drone Association estimates that today there are some 200-250 companies operating in Hungary, which make a full or partial living from a service provided by a drone. The previous examples show how dynamic the number, traffic, value, and market role of drones have been in a short period of time. As a result, new regulation of the use of drones at EU level has also become necessary. For the EU framework for drone regulation, the EU legislative package, which includes two EU regulations, was set up in 2019/945. and 2019/947 Regulation No. These regulations provide a precise framework for the rules of operations for unmanned aircraft and allow national decision-making powers for the registration of unmanned aircraft. The EU regulations will enter into force on 1 January 2021, for which the legislative proposal before us contains the necessary legislative changes. [[10.30]] A significant part of the bill is to adapt to and comply with EU legislation, as the regulation of the European Union will enter into force in a short period of a month and a half. Drones and drones operations are classified in three categories by the new regulation: open category, special category and category of licence required. The open category will include the vast majority of hobby drones owned by individuals, for which no specific airspace permit is required to fly the drone. This category includes drones of up to 25 kilograms, which shall not exceed 120 metres of flight altitude and the drone shall be kept within visual range by its controller. More serious drones in the open category, designed for real use, are also considered extremely dangerous, so they are not classified in the toy category. Thus, larger, faster drones in the open category should already be registered with the civil aviation authority, they will receive a unique license plate number, identification, and their keepers of at least 16 years of age will have to take an online test after an online course. In the case of drones weighing at least 900 grams, the online theoretical test is no longer sufficient, and you will also have to account for practical knowledge to the drone's controller. The weight of the special category drones, together with any shipments, may exceed 25 kilograms and are predominantly used for professional activity, is 99 percent. A drone will belong to a category subject to authorisation if it is intended to be operated over persons or masses, transport dangerous substances, or possibly persons, or operate at altitudes higher than 120 metres, or even close to the flight altitudes used by aircraft. In these cases, a permit for use of airspace will always be required. The EU regulatory package refers to the designation by Member States of geographical areas above which drones may be prohibited or restricted, or Member States may define areas where drones are subject to different conditions. Detailed designation will take place in a ministerial decree. HungaroControl Zrt was also defined in the bill. the basic rules for the use of a website and mobile application containing current airspace information and existing restrictions supporting the use of unmanned aircraft. With a few exceptions, the use of the application will be mandatory in the use of drones in airspace to ensure maximum safety. The mass growth of drones raises questions about private property, private housing and the protection of the private sector. In view of this, the bill allows for stricter state action by introducing new facts and taking into account the principle of graduality. An essential element of the amendment is that, in the case of legitimate drone use, given that in this case the fact of use and the identity of the user can be verified, the protection of the private sector will continue to be ensured by the private instruments currently available. In our view, this regulation protects the private sector of citizens and regulates the increasing use of drones to a sufficient extent, in line with EU regulations, and therefore the KDNP fraction supports the bill. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-18-58	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I now give the floor to Congressman Gyula Molnár, the lead speaker of the Group of the Hungarian Socialist Party.
u2020-11-18-59	Mr President, Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I'm not sure that I'm going to give you the same undivided sympathy I've given you in the previous two cases, but I'm trying very professionally, as my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, has done, to approach the subject. The number one question is that we need a regulation of this type now to leave the other political debates. I think that clearly yes, it is obvious that the European Union has dealt with this issue thoroughly and professionally. This directive would have come into force if it hadn't been for the plague, so it was pushed away until the end of December. It is therefore clearly justified and necessary to adopt the necessary rules in some form in the band designated for the Member States. So I think that we are dealing with this in time and in the right way. I'm going to tell you that, in this respect, I'm going to say that he's a man in an intermediate state, who I think understands this world, although I myself have little practice of how I feel when I read this bill, and when I've listened to your exposé. One thing is that you don't understand this world exactly. They see something mystical about it, and they're definitely trying to make some kind of restrictive business about it. And the other is, they're afraid of something. I don't want to end up like in the Columbo movies, telling you who the killer is too quickly, so I'm gonna leave that to the end. But I clearly believe that there is some kind of fear in this bill. So for you, in some way, this world is a little mystical, as if the kind of thing that is clearly radiating from your leader, that keeps you a little away from these electronic challenges, in some way, it doesn't touch him very much, that's what I feel in this bill. I think it's very clear that if we run through what they're trying to control, these are the right things. So I think it is right for us to sort out the records from the keepers in some way, and obviously it is right to set administrative fees, and it is obviously right to regulate education in some way. I think it's more or less right to have the kind of resolution that Lőrinc Nacsa mentioned, so the regulation of open and other things. So I have to say, these parts are good. But then let's see what it is that makes me feel like they're running a little too far. That's what I'm saying: they're afraid of something, and they don't think the world is right. One is that I think the world is going that if we consider the thing below 120 grams and without a camera as a game, then, in fact, a drone purchased for a child of almost 4-5 years of age will not satisfy that goal. 'Cause it's really not that the point of this is that something's flying there, because it was like this when I was a kid, like, really fast. But that's the whole point of this is to put some kind of interactivity and communication into it, so I don't think that's something to be so afraid of. So the game category, I'm pretty sure it's been pulled pretty low. I daresay very, very few products will fall into this band. I think it's also a little determined that 30 days ago, someone has to find out and report what they're planning to do and when they're planning to do it. Let's not forget that in the major part, now, apart from industrial use, people use it to capture something like that, a moment like that, in some way they think they see a place they want to photograph, they want to put it away for themselves. I think it's relatively difficult to compose in the event of any kind of event, or even the weather, so that I can decide 30 days before it, otherwise, to try to fix this waterfall, this little piece of forest, or this beautiful landscape in some way. So in this, too, I think it's worth putting in some kind of lane or some other kind of rules. Of course, the most exciting and interesting are the amendment of the Code of Violation and the Criminal Code. The keynote speakers have been quite discreet so far, and of course they have talked about this amendment, which is very justified, since the protection of the private sector and many things. But they didn't tell us or didn't say it, but let's say it in this room so that grateful posterity is also recorded, that in this bill they mention the possibility of imposing a fine of HUF 100 million, i.e. HUF 100 million. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Maximum!]] At most. But, ladies and gentlemen, 100 million forints! We're talking about thousands of people who obviously don't use this device for industrial purposes. A hundred million forints, I think, is an inexplicably high number in today's Hungarian reality. For you, these levels may have become the categories of punishment, so that for a hundred million forints, you can no longer risk it. But I think we're gonna have to stop. Because someone is breaking a rule, whether intentionally or accidentally, and can be punished by a hundred million forints, and, in comparison to that, in the penal code, he will impose a maximum of one year's imprisonment on a person who is committing a crime... but what is behind it? And here's where I try to get to what I think. It seems to me that you are deeply disturbed by the fact that Hungary's significant territory is in the realm of your oligarchs, and it is becoming more and more difficult to fly so that you do not videotape or record building facilities that, to put it mildly, go beyond local laws or anything else. So we are very clearly sensing and thinking, in the context of this bill, that there is nothing else to say about this extremely strict, extremely strong rule of this bill, which is about the fact that it is not possible to physically record in any form the illegal property that has been acquired in this country in any way that has been privately owned in recent years. It simply shines on this bill! [[10.40]] And when I can be chased by News TV, Pesti Guys or any TV that might be able to videotape my family, which can stand in front of the garage door, when I come out in the car, to see what kind of car I'm driving, because I'm a public figure, because that's what I'm doing, my asset statement is transparent and everything else transparent, then there will be a circle in Hungary whose life can't be transparent, because anyone who wants to watch it and videotape it will have a 100 million HUF fine on his head. Now, that's what I consider to be the biggest problem of this bill. From now on, I must say that everything else I tried to say at the beginning I tried to make it clear that, yes, it is a necessary regulation, yes, after 31 December, the EU regulation will enter into force, yes, we must regulate these small parts in Hungary na but I beg you! Are you guys really acting like you're just holding a hammer and looking at all the problems as nails? They really think that the regulation that something wasn't... they said such nice sentences, but really everyone, that we should be market leaders, that we should be chief in this case. No! It's about getting a hammer in their hand, and everyone with an inch lower head trying to hit the ground. That's what this story is about. And really, forgive me for saying this once again, despite all good intentions, you really try to look at this in many ways; it is simply unthinkable that today in Hungary we should go there in drone regulation, so that virtually less than 120 grams of cameraless things are drones, that virtually no one can fly over the head of any public figure, no one can go near it, because they are hit by a hundred million forints or a year in prison. So, ladies and gentlemen, for our part, we will not support this bill. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2020-11-18-60	Thank you very much, Congressman Gyula Molnár. I give the floor to Mr Lajos Oláh, the lead speaker of the DK Group.
u2020-11-18-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, My fellow Member, Gyula Molnár, is deeply right; it is practically an oligarch protection law before Parliament; we would prefer to deal with the disease control law rather than with the oligarch protection law. We would prefer to talk about the need to extend job search support or restart the state wage substitute, and not just a very narrow circle. Apart from the fact that these proposals are unfortunately not in front of the House, allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to read a letter on this subject, which perfectly shows that you are not consulting with anyone but the oligarchs, you have forgotten to ask, as my better fellow Member said, the people who are dealing with this. Maybe we should start a bill by doing social consultation. As a private drone user, amateur video player and photographer, I have long waited for a unified EU regulation. I waited because the previous regulation was completely unviable and unrespectable for both the owners and users of hobbies and unmanned aircraft used for work purposes. I was looking forward to writing in plural, we were waiting for the adoption of EU legislation in Hungary, which we expected would make it simpler, more life-changing, safer and more regular to use these not accidentally popular, versatile tools. By reading the submitted draft, however, you are disappointed, or what better describes the feeling, I became angry and clueless. The submitted bill not only improves the situation in Hungary and adapts it to the internationally customary rules of air transport, but also almost completely renders drone use impossible, use above the inhabited areas, and the unusually low weight limit of the open category internationally due to a fine that can be imposed in extremely high amounts. As my wise colleague before me has said. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The regulation, adopted in a drastic way over-regulation of EU regulation, would in practice bring about a final blow to drones, to the development of domestic drone culture, and would cement an unviable, virtually unenforceable case-by-case system where at least 30 days in advance would be required to know what the light conditions for photography would be, or when an event would take place where a journalist would have to take a picture of other areas of use that would seem more important to others. We can say good-bye to the beautiful recordings that show the architectural treasures, Christian churches and towers of our country in wonderful light conditions, but we have to cancel the use of drones even if we want to capture a natural miracle within a residential area, or if an insurance damage expert would like to photograph the damage of a roof or a plot or building with a drone photograph. There are thousands and thousands of examples of what's important to each of us. But for sure, drone technology is here, popular and useful. It would be a shame to repel drone use for years, the spread of that culture, de facto criminalizing it. They asked the government to have a professional consultation with private users, photographers, drone users, photographers, hobbies and other professional users, drone distribution companies, and on this basis the government makes its decision. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Dear Government, This has been missed as well as the real epidemiological measures. You have introduced an oligarch defense law instead of listening to the profession, the people involved in it. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the MSZP.]]
u2020-11-18-62	Thank you very much, Congressman Lajos Oláh. I now give the floor to Lóránt Keresztes, the lead speaker of the LMP Group.
u2020-11-18-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, The Secretary of State stated in his statement that the inadequate use of unmanned aircraft or drones could even hinder the performance of tasks of public interest. I completely agree with that, but I can also say that you are talking about the lack of unregulated treatment that bad regulation can also prevent you from performing important tasks in the public interest. The bill you have tabled will certainly make it impossible to carry out extremely important tasks in the public interest by the extremely strict, unjustified and incomprehensible regulation. This law, Honourable Secretary of State, contains bad, inadequate, unprepared and restrictions that are so unjustified and in many ways included in political motivations, which really repels drone use in Hungary for years: until such time as this law is destroyed by someone. This is absolutely amazing, and there are really long examples of how they do damage the Hungarian society in particular with these unprepared, undiscussed and undiscussed regulations, which clearly contain restrictions that are totally unacceptable. I would like to ask you back: we have heard from my fellow Members, Mr Dudás has said very in detail who have not been consulted, whose activities have not been taken into account, his professional experience so far, and I would like to ask you back if you have consulted anyone at all. So how has this legislation been prepared? Did you agree with professional organisations, any social organisations, have a look around at it at all, is it not an extremely new industry and a new opportunity to see what self-organizing social groups have developed that communicate with each other and share experiences? Mrs Mónika Bartos spoke very much about the economic context of this. What consultations have taken place with the economic operators? Have you considered the impact assessment of the economic impact of such a regulation? And if we look at the truly important and very encouraging opportunities in the context of economic development, how should this extremely important industry be regulated? So I specifically miss the fact that they were not attached to this bill, what kind of discussions they had, who they continued with, who was responsible for this, what forum, how they were documented, what experience they had received, how they were taken into account, what they had taken into account, what they had not taken into account, and why such a rather restrictive and strict regulation had come before the Parliament. I find this extremely outrageous and, in particular, examples of what very important tasks you will make impossible to carry out with this regulation up to the end of the day. My fellow Members have already drawn attention to the fact that not so long ago you had a very, very serious problem of seeing team transport vehicles armored on the property of one of their favorite oligarchs. I would like to ask you back, my fellow Members: if you look at this one case, how do you think it is, you have justified that a journalist might reveal such a case and disclose it to the public or not. So you can do this, you can't do it, you have to punish it, you don't have to punish it, you have to leave the possibility in any way that a drone or an airplane can now be argued about how, how such, possibly, corruption cases can be discovered or not? [[10.50]] You've brought a very clear regulation into this system, right, the regulation says it's a private home invasion if someone uses a camera mounted on drones to record him or his property without the permission of the person concerned. It's pretty amazing. It's basically shuts out almost all the recordings. But I would add that if a private individual wants to take a drone from his own property, he won't be able to do it without recording his neighbor's property, so it's practically always gonna be possible to connect him to the drone use. And yes, that makes it virtually impossible to investigate crimes, corruption cases, the search for them, which is extremely important, a matter of public interest, and I don't think anyone can argue with that. So, to make this impossible with such strict restrictions, this will cause concrete damage to Hungarian society. But I'll give you another example. For example, in case of environmental destruction: environmental destruction can be detected, detected, performed, followed by the use of an aerial recording, such as a drone. How will this be possible, and why do you think that in such a case such bureaucratic regulations can be linked to the pursuit of such an activity? Have you considered that? Or, for example, if you want to make a survey of any type of environmental destruction, corruption or any case involving, say, the location of a highly influential multinational company, then these brutal and quite extreme punishments may be interesting, if you look at a multinational company with extremely good political relations, economic power, whose specific economic interests are violated by the fact that anyone there is exposed in the public interest to activities that are contrary to the interests of the people there, then I think that any person concerned will very much consider using or trying to use this technology with such extreme fines. This is totally unacceptable. So I would also like to ask the honourable Secretary of State, and my fellow Members, how you think this has been negotiated, and you do not feel it is important that drone technology can continue to be used to carry out such activities. By the way, I do not see that this bill could be amended or even started to amend it. I am convinced that this must be withdrawn, and indeed, those very important discussions must be carried out, which may result in a bill coming before Parliament which does not prevent the implementation of tasks which are extremely important in the public interest and which can be carried out with such technology. In this form, of course, we can only press no for this, but I very much hope that many people will hear it, and I think that in the next few days an ever stronger protest will come about this extremely poorly prepared and unrealistic bill that will cause concrete damage to Hungarian people. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-18-64	Thank you very much, Mr. László Keresztes. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. We now have two-minute speeches. First, I give the floor to Mr Mónika Bartos, Fidesz Group.
u2020-11-18-65	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to four of their points. The first is the question of service, which has appeared several times. I think that if someone is doing leisure activities in driving, using, or hoping for an economic advantage to an unmanned aircraft, it will find places where there is reception. I know that there are areas in the country where there is no sufficient force, but this is a passion, I think, and those opportunities will be used by users, taking advantage of where they are. The other is that I think these people have a very good technical sense, a technical sense, so they can do either the drone treatment or the model construction. The second point was whether or not a case-by-case airspace was required. It is important to stress that this is mandatory for use above populated areas, so if you want to record the natural values of the Kiskunság National Park, you do not need to use ad hoc airspace, but it is very important for everyone to use the website and the application. The trial version of the application is already available, downloadable, and it would be very important for those involved to download it and send feedback on their experiences to HungaroControl Zrt. for you. In addition, it is important to stress that this is a kind of licence in relation to the designation of a case-by-case airspace; it serves to identify the vehicle and the pilot, and to ensure that the protection of the private sector can be achieved. And, yes, that's what you have to apply for, ad hoc airspace, if I want to record my own apartment, my own house. It's possible to make, but you just have to ask for this kind of permission, so to speak, you have to apply for ad hoc airspace. And now we're talking about the present, but drone use is looking forward to a great deal of perspective, so the regulation [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] covers the period when there will be much more equipment in the air. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience.
u2020-11-18-66	Thank you very much, Mónika Bartos. I'll give the floor to Congressman Róbert Dudás for two minutes.
u2020-11-18-67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, We have heard a number of arguments and arguments, and now it seems as if this is a dispute between the opposition and the ruling party on a cardinal issue. No, please. This is the debate between the profession and the governing party, but only the voice of the profession was brought in by opposition colleagues. That's what I'm asking you to accept. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] The truth is that neither we nor the profession and this is much more important, neither we nor the profession can support this proposal, but not only can we not support it, it will be extremely harmful to the profession for the future. Referring back to what I said at the beginning of my speech, and perhaps several times, consultation with professional organisations is inevitable. This is the most fundamental thing, and this is the most fundamental thing that has been left out in the preparation of this bill. Please consider professional organisations as a partner, because a good decision can be made if you hear the opinions of professionals. It is clear from the current bill that this has not happened, not even because I have read to you what the Presidents of four major professional organisations have written to Minister Palkovic, and there has been no correction or incorporation from their proposal, but I will go on. Three years ago, these organisations expressed their views on 26 points. Three years ago, in 26 points, and now they have taken the time to turn to Minister Palkovic, who is in charge of the field. Please take these advices, start a consultation and reach a consensus that is acceptable to all of us, most of all acceptable to the profession. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-18-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members with a mask. We will continue with the two-minute speeches. Mr Lőrinc Nacsa is coming from the KDNP Group. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-69	Thank you very much. Mr President, I wanted to respond to Congressman Molnár. He said we were afraid of this area. I don't see any fear here, and even I think I consider myself a man who is particularly interested in technological and technical innovations, and always monitors them, but I think it doesn't matter what individual, whether you or my individual affinity, stands on this issue, because the important thing is that the safety of people, the security of mass events, otherwise the security of the private sector is guaranteed. This is our task, and obviously the reason for this regulation is because we see how dynamically, from one year to the next, the number of drones has doubled. I was at an event where a small weight, fortunately small drone, fell into the crowd, could have caused a serious accident. Thank God, it's just a very superficial, small injury, and obviously financial damage to the drone. But I think, in your example, that you can be photographed when you walk out of your garage with your car, what kind of car you have, that's a fact; but I don't think you would like to be photographed in the backyard of your cottage with your children, your relatives, in a bathing suit, in any way you might be photographed at the cottage. I think that the private sector is sacred, and that everyone has the right to the right of the private sector to its sanctity. I think it is appropriate or appropriate to consider this when we talk about such matters. By the way, obviously, as my colleague Mónika Bartos said, we see how rapidly this market is growing, and we also need to be prepared that if there is such a doubling here every year now, then this quantity should be surrounded by proper and appropriate regulation. I think it's not about the restriction, it's about setting the exact framework so that accidents that don't happen, or even if they do happen, don't give me the god, then the responsible person is there, as they have already happened. [[11.00]] And speaking of weight, I've just looked at one of the best-known electronic webshops, 80 grams of the first drone to come across. So you can fit into the game category. Thank you, Mr. President. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-70	Thank you very much, Congressman. At the same time, a two-minute speech from the DK Group will be followed by Mr Lajos Oláh. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-18-71	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I suggest that you consider my fellow Member Dudás's proposal, and I would like to join in on this: to withdraw this proposal until appropriate consultation with professional organisations is carried out. He has also consulted with professional organisations, my socialist fellow Member, myself, and all of them have said that you have forgotten to do so. They may have been sending an alibi, back mail, but there was no real reconciliation. You can make a much better law out of that. It'd be good if they took that back. As long as you're working on this, we're gonna deal with the real problems of this epidemic, and you're gonna bring that back when you handle this. But don't bring it back unless you can guarantee for 30 days in advance which day the sun will shine, when there will be a cloud, when there will be fog, because photographers would have to know that if they wanted to take a photo like this, say, of Hero's Square. As long as you can't guarantee this, you can't tell me, so don't bring back such a silly proposal, and I would like to ask you with great respect. Let's just stick to rescinding it, reworking it, and see if we can bring in something that could actually be observed intelligently, and actually brings about the development of this business, industry, and hobby, rather than making it impossible. Because, in addition to making the business impossible, you would make a part of the journalism impossible by punishing a hundred million people, because you would be prohibited from flying over the luxury estates of Balaton and showing that without any permission or other, you are building up what land was carried out in Tihany's territory, which was an orbital scandal. That's what you want to cover up. You don't want to be so kind as to be concerned about the subject. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2020-11-18-72	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would also like to address the group leader László Keresztes Lóránt for a two-minute speech from the LMP group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-11-18-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I am pleased that my fellow Members agree with my proposal that this proposal should be withdrawn, this cannot be welded, this is so bad and legislation is so far from good, that it should simply be withdrawn and indeed the professional consultation that could underpin the submission of a viable bill should be launched. Dear Congressman Nacha, I myself did not say that there was no need for regulations, obviously there is a need for regulations, there is also a need to protect privacy, but at the same time it is not possible to present such a bill, which makes the use of these drones virtually impossible in cases of extreme public interest. Please consider this proposal and withdraw it. Not because of our speeches, but because of the people involved and by reason of reason at all, withdraw this extremely poorly presented bill! Thank you very much.
u2020-11-18-74	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I am speaking from the MSZP Group to Mr Gyula Molnár. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-18-75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, About the 1850s, in London, England, there was a study that said that if the stock of horses grew in such a quantity in London, the city of London would be covered by horse manure two to three metres in the vicinity of 1930-40. We saw London in 1940, and it didn't happen. What I'm trying to say is that we're thinking about the world at a certain moment, and we're trying to limit it. And that's what you've done, that's what I've been trying to say in my speech, that it's drastically limited, because for some reason you think it's going in the wrong direction. That means they're going to limit the world, while we need to let this go a little bit, we should let it go. There are fears, obviously there are moments or points to be dealt with in this matter, but you, I say it again, in some way, and I can't tell you anything else, but you want to cut it out of some instinctive fear, you don't want to let it get any better when we think the world is going this way. I'm the age group who still knows people who said in the early '90s that I wouldn't learn this cell phone because I don't care anymore because there's a lot of this button, it's complicated for me. And today we're there to tell me who's looking for anyone on the landline right now, the first thing we do is reach for the cell phone. So the world is changing, ladies and gentlemen, that's what I want to say. And that I don't have a vacation home, but there's a need for it, so I'll think about it when I need it. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-18-76	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr László Mosóczi, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[Dr. Laszlo Mosóczi nodds.]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-77	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I'd like to reflect very briefly. On the one hand, thank you for the supporting contributions. There is a very long and very serious work behind the drafting of this bill. We have had to take very much into account, in particular the EU legislation, its obligations, taking advantage of, of course, the opportunities that we can make as national legislation. Obviously, as with all countries, state interests, the interests of economic development had to be taken into account. It is important that our country, like many other areas, should play a leading role in innovation in the future, so this should also be an opportunity. It's very important to have privacy. I believe that all countries place particular emphasis on this. And we have to take into account that the airspace is used by many, and the most important thing is the regulation of safety, safe transport and use of aircraft. In view of all this, we have done our job. Thank you, everyone, who has been involved in this work, and thank you for your support. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-78	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Poland on the publication of an agreement on the amendment of the Agreement on reciprocal visa representation until its conclusion. Government referral T/13638. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I now give the floor to Mr Péter András Sztáray, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-79	Mr President, Thank you very much. Dear House, The purpose of this bill is the 2014 XLV. amending Article 4 of the Agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Poland on Mutual Visa Representative. The amendment is required by the most recent amendment of the Visa Code. Under that Regulation, Member States may request that the central authorities of other Member States consult with their central authorities when examining applications submitted by certain third-country nationals. The Visa Code has previously allowed the parties to conclude the visa representation agreement to decide whether the consultation should be initiated by the represented or represented party. If initiated by the represented party, it could, on the basis of the answers received, provide the representative with a simple yes or no reply as to whether the visa may be issued. According to the new system, consultation can now only be initiated by the representative party and it is therefore necessary to amend some representative agreements concluded under the previous rule. Most of the agreements have already been amended by changing the diplomatic register, but the Hungarian-Polish visa representation agreement has been concluded by international treaty, it has been published in law, and therefore the decision of the Parliament is also necessary to amend it. In view of the fact that the Polish party initiated the amendment of the agreement by changing the list, there was no need for Nsztv from the Hungarian side. 5. § 1 to issue a Prime Minister's decision authorising the creation of an amendment. The law announces the text of the agreement in Hungarian and English in a uniform structure. The mutual visa representation agreement consists of eight articles and contains comprehensive rules for visa representation between Hungary and Poland. Pursuant to Article 5 of the Agreement, the Contracting Parties shall designate diplomatic and consular missions to which the provisions of this Agreement apply in implementing agreements concluded by way of a change of list. Hungary currently represents Poland in Vietnam, Ho Chi Minh City, while Poland represents our country in North Korea, Pyongyang. To sum up, the aim of the amendment to the agreement is to fulfil the obligations of our country arising from its membership of the EU and Schengen. [[11.10]] The text of the amendment to the agreement is annexed to the bill. The oral list will be sent to the Embassy of the Republic of Poland in Budapest by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade following the publication of the Act. The amendment shall enter into force on the first day of the month following the receipt of the Polish Party's reply list. I ask this House to accept the bill that has been tabled. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-80	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Zoltán Fenyvesi. You have the floor, Congressman. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-81	[[No microphones.]] Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, The bill on the international treaty before us is also a good example of the traditionally excellent Polish-Hungarian relations. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Poland has recently submitted its oral list of amendments to the Agreement on Mutual Visa Representation signed on 14 March 2014. Accordingly, Article 4 of the Agreement is amended as already cited. Previously, according to the latest amendment of the Community Visa Code, prior consultation prior to the decision on the visa application has become the sole responsibility of the representative...
u2020-11-18-82	Congressman, please adjust your microphone. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-18-83	It doesn't have to be adjusted that much, because I didn't even wear it.
u2020-11-18-84	We'll be counting on your time frame.
u2020-11-18-85	Thank you very much. Before the latest amendment to the Community Visa Code, prior consultation prior to the decision on the visa application has become the exclusive responsibility of the representative. This was previously the competence of the represented party, which was in practice carried out by sending the visa application data on a secure channel to the Central Visa Authority of the represented party, which initiated the consultation procedure with the Schengen Member States. The representative was subsequently informed by the party represented of the outcome of the procedure. Therefore, in accordance with the legislation laid down in the Schengen acquis, applicants may be issued by the Contracting Parties, on their behalf, a single Schengen visa for short-term entry. The Fidesz parliamentary group supports the signing of the international treaty. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-86	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Róbert Dudás. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear fellow Members, Mr. Secretary. Please allow me to ask you a question at the beginning before I give you my opinion. Here, on page 3, the Hungarian party hereby informs the honourable embassy that the internal legal procedures for the entry into force of the agreement have been completed. What do you mean? Or hasn't the legislator gone a little further on the question that this has already been adopted, because we will be discussing it now. Obviously, I think that all parties in Parliament, whether it be government parties or opposition parties, will give their support, but please, I would like to mention this. Jobbik considers it important that we have proper external relations and that our external relations are properly maintained. I have met with Mr Secretary of State on several occasions at the Foreign Affairs Committee meeting, and I will not talk about the details of which I will now, but I would like to mention that I have a special pleasure in listening to these meetings when the candidates for ambassadors are being heard. I said I wouldn't go into details because these are all closed seats. At the same time, the concepts that say there that we should be talking about Latin America, North America or the Middle East with these countries, what kind of relations we can develop, what individual ambassadors think about, how they can enforce Hungary's interests, are extremely important. I think that it would also be important for Hungary if Hungary were a world power, but as a small country in the middle of Central Europe, I think it is extremely important to ensure that these relations are properly maintained, so that Hungary can be strengthened politically or economically, so that we can exploit its potential. Let me also mention a counterexample of the mistakes that the Hungarian government and the leadership of Hungarian diplomacy should not make, and this is the American presidential election that took place a few weeks ago, which was announced recently. I think that this was a fatal mistake by the Hungarian government and Hungarian diplomacy, that the Hungarian government openly supported one of the parties. I think it has been said in several professional forums, and I fully believe that the economy of the United States of America is not dependent on the Hungarian economy. The Hungarian economy, on the other hand, is extremely dependent on the economy of the United States of America. We don't have to have a good relationship with one or the other presidential candidate, but with the elected American president and his administration. We must have a good relationship with him, not only by maintaining political but also external economic relations, helping to increase the economy of our country, as the second largest investor in Hungary is the United States of America in relation to foreign states. Jobbik's position on the bill before us is that, of course, we are giving our maximum support, but I would also ask that we look carefully towards our external relations in order to serve Hungary's interests. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-18-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Ms Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-18-89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I thank the Secretary of State for the detailed presentation of the bill. This is also a very good example of how well Polish-Hungarian cooperation works. As the Secretary of State has pointed out, and my fellow Member, the aim of the proposal is to publish, on the one hand, the text of the agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Republic of Poland amending the agreement on the joint visa representation, which may be changed into a list. As Minister of State pointed out, the amendment of the agreement was initiated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Poland in order to comply with the changed EU legislation, under which the preliminary consultation prior to the decision on the visa application became the exclusive responsibility of the representative. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that, on the basis of the foregoing, the Government of Hungary initiates the granting of authorisation to recognise the binding scope of the Treaty by submitting a draft law on its publication to Parliament. What I would also like to highlight in the context of the bill is the Hungarian-Polish mutual visa representation agreement, which consists of eight articles and provides for visa representation. This includes, on the one hand, the general rules for visa representation, the way in which the implementing agreements necessary for the visa representation agreement are to be defined, the possibility of amending the agreement, of suspending it and the way in which it can be resolved in the course of the application of the agreement. The Agreement provides for the right of the Contracting Parties to issue a single Schengen visa for short-term entry on their behalf to applicants who comply with the rules laid down in the Schengen acquis. Ladies and gentlemen, In the light of the provisions of the Act on the Procedure for International Contracts, the Parliament authorizes the recognition of the mandatory scope of the Agreement and is published by this Act, as the subject matter governed by it falls within the competence of the Parliament. KDNP supports the bill. Please, you'll support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-90	Thank you very much, honourable Member. The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-91	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I could talk about Polish-Hungarian friendship here for a long time. There is a classic saying that. Polish, Hungarian, two good friends, fight together and drink their wine. I could say that in Polish, of course, but I don't want to shock the stenographers in the middle. What I'm trying to say is that it's an excellent proposal, and I've been thinking, while I've been listening to you guys, that you don't usually think that when you protect it so strongly that we give up a piece of our sovereignty, how warriors in certain cases, and when it comes to a friend, how simple that is. [[11.20]] What an easy thing to do. 'Cause I'm actually thinking about it right now, we're taking a very serious trust step towards something just because we like it. But now we think they're good. I read very often about your European programme in connection with the previous EP election campaign. It would be worthwhile for you to show off at times because you would see very clever and interesting things about the rule of law criteria. It would be very instructive and smart to go through these, and I would be happy, in addition to visa relations, if we were not in such a delicate and embarrassing situation right now, that out of some fear, which I think is also a confession in this case... so that you, in fact, are afraid that EU funds are bound to state of law, that we would be together. I'd be happy to have something else to do with our Polish friends on a platform. But we are, of course, happy about this visa and this whole convention, and we are not drinking ahead of the bear's skin, but we will support this bill. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-18-92	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Lajos Oláh. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-18-93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I also appeal to you, as a representative of the government, on this agenda, to make a respectful request to prioritise matters brought before Parliament and to deal primarily with epidemiological issues. I mean, they're still working with health professionals who don't get paid, they're taking over, and they're getting some of their money a long time later. Dear Secretary of State, Knowing you, this must be unacceptable to you, so with great respect, I ask you to translate this to your government, to take this step, not to wait until tomorrow, but to act now. In the same way, I would ask you, Commissioner, to look at the international example in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to see Austria, Germany, where the municipalities are being supported in this difficult situation, under the emerging epidemic conditions, with great respect, I would ask you to prepare for the government a document on how to support the municipality in other European countries, in case the government decides to finally start supporting these municipalities. My fellow Member, Juhász, has asked for an ambassadorial hearing. I have repeatedly initiated that we do not do this behind closed doors, what is the point of this secrecy? Well, let's not think that anyone who wants to doesn't know, foreign intelligence, who will be the new Hungarian ambassador in Ankara or elsewhere. Well, let's believe they know. Therefore, the respectful request would be to bring those... [[Dr. Péter András Sztáray is talking to Mónika Bartos.]] I'll wait for Secretary of State to be able to listen.
u2020-11-18-94	Don't wait for him, Congressman, go ahead.
u2020-11-18-95	I might expect an answer from the Secretary of State, so it is important that...
u2020-11-18-96	Congressman, go on, because I'm going to take the floor from you.
u2020-11-18-97	I'll go on and on, Mr. President, it's very kind of you to warn me. So it's important that the ambassadorial hearings aren't in such a secret room. Otherwise, there was openness from several representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and they said that legislation dictates that this cannot be done publicly. You can also look at the biographies for a congressman in the same room. Well, are we normal? ! Do we really think that this makes any sense today when someone puts that person's name on the Internet and gets the information about who they are? Because, Mr Secretary of State, since there has already been some openness to this in the previous points, I would like to ask you to look at the fact that there is real legislation that really hinders it, or that is simply a bad habit, and if this is the wrong custom, then do it already, so that we can jump over these, and that the hearings of ambassadors can finally be made public. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-18-98	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I would like to ask my fellow Members, who would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the general debate is closed. I am now asking Mr Péter Sztáray, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-99	Yes, Mr President, thank you very much again. I would just like to make a few comments on what has been said. One is that the proposal for a bill is now being submitted because it is a task that we have to do and that cannot be expected, and we also believe that during the epidemic, life does not stop, and that other tasks must also be carried out. However, this obviously does not mean that the government's attention is weakened in dealing with the epidemic. The question of why the draft list contains the fact that the internal legal procedures have been completed is the explanation for this, it is also a routine procedure to prepare the documents in advance, and, of course, when this House has voted on it and the law has been published, the list will be sent to the Polish party. And I would like to make one more comment, although this is not relevant to the subject, but since several Members have raised the issue, the secrecy of the ambassadorial hearings is due to two reasons. One of the content: there are often findings and evaluations that are not necessarily correct if they are made public, as they would affect the relations between the given relationship, Hungary and the country, which is not our intention if necessary. The other reason is that the ambassadorial hearing in the committees takes place before the action of the host country, i.e. the granting of agrément, and therefore cannot be made public about who the candidate is, as this would be a kind of diplomatic insult to the host country, because we have to wait for the host country to give its consent to receive the candidate. So these are the two reasons. We have talked about this at committee level before, but I repeat now. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-18-100	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general debate between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the announcement of an agreement on the promotion and mutual protection of investments until the closure is reached. Government referral T/13639. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter András Sztáray, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-101	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, The bill before you adds a new element to the legislative framework for the development of economic relations between Hungary and the Kyrgyz Republic. The aim of the agreement to be announced is to promote bilateral Hungarian-Cyrgyz economic relations, including investment relations, and to make the investment environment safer and more favourable. The agreement concerns investments made by investors from both countries in each other's territory. The agreement therefore serves the protection and legal certainty of Hungarian investors established in the Kyrgyz Republic on a reciprocal basis, which is of particular importance in the fast growing region of Central Asia with a number of market opportunities. The objective of the Hungarian Government's external economic strategy is to encourage foreign investments by Hungarian companies and to strike a balance between the profits generated there and the profits exported by foreign investors. The implementation of this strategy is based, inter alia, on the establishment of bilateral investment protection agreements, such as the agreement between Hungary and the Kyrgyz Republic. Since the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty in 2009, foreign direct investment has been part of the common policy within the European Union. This means that the Member States of the European Union can conclude an investment protection agreement with other Member States if the European Commission has also issued an approval mandate under the necessary national authorisation. This was done in the event of an agreement between Hungary and the Kyrgyz Republic and was signed on 29 September 2020. The Treaty was therefore concluded on the basis of the guidelines of the European Union and with its approval. Dear House, One of the main functions of the agreement is to provide investors in both countries with legal guarantees to protect their investments. [[11.30]] Several domestic farmers in the territory of the Kyrgyz Republic are currently informed with a view to later investment. It is of particular importance for investors to ensure fair and impartial settlement of any disputes that may arise against the State. Thanks to this agreement, Hungarian investors and their investments can expect international legal protection when resolving any disputes. The agreement, consisting of a total of 16 articles, meets the content requirements set by international standards. The agreement contains a number of guarantee elements for companies investing abroad, including protection of discrimination, the highest benefit and national treatment. Investment protection agreements, including this agreement, provide an appropriate way to resolve disputes between the investor and the State. This provision constitutes the main guarantee for investors and therefore forms part of any investment protection agreement. That provision also provides protection in cases where the provisions of the investment protection agreement cannot be implemented directly in a given country before the partner's domestic court. Dear Parliament, We expect the conclusion of the agreement to help the development of investment relations between Hungary and the Kyrgyz Republic by protecting investors, and I therefore ask you to adopt the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Zoltán Fenyvesi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, Ten years ago, the Hungarian government was attacked by many when the strategy for Eastern opening began and announced this. Since then, I hope those opposers who have questioned the legality of this and the good faith have acknowledged that this was a good initiative, have fulfilled the expectations attached to it. However, this area still has many opportunities for Hungary and Hungarian companies and companies. The proposal and the proposal before us serve precisely the purpose of encouraging investment by Hungary and Hungarian companies in Kyrgyzstan and Hungary. The role of the East has clearly been strengthened in the global economy. In the last ten years, the country's exports to the east increased by 22 percent, and 60 percent of the investment in Hungary came from the East last year, and 40 percent of the newly created jobs were linked. In Kyrgyzstan, we managed to expand Hungarian exports by 7 percent in the first half of 2020. A number of new opportunities can be opened up to Hungarian businesses in our partner, including the fact that the unfortunately existing pandemic can significantly transform the global economy system. The bill before us, as well as the agreement on the avoidance of double taxation between Hungary and Kyrgyzstan, signed at the same time at the end of September and adopted yesterday, is also a useful opportunity for us, as they ensure that Hungarian companies appear in Kyrgyzstan in a legal context. This agreement will make the operation of companies more secure and predictable in the territory of the other State. This agreement also provides us with a good background for Hungary to be the first to conclude a strategic agreement with Kyrgyzstan in the European Union. The Hungarian Group of Fidesz supports the adoption of the international treaty. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyure, Member of the Parliament. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-105	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, My fellow Member, Zoltán Fenyvesi, referred to the strategy and programme of the Eastern Opening in his previous speech as a keynote speaker. I would like to highlight this myself, because the Jobbik Movement for Hungary was the one that, in 2010, when it came to the National Assembly, was the first to deal with this issue, and we put the proposals on this issue first, and we proposed this Eastern Open Programme, which, fortunately, was accepted by the government. We consider it very important to involve the countries of the Eastern region, Central Asia, the Middle East and the Far East countries as much as possible in Hungarian economic development, and to develop these partnerships as much as possible with these countries, so obviously we are in favour of the current proposal on the agenda. Kyrgyzstan is also one of these countries, which lies in Central Asia, and we consider this Central Asian country to be an important trading partner. By the way, there are some interesting things about it: it is a mountain country, it has high mountains, because Altaj Mountains and Tien-san are also located here, with its highest peak of nearly 7500 meters. It is an old historical country, since the history of the country is all the way to the third century B.C. It goes back a century. Another interesting thing about the country and the people of Kyrgyzstan was recorded by Chinese sources a thousand years ago, as an interesting fact that the people of Kyrgyzstan were red-haired, blondes, and green-eyed and blue-eyed, so it doesn't fit in at all in the system we imagine of Central Asian people, and obviously there was a change in that too. The storms of history did not spare Kyrgyzstan until the 19th century. In the second half of the century, the country became under the influence of the Russian Empire, and in 1876 it was attached to the Russian Empire, and then it became a Member State of the Soviet Union. And how interesting that in 1991, when it was decided to remain a part of the Soviet Union, 88.7 percent of the Georgian people voted to stay in the Soviet Union at the time, but how interesting it was that the Soviet Union fell apart, and so in 1991 this country declared independence. By the way, the population is smaller than Hungary, since it has a population of 6.2 million, while its territory is much larger, 200 thousand square kilometres, so the population density is smaller due to the high mountains. Seventy percent of its population still live in Kyrgyzstan, Uzbek, Russians. The most typical religion is Muslim, sunnite, 75 percent of the country. It is primarily an agricultural country and nomadic shepherding, as well as cotton production. Ipara is rather insignificant, but developing, economic relations are primarily with Switzerland, Kazakhstan, Russia, China, Uzbekistan and Turkey, and obviously it is also necessary to develop with Hungary. His GDP is low enough; since we talked about Saudi Arabia today, he has almost 50 times the GDP per capita in Saudi Arabia as in Kyrgyzstan. With this contract, both Contracting Parties promise fair and equitable treatment in their territory, full protection and security for investors of the other Contracting Party and their investments; they mutually ensure that they grant the same rights as they grant to their own nationals and which they grant to investors of a third State. The agreement provides for compensation, expropriation, freedom of bank transfers, settlement of investment disputes, and means of settlement of disputes. So I think that this is a law or an agreement that should be supported in any way, and therefore the Jobbik Hungary Movement supports it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-18-106	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Ms Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-18-107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, As has already been said by the Secretary of State, this is a bill of utmost importance for the Eastern opening and the implementation of the external economic strategy. The fundamental aim of the establishment of an agreement between the Government of Hungary and the Government of the Kyrgyz Republic on the promotion and mutual protection of investments is to develop and facilitate economic relations between the two countries, in particular to make the conditions for investment activities in their respective territories more favourable, more secure and thus to encourage investment. The agreement provides conceptual definitions on the basis of which the defence and guarantee system are ensured. The Agreement provides for fair and equitable treatment of investment disputes by means of principles and the application of national treatment and the highest benefit, in addition to this it states the need to create favourable investment conditions. [[11.40]] It also provides for transfers of income generated, ways of settling disputes and conditions of compensation for losses suffered, as well as transparency and publication of information. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that the priority purpose of this agreement is the legal guarantee elements which ensure the protection of investments for investors in both countries. Ladies and gentlemen, The investment protection agreement between the two countries creates a legal framework for investment in each other's territory. KDNP supports the bill. I need your support. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-11-18-108	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The principle is that, obviously, if it is possible to work with any country in the world to encourage investment, it must be concluded, it must be done, as there is nothing more important than that the entrepreneurial Hungarians, who want to leave so far away from their country, must do so in a protected way. For my part, I liked this Eastern opening formula for a very long time, until I was exposed to that simple doubt or doubt that the opening of the East was not a western closing. If you can reassure me and tell me whether the opening to the east is about recognizing the historical situation, that it will indeed be one of the most important areas of Asia in the coming centuries, so I will say Asia in a broad sense, even this part that we are talking about, then I will gladly support and accept it. If we think it's something we're not doing, so we think we're closing something down, we're not doing something, and we're building something to replace it, then I'd like to say that I can't go any further with you in this way, either in thinking or in other things. It is very far from what I think of the world, I think about what Hungary's place and future should be in the coming decades. But, once again, I think it is an important idea to open the East, and I would like your prime minister, his party president, to learn not the things about democracy, but rather how and how to support economies in difficulty. Allow so many cultural detours that, obviously, because of the memory of Qingiz Ajtmatov, we will certainly support the conclusion of this kind of convention. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-18-110	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Lajos Oláh. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-18-111	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask Mr Secretary of State whether he would now calmly recommend to Hungarian companies that they go to Kyrgyzstan, that there is this great recovery you are saying, that you recommend to anyone with a calm heart that they go to Kyrgyzstan and invest in this period. The other thing I wanted to say is that the ambassadorial hearing that you responded to in relation to its publicity, I understand your reasons, but I do not see that all countries consider these things as a principle, because there are examples in countless countries that the ambassadorial hearing is public. So I think it might be worth a little thought about this, maybe there's a way to make it public. Part of it has to be public, and I think it can be solved somehow, because this is the direction we should be moving in. I've already asked Mr. Secretary of State for two things: what is it that you should look into internationally, and here during the outbreak, the government will be informed. Let me ask you to take a look at the rentals in Austria and Germany. I think it is very important for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to draw up such a table as to what workers in Austria can provide wage support, because one of the most important things is to deal with what is affecting people every day during this epidemic. Kirgiz investment is an important thing, I'm sure someday there will be a company that wants to deal with it, but today it may be more important to look at this surrogate story. This Austria, which is always mentioned by the Prime Minister, provides a much more serious, much more complex replacement. The Prime Minister may not know this, so it is important that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs prepare such a table for him. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Gyula Molnár applauds.]]
u2020-11-18-112	I ask my fellow Members who would like to speak in the debate. [[For signal:]] Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa from the KDNP Group has spoken. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-113	Thank you very much. Mr President, Just a reaction to Gyula Molnár and Lajos Oláh. Eastern opening also means a policy of western maintenance, both of which are true at the same time. I agree with you on what you said. Now, if you look at it, Péter Szijjártó, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, for whom we wish you to get better from here, agreed yesterday with the leaders of forty large German companies, today he is negotiating with the American-Hungarian Business Council. You can see that we are dealing with the weight of investment in the exact place, the weight of the countries that are most present in Hungary or where Hungarian exports are directed. So I agree with you, there is no difference of opinion, so please also support the Eastern opening policy. I would also like to say to Mr Lajos Oláh that I agree with the need to help people who are in trouble in a crisis. That's why I don't understand why your employee, Peter Niedermüller, told me these days that it's safe to ask for more money from someone who owns a car. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-11-18-114	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Lajos Oláh also asked for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-115	[[Not using a microphone:]] Honourable Congressman, Not knowing doesn't exonerate you. You do not know that the former mayor of Fidesz, Zsolt Vattamány...
u2020-11-18-116	Congressman, the microphone!
u2020-11-18-117	[[He's putting the microphone on.]] My apologies. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-18-118	It's okay. Time to start over.
u2020-11-18-119	Honourable Congressman, You do not know that the former mayor of Fidesz, Zsolt Vattamány, has already started preparing for how to do it in the district, so that only those who, let's say, can afford to live in an apartment of 200 square meters. So you should first ask the former mayor of Fidesz, Zsolt Vattamány, that, by the way, there is a point in raising at some level that not only the 2000 HUF registration fee will be paid for cars. You forgot to add that Mayor Niedermüller said that in return the residents would receive something. What do they get? They get that there will be designated parking spaces that only residents can use, honourable fellow Member, which you have forgotten that this can be done. Nine years of fidesz driving, they talked about it, but they didn't dare touch it. There must be a designated parking spot in a local government that only residents can use. You know, when you announced free parking, it meant that local residents were in even more difficult circumstances, that they could not find a parking spot, that the municipality was losing revenue, that there was pollution and that it could still be classified, honourable Member. Therefore, it is important that in such a case a responsible municipality wonders how it can provide parking space for its residents. Thank you so much for the opportunity.
u2020-11-18-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to speak in the debate. [[No signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Péter Sztáray, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[For signal:]] Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-121	Mr. President, thank you very much. I would like to stick to the subject, which is on the current agenda, and I would like to reflect briefly on them. One of them. It is well known that the strengthening of foreign economic relations in general has two main pillars in all relations: one is an agreement on the avoidance of double taxation and the other is an agreement on investment protection. Without them, a country can only move in a very uncertain environment on the external markets. It is therefore very important to conclude such agreements in as many relations as possible, and that is why I think that the current agreement with Kyrgyzstan is welcome and important. In relation to the question of the situation in Kyrgyzstan, and the context with the possibility of investment, I would note that, indeed, in recent months there has been an internal political crisis in Kyrgyzstan, but the Kyrgyz political elite is already recovering from this crisis. It is likely that presidential elections will take place in January, and the current interim president has resigned. So I think there's a way out. In the medium term, I would recommend to Hungarian entrepreneurs that they look around this country, because there are many opportunities for investment. I would point out that exports and investments from Hungary to abroad have increased significantly over the last ten years, and we have been able to do this by increasing our growth in the East, and by supporting this policy and economic policy of Eastern opening, but at the same time by maintaining and increasing exports to the EU and the United States. [[11.50]] I therefore think that this is also an objective policy that can be assessed as successful in this respect, since exports in the Western direction have not decreased either. Finally, on the point that has come from Member Oláh regarding the replacements, I can only say that I am passing on this request, I do not want to reflect on it in particular. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. The general debate on the presentation of a protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Tunisia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union until its closure. The government referral is T/13640. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Péter András Sztáray, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-123	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, I'll be brief. I'm not gonna take 30 minutes. I would like to say that the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement was signed by the Parties in Brussels on 17 July 1995. The agreement entered into force on 1 March 1998, and then the minutes of the Parliament to take account of the agreement and the enlargement of the EU in 2004 were set out in Annex XV to the Act of Accession of 2011. published by law, so the agreement became part of the Hungarian legal order. The Euro-Mediterranean agreement significantly increased the EU's role in the North African region and demonstrated the political identity and value of the parties on a number of international issues in relation to certain global and regional issues. On the basis of the mutual tariff liberalisation applied to trade in industrial, agricultural and fishery products, it was intended to establish a free trade area between the European Union and Tunisia, providing Tunisia with broad, preferential access to the EU market. The Agreement establishes cooperation in areas such as political dialogue, free movement of goods, freedom to provide services, salaries, capital and competition, scientific, technical and technological matters, reducing migratory pressure, in particular by creating jobs, and improving education in areas where migrants come from, as well as in the fight against money laundering, drug trafficking, organised crime and corruption. As with Croatia's accession to the EU in 2013, Hungary's accession to the EU and, as a result, the accession of Hungary to the Agreement required the entry into law of an additional protocol. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It was decided on by the European Parliament and the Council. The bill in question contains this additional protocol. In view of the friendly and strategic partnership between Hungary and Croatia and the importance of our cooperation within the European Union, Croatia's accession to the Agreement is an opportunity to reap mutual benefits under the Tunisian Association Agreement. I ask this House to accept the bill that has been tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mr Zoltán Fenyvesi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, In 1995 the European Union announced its new Mediterranean policy in Barcelona. The main starting point of the Barcelona process was that several European Member States felt that integration had turned too far towards new democracies in Eastern Europe, neglecting relations with the Mediterranean states and developing them. Perhaps the new direction was not a very elegant initiative for us Eastern Europeans at the time, but after a few years we could be full members of the Union, so we became beneficiaries of the EU's agreements with Mediterranean partners. Today, the EU has partners in the Maghreb countries, including Morocco, Tunisia and Algeria, but there is close cooperation with Egypt, Jordan or Israel. The agreement also has a major role to play in increasing intercultural understanding and thus strengthening social relations. On the economic side, the main objective is to establish a free trade area between the EU and its partners and the Mediterranean partners. Hungary and Tunisia are key partners to each other, their political relations are orderly and continuous. In recent years trade flows between the two countries have increased steadily, reaching USD 154 billion in 2018. Last year, our most important bilateral agreements were in the fields of culture, education and waste management. The bill before us is therefore intended to ratify the Protocol to become a Contracting Party to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement with Tunisia as a result of Croatia's accession to the EU in 2013. We are proposing the adoption of the international treaty, both because of the support of our southern neighbours and the good relations we have with Tunisia both directly and within the framework of the agreement. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-126	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Csaba Gyure, Member of the Parliament. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-127	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Tunisia joined the Euro-Mediterranean agreement in 1995, on which my fellow Member spoke in detail here, so I do not wish to present it. Croatia, as we well know, became a Member State of the European Union on 1 July 2013, and Croatia, as an Adriatic country, wishes to accede to the Euro-Mediterranean agreement, which obviously has every right to become a fully-fledged Member State of the European Union. Croatia had to initiate negotiations with Euro-Mediterranean Member States outside the EU to sign these protocols and to become a full member of this Euro-Mediterranean agreement. Negotiations with the Republic of Tunisia were successfully concluded in May 2018, with the approval of which the Republic of Croatia may become a full member of the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement. Hungary has, of course, given our strong support for Croatia's integration efforts, we have also supported its membership of the European Union, so it obviously supports this agreement as well, and it is clearly supported by Jobbik Hungary's Movement. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2020-11-18-128	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Ms Hajnalka Juhász. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-18-129	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, The purpose of the bill is, on the one hand, the publication of a Protocol to the Euro-Mediterranean Agreement establishing an association between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Tunisia, on the other hand, to take account of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union; the Agreement was signed in 1995, as has also been said. The Republic of Croatia became a Member State of the European Union on 1 July 2013, its accession was made by means of a document and a protocol. On 14 September 2012, the Council authorised the Commission to open negotiations with the third countries concerned with a view to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the Union. Negotiations with the Republic of Tunisia have been successfully concluded. The Council decided to sign the Protocol under which the Republic of Croatia becomes a Contracting Party to the Agreement. The EU is a remarkable partner due to the European attachment of Tunisia and its role in the North African region, as the Secretary of State stressed, which is beneficial for deepening bilateral political and economic and cultural relations. [[12.00]] The further development and extension of bilateral relations to new areas will provide a good opportunity, in addition to economic and trade issues, to take joint action against global challenges, taking into account, inter alia, Tunisia's role as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council. The agreement announced by law aims to promote regular political and security dialogue, economic, commercial and financial cooperation. The Euro-Mediterranean agreement significantly increased the EU's role in the North African region and took into account the political identity and value of the parties on a number of international issues on a number of global and regional issues. It aims to establish a free trade area between the European Union and Tunisia, which provides Tunisia with broad, preferential access to the EU market. The agreement will establish cooperation in areas such as those already mentioned by my fellow Member, such as combating the causes of illegal migration, money laundering, drug trafficking, the fight against organised crime and corruption. KDNP supports the bill. I need your support. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-130	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I'm telling Congressman Nacsa that I just looked into the Secretary of State's Facebook page, and that's where it really is. I wish him well, too. And I would like to say that you will certainly not get away with explaining to the Americans at such a low cost, but I say this on another subject. I don't really know what to say about it, and I actually just stood up to tell you that. And what I would like to say is that I wish you good luck with this agreement, and for our part, we will support it. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-18-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Lajos Oláh. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-133	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you for your information, Secretary of State.
u2020-11-18-134	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I ask my fellow Members that someone would like to speak in the debate. [[Interjection: No.]] No, thank you very much. I, too, am returning all that I have heard, and with due respect, I am closing the general debate. I would like to ask Mr Péter Sztáray, State Secretary, if you would like to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2020-11-18-135	No, thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-18-136	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. I'm ordering a two-minute technical break. [[It's a short break.]] Ladies and gentlemen, We'll get back to work. A general debate on the proposal to amend certain laws in the context of increasing the competitiveness of the film industry will follow until closure. Government referral T/13663. On the House's IT network, it is available for all of us. Now, if you're out of breath, Secretary Csaba Dömötör, I respectfully ask you to keep your expo. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Before any legislative amendment, it is worth clarifying the fundamental purpose of the proposals before us. This goal is now a double. On the one hand, it involves fundamentally technical changes that increase the competitiveness of the film industry. The other goal is to reduce the harmful economic effects of the epidemic in the film industry, which means most of all, that we want to protect jobs. If we have to define our goals in general, we cannot give them any lower than that of the Hungarian film industry to move to further levels. We would like more quality works to be created, and they will reach even more viewers, not just here, but abroad. Fewer and fewer people argue that we have taken important steps to achieve this in recent years, in which Andy Vajna played an inexhaustible role. There is no better justification for the efforts than that Hungarian films have received countless international awards: Oscar Prize, Cannes Grand Prix, Berlin Gold Bear. We've been waiting for the Oscar success since 1982, by the way. If we look at the last one year, the 12 months behind us, then we can say that Hungarian films won 63 awards at 35 festivals, and in the Oscar field we got back into the top ten. At the Emmy gala, the Oscar of TV films, we had two entries, and we brought the prize for the first time. Dear House, I would like to say more specifically about the key points set out in the bill. The bill includes provisions on, inter alia, the submission of motion picture rules, registers and aid applications, and also changes certain rules on extras. As regards the details, we know that our country has now become one of Europe's film centres. This generates significant revenues not only for productions but also for the central budget. Only in the previous year, the Hungarian cinema industry generated HUF 164 billion in revenue, making Hungary the second largest industrial player in Europe after the UK. Thanks to the high-budget productions, thousands of jobs have been created. This makes a significant contribution to Hungary's economic development, and the sector's tax and contribution revenue increases dynamically year after year. We'd like to keep it that way. Hungary has a strong competitive advantage from the fact that foreign actors and crew members coming to film shoots can settle their tax obligations much simpler than the general rules. However, this option is limited in time. Due to delays due to the coronal virus, we believe it is appropriate for film professionals arriving in Hungary to stay and work longer than the current time limit. The amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act raises the time limit for the stay of foreign actors and staff members in Hungary. Under the Motion Picture Act, 30 percent of state aid can currently be claimed for certain film costs. These include income paid to film participants. Due to the protection of the balance of the budget, these costs can currently be accounted for only 50% of the total amount of HUF 3 million per person when applying for the grant. The increase in incomes in the meantime justifies an increase in this threshold of HUF 3 million, so the proposal increases the accountability threshold to HUF 12 million per person. With these amendments, we can make film production in Hungary even more attractive on the international stage, while also protecting the expenditure side of the budget. We hope that it will be even more worthwhile to bring film productions into our country in the future, so that more jobs can be created and economic performance and budgetary revenue can continue to increase. Due to the increased costs in the film industry, it has also been justified to modify the income limit and the associated one-off burden on the simplified employment of film performers. Therefore, not only feature films, but also advertising films, it will be possible to have a simplified employment of extras, thus making shootings in Hungary even easier. Dear House, In order for Hungarian film production to remain competitive, it is also worth amending the rules on the use of indirect support, as well as the rules on the application of qualified labour force, in line with international trends. [[12.10]] There is also a fundamental condition for the sustainable functioning of the system, namely the proper legislative regulation of motion picture regulatory procedures. The purpose of the amendment of the regulatory provisions contained in the bill is to adapt the procedures of the film office, acting as a film professional authority, to the framework of the administrative procedure. The bill sets out changes on several points. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, The proposal also has an important purpose, and I should have mentioned this at the beginning, to facilitate the implementation of Hungarian films, this also applies to documentaries and small film films that represent Hungarian culture, Hungarian history or values that are important for the nation. Allow me to conclude by saying one thing, not directly because of the amendments, but because during previous debates this has come to pass. The demand for more Hungarian works has come to order, and as many Hungarian people as possible can watch as many Hungarian films as possible, at a high level. This is why I think it is important that the National Film Institute's Filmio platform will be launched tomorrow, where the archive and the current Hungarian films can be viewed at the same time. This is a very important step, since a digital interface is created that makes Hungarian works available even in the online space. This reflects the intention to keep up with drastically changing consumer habits and needs. Another significant development is the launch of the first TV series competition. Dear House, With the fundamental objectives of the bill, I think that we can all agree regardless of party standing, which is why we are counting on the support of our fellow Members. Thank you for your attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Now we're going to hear the speeches from the lead speaker. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group is Mrs Mónika Dunai. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-11-18-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, In recent years, Hungary has become increasingly, year after year, the centre of the international film industry, and we also feel that international attention is being focused on our country, and we have started to become a kind of European film center. This is shown by the awards and recognitions that Hungarian works and creators have received in recent years, but also by the fact that prestigious international directors and producers often put their shooting venues here in Hungary. This is good for us in many ways. On the one hand, with the end of the epidemic, we hope that Hungary, Budapest and our beautiful landscapes, cities and natural conditions will be able to become a tourist centre again. On the other hand, it is very important that professionals here receive not only recognition, work, but also proper attention for these films. We are proud that although the film is not a purely Hungarian film, which is being filmed here, they use Hungarian professionals because they are good, respected and happy to work with them. We need to know that 20 thousand people work in the film industry in Hungary, that 20 thousand people are employed, and, as Mr. Secretary of State said, it is very important for us, especially at this time of the epidemic, that, if possible, each sector, each layer of workers, should be helped by artists, musicians, doctors and nurses, by providing the right opportunities. That's what we want to do with this law. The Fidesz Group is very much in favour of this government's ambition. We also know that every year since 2016 the amount of HUF 100 billion is the direct cost of Hungarian film producers. So it is very, very important that these costs can be used here in Hungary, most of which are spent here in Hungary during the shootings, as well as the wages of many Hungarian professionals. Dear House, The present bill amends three laws at the same time: the Personal Income Tax Act and the Motion Picture Act, and the Third, the Law on Simplified Employment. The purpose of the amendment to the Personal Income Tax Act is, on the one hand, to correct the previous reference error to the Movement Image Act, which was also mentioned by the Secretary of State. On the other hand, according to the Motion Picture Act, according to the announcement of foreign performers and crew members, the amendment also harmonises the rules on the category of persons entitled to choose a simplified method of taxation for easier application of the law. So we're talking about an facilitation here. The amendment also ensures that it is possible for citizens of the European Union to opt for this method of taxation even if the rotation is delayed for some reason. The purpose of the amendment is also to allow performers and crew members involved in the film works to choose the simplified method of taxation even if, for some reason, they exceed 183 days of stay in Hungary. This can happen if performers or crew members participating in the film production participate in the production of several consecutive foreign film productions in Hungary. This amendment is in line with the interest of the national economy to produce as many foreign film productions as possible in Hungary. The obligation to make an official notification ensures that only a limited number of persons targeted by the legislation can avail themselves of the simplified method of taxation in the event of a longer stay. The amendment of the Motion Picture Act proposes changes and changes at several points. On the one hand, the interpretation provisions of the Motion Picture Act are complemented by the concept of a domestic individual; those who reside in Hungary on a permanent basis, as a way of life, again serve the interpretation of the law, the simplification and the specifics. Among the provisions of official procedural law, the proposal shall be made to ensure that procedures in the audiovisual field are not subject to any procedure. The purpose of the amendments is also to make it compulsory for the notified operators to notify changes to the notified data to the authorities in the case of the information contained in the notification of the cinema operation. In addition, the draft will facilitate the recording and organisation of mobile image statistics. The draft also amends the content of the application for age classification. The year of production and the genre belong to the circle of the identification data of the film production that is required in this process as well. Furthermore, the method of placing on the market becomes the data necessary for the effective conduct of the procedure. The proposal also proposes amendments to the rules for classification based on Hungarian participation rates. The amendment is necessary because, at the time of the classification procedure, the financial perspective is not yet available for the conduct of the procedure and for the substantive assessment of the application, but it is not necessary at that time. The law proposes to amend the legislation on the establishment of eligibility for aid, and the following justify this. In the genres affected by the change, the preparation of the scenario is not necessarily part of the production and creative process, only the income paid to individuals with a Hungarian tax identification mark as direct Hungarian film production costs can be used for indirect support. The obligation to notify non-EU foreign staff members is not justified in the future. The amendment makes the current regulation more gradual, given the legal uncertainty regarding the repayment of any State aid already used. The renaming of the final accounts leads to a better interpretation of the legislation as a corrective account. [[12.20]] The scope of costs recognised as direct film production costs is also modified. According to the amendment, only the costs for which the supply of goods and services is effected shall be recognised as direct film production costs within the manufacturing period defined in the decision of the National Film Office as the authority granting entitlement to the aid and the invoice for performance shall be made no later than 3 months after the fixed end of the production period. The three-month deadline is currently unclear, which is why this amendment is necessary. In the course of cost control, the date of delivery of the product or service as part of the accepted budget for the production of films will be the standard. In contrast, in the current provision, the creation of the relevant account is the norm. Ladies and gentlemen, The provisions of the Motion Picture Act concerning the revenue of the National Film Office concerning the residual rules are also added. This year, it was necessary to establish rules on the revenue generated by the autonomous operation of the department of the National Media and Infocommunications Authority, which was taken over by the Cabinet Office of the Prime Minister. This is also included in the proposal. With regard to the Law on Simplified Employment, as the Secretary of State has explained, the definition of the film industry should be extended to include the extras included in the film works covered by the Copyright Act, so that the definition can be applied in future in films not covered by the Motion Picture Act, such as those included in advertising films, given the similarity of the activity. Due to the increased costs in the film industry, it is justified to modify the net income and public burden related to simplified employment of film-based stats that have not changed in recent years. This is therefore justified from the aspects I have described above, and the most important element of which is the existence of this pandemic, in order to help as many layers as possible. Now this law is for simplification and for workers who, as I said, live in this profession in Hungary to be in a more favourable position. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, On the basis of this, the Fidesz Group supports the proposed bill to a large extent, and this is what we propose to the Parliament. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-18-140	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the Jobbik Group is Mr Gergely Kálló, who is speaking here on the stand. We'll wait for the congressman to wake up on the stand. [[Mr. President, can't I tell you in my place?]] You're telling me where you're going? I have the script description. You have the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-18-141	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry, I wasn't told I had to go to the stand. Indeed, the law shows for the time being that there is transparency and simpler accounting, which is important in relation to Hungarian film production. But before I begin, let me also commend you, and I would like to pay my respects to those professionals who have recently made the Hungarian film a success. Indeed, the name Andy Vajna has to be mentioned, and it has an inexhaustible merit. The law itself serves transparency. We do not want to debate these, but since 2010 we have been maintaining a topic about Hungarian film production, which I would like to recreate here, and this is the production of Hungarian historical films. I am not a very old man, but I remember that the 1966 Honvaszállás film, of which Gábor Koltay was director, and István Nemeskürty was the screenwriter, did improve my historical consciousness, or did develop it. After that, the first Orbán government also had a very good practice, by trying to produce historical films each year that stood in place both professionally and in technology and in content. It was my great pleasure that the school principals at that time took us to them. Some were led by these films to be interested in Hungarian history. This was the movie Sacra Corona, or the movie Bridgeman itself, which I believe was an outstanding example of Hungarian filmmaking. If this is a Hungarian film or about the regulation of Hungarian films, please don't be angry, I will continue to represent the position that Jobbik has represented since 2010 and since its entry into Parliament, that Hungarian historical films must be given greater emphasis and greater support, either in order to be able to produce films that make Hungarian history digestible and enjoyable for young people every year. Let's face it, dry teaching sometimes derails young people in this, but the books of the modern age are movies, so they can help young people with their history. What subjects there are that are still waiting to be processed! Although many films have been created from 56 but I don't think you can talk enough about 56 and show enough aspects, or even make great films about the heroic struggles of the Raggyos Guard. If we look at Hollywood, the epic of filmmaking, we can see that they are not stingy about processing American history. What movies they make every year! [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes. Gergely Gergely harvesto turning to Lőrinc Nacsa: it's not the government doing it!]] I understand that, my fellow Member, but we can help you with that. If it's possible, let's do it. They don't build statues at the museum for people who don't even try. The other thing that was a bit backwards for me in the bill is artwork and the categorization of art films. I understand the government, and by the way, I hereby certify that some art cinemas sometimes go beyond the role of art, and they can play a political role, only this is a pro and it works against it. So I remember very clearly that the mainstream cinemas didn't want to introduce the Horseman or the movie Trianon, which was also directed by Gábor Koltay. In many cases, I myself have been able to organize with our friends, NGOs, to play these films in these arts. So I'm saying that I understand the intention that politics wants to get a little involved in the art theater, but let's try and versus apply it. I do not consider it fortunate, nor did I consider the left to be fortunate, nor do I consider it fortunate from the right to be the decision-making of art-class cinemas at ministerial level every year. I think that we can create a committee that examines independently, even annually, the classification of the Hungarian film profession. The other thing is that my fellow Members have said quite often that yes, tourism and filmmaking go hand in hand. They bring people, tourists, and when they bring news of Budapest's beauty to the world in connection with a production in Hollywood, they are all aging and helping to develop Hungarian tourism. I would like to think more seriously about the state's involvement in making it easier for foreign productions to be placed in Hungary. Let me give you an example. Here's the Danube Ironworks. The Danube Vasmű building has its romance. A lot of films could be filmed and even filmed in there, but a Hollywood production may not notice what opportunities there are, what ages can be presented there. In this state, I think it should be able to play a role that, if a foreign production comes here, it can present Hungary as widely as possible. The other one, perhaps this will be a bit, to say the least, backwards, but I think that Hungarian films do deserve a positive discrimination in relation to foreign productions. If you look at the cost and budget of an American blockbuster or a superfilm, then we are fooled by the Hungarian eye about the revenue generated by such a superproduction. I am not sure that I am worthy of the situation that if an American film group comes to Hungary, then the rents apply to it at about the same level as if we were shooting, say, a hundred percent Hungarian production in Budapest. I don't think that's proportionate. [[12.30]] So if we look at what budget an American film has and what financial resources are available, and what funds are available to Hungarian film production, then I do not think that it is fortunate. It is possible that a double tariff should be introduced for East Central European and Western or even American film productions. That's all I wanted to say for now. Thank you for the floor. [[It's a rare applause in the lines of the LMP.]]
u2020-11-18-142	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear House, Fellow Members! The lead speaker of the KDNP Group is Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-143	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr. Secretary. Hungary is a great cultural power, and in recent years Hungarian films have an increasingly important role in saying that Hungary is a great cultural power here in the Parliament. After all, Hungarian filmmaking, foreign productions in Hungarian locations are also part of this. In the years prior to the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, it was clear that the number of people interested in culture in Hungary was constantly increasing. According to Eurostat data, Hungarians spend a great deal on culture compared to other Member States of the European Union, an average of 2.1 percent of GDP, with which we can direct most EU Member States behind us. As a result of the work of the past few years, Hungarian films and the Hungarian film industry live in a golden age. I would also like to commemorate Andy Vajna as one of the greatest figures in the latest Hungarian film history, thank him for all he has done for Hungary and for the Hungarian film. Thanks to the 120-year-old Hungarian film production and film industry, the support system of the Hungarian National Film Fund established in 2011, the capacity of the film industry has tripled, and more and more outstanding, world-class creations have been created. The film Saul's son won the Oscar Award for the best foreign language film in 2016, which was not the case for Hungarian film for more than 30 years. In 2017, the film Everyone won the Oscar Award for the Best Living Short Film, and in recent years Hungarian films made in the new system of support received more than a hundred prestigious international awards. I think that both the new support system and the people working in the films deserve a big hat lift because they have won a hundred prestigious international awards. In addition to Hungarian productions, Hungary and not only Budapest have become the venue for many large volumes of American filmmaking and filmmaking. In addition to recognizing locations in Hungary in a number of successful American films, it is worth watching carefully at the end of the films, where in many cases many Hungarian names can be seen, as many foreign productions are also made in Hungarian film studios. The production of foreign film productions in Hungary and its production in Hungary is also important for the national economy, as besides the tax revenues from the shooting, these productions employ a number of Hungarian professionals. This allows talented Hungarian sound engineers, editors, image editors, cameramen, costume designers, set designers and many other employees to work on Hollywood and other international productions in Hungary. I would also like to respond partly to the suggestion of my better fellow Member. I agree with the great role that films with historical themes played, and my youth was greatly influenced by the films you quoted. I agree that it is our joint task to make large-scale historical films about the historical events in Hungary that have been unprocessed so far, and I think that this is the right and eligible direction, as we can see that there are many very, very good works behind us in the last 30 years. I would be more careful with the American parallel, because this year we saw that in many ways American historical films are blacklisted, banned in the captivity of all ideologies, such as the movie Blowing The Wind, were tried to be erased from everywhere, or John Wayne's famous American Western hero works and institutions bearing his name were also tried to change, but for example, Forrest Gump was banned. So I think we don't have to do everything about filmmaking there or the ideologies surrounding it, we have our own path, we have our own history, we have our own opinion on things, it's worth following. The aim of the bill before us is to further encourage the production of foreign productions in Hungary. The amendment allows for a uniform option of simplified taxation for foreign performers and crew members under the Motion Picture Act. The purpose of the amendment is also to allow performers and crew members involved in the film works to choose a simplified method of taxation even if for some reason the shooting takes longer and exceeds 183 days of stay in Hungary. The bill also extends the definition of the film industry extras to the extras included in the film works covered by the Copyright Act. As a result, the definition can also be applied to extras in films not covered by the Motion Picture Act, such as advertising films. The amendments to the bill contribute to the continued benefit of foreign film productions for Hungarian manufacturing and the use of Hungarian professionals and employees, all of this is a very important Hungarian interest in culture and the national economy. In view of this, the KDNP fraction supports the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr Gyula Molnár. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I take advantage of today's new Secretary of State for Boys, so I would like to express the general idea that we would like to share with the public in all matters in recent days, to share with the people involved in politics, to see and understand the intention of the government to manage the epidemic in some form, to maintain the health system and to maintain the functioning of the economy. We can see it well, we can sense the balance in this, and I said that, I think, perhaps one day; that they will be successful in this, and that we will only be able to judge it from a historical perspective. Now we see that most of them are losing. But in the meantime, we look at it as a shock and look at them going to some sort of a substitute act, and they're trying to dump a legislative tsunami on us that I understand the communication part of which is that everyone is doing their job in their own place, and that's the social aspect of what will happen to the unemployed, what will happen to those who have to stay home with their children, what will happen to those who are looking for a job now, what will happen to pensioners? So what we're trying to say is, as we understand it, you can see how cooperative we are in everything. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] In the meantime, it would be good to take care of others. I'm not going to add that now that Congressman Nacha... I'll agree with you on one thing, by the way, so don't be surprised, I don't want to do any harm to you in any way in your party. But then I'll bring two more things here quickly, because, after all, I have plenty of time, and that is, of course, to deal with how the municipal system can be stabbed in the leg, so they bring things that seem so small, and they communicate that there are reserves here, while you know exactly that the numbers you throw, the thousand billion-dollar reserves of the municipal system, actually do not exist, they are all committed money, and it is not true that if something is in the account, it can be considered to be freely used money. And then you brought a fifth thing here, this is really, I think, even your very wide and muscular shoulder will be a little too much, and this is the announcement of a global attack on the Union. I'll tell you the truth, it would be worth more to deal with what is the real problem, and this is clearly the epidemic. This is the situation in which this very important amendment of the law came to us. I would like to say, and here I will agree with a few soloists before me, or even with the pro-government representative and the secretary of state, that I think it is extremely important that this law was born in 2004, and it was indeed the intention and the aim of showing the world how, how, the kind of ability, the kind of opportunity Hungary has. And there are some break-out points in this country where, with a relatively small investment, just by showing ourselves to the world, we can achieve much, much more success. I note very quietly, I do not really want to express such deep political contexts today, that if you had spent the last ten years building a modern Hungary, that you would have looked at the industries in which this kind of intellectual capital, this kind of additional knowledge you always refer to, this Hungarian virtus can actually break the way, then we would not have become such a assembly plant today, where we are assembling products from various large multinational companies. But to get back to things: yes, it is a very right and very important thing. [[12.40]] I myself believe that this is a very serious breakout point, and if we have to do this either because of the epidemic or because the world has moved forward because the incomes have changed and the other procedures, then I think it is right that we should go on this path. And here's what I didn't really believe in the last decades that I would say, but yes, indeed, Andy Vajna has done a great deal for Hungarian cinema. But I would ask you with respect to note that it is not because you have received good instructions from the government; I would also say to Mr Kó. Because one thing we can do for the government is to help Hungarian cinema, to replace it in 22 and become an extra, and then they can perform in a lot of good films, so we can try to help in this form. I do not want this government, but in general governments are in some way trying to push the cart of Hungarian cinema at a very high speed. Do you know why Andy Vajna was good for the Hungarian film, and why was it good for all of this? Because he looked at this from the market side, he looked at it from the consumer's side; he did not look at it from the political side. By the way, if there is the market segment that Mr Kálló said, then he was able to satisfy it, and I think that is what this world is unfortunately about. You may not like this, you may think that you can control everything centrally, but I just have to make you sad, there are things that are going to unravel these frames. And by the way, if you are so committed to making this wonderful Hungarian cinema continue to be the way it is with these fantastic actors, then, for example, let us say, you could take your hands off the University of Dramatic Arts, so you could leave those people there, for example, to function according to their own rules, and, for example, this is the sphere, I can honestly say, this is the sphere where politics and government do not have to go so directly. We all have experiences. I'm a little older than you, so I tell you, I have this kind of experience, and I love it when I see it in the movie Evita, marching down the main street of Buenos Aires, Antonio Banderas and Madonna, and I see in the background the sign "Chème Company," and it always makes me so happy. I don't know, of course, that anyone in the world who watches this movie knows that we have it, but in the newer movies, I really do accept it, and I also hate to say that the intention that we started in 2004 really continued, and I say that this type of regulation is, and may be, necessary. I would like to make the point a little more explicit, as my good fellow Member explained in his exposé, that it is not quite clear why they put in this anyway, once again, in many ways the supervision of artwork, in other hands or in others, is correct in many ways. If you don't mind, Secretary of State, we do not trust your wallet so much that you are here the most anxious adherents of Hungarian culture and of the Hungarian people. Well, you're showing me the picture of a wallet that has quite serious lobbying interests in the direction that represents the interests of the governing party. Why couldn't you keep the approval of the artifact at the cultural wallet? Why do you think...? Now, it says here that it's going to be a new regulation, but it really looks like it's coming to you. So I'm really, honestly, with all due respect to you and the minister, obviously you've been to art school a lot, obviously you know exactly what that means, but why don't we just leave it where it is and where it really is? I just want to say this here as something that hurts my heart to say that, despite our good intentions, we are probably not going to support this kind of amendment. We are not saying that we reject it in principle, in its entirety, but I would just like to say that this has come into this law in a completely incomprehensible way. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-18-146	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the DK Group is Mr Gergely Arató. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-147	Let me begin by saying that I fundamentally agree with Mr Molnar, although I may not be so subtle. I would like to begin by saying that it is quite obvious that what you are doing right now is a supplementary act of a panic government. They did not prepare the country for the second round of the epidemic; they did nothing in the summer; health and education are on the verge of collapse, while unemployment is increasing, economic performance is falling; they have just extended the closure for another month. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] I must say, therefore, Mr House, it is quite obvious that you would have more important things to do now when you are dealing with a global epidemic. And what do you do instead? Instead, they are filling the Parliament with bill proposals, which are bill proposals that have only the function of dividing a little money here and there for friends. Because what is this bill about? We talked wonderfully about the Hungarian film here, and we are all great admirers of it. Now, this bill isn't about that. The sole purpose of this bill is to leave more money in the pocket of foreign film companies, and more importantly to you, your friends. The fact that this circle is quite clear shows the ordering of the many millions of HUF film to Antenna Hungária, where, that it is not, Árpád Habony's circle of friends appears in the background, and we know a lot of such stories. What's happening now? The taxpayers' pocket, because the unpaid tax, of course, is the taxpayers' money, although they are now trying to change this in the Fundamental Law, but this does not change the truth, leaving more money at advertising companies, which are truly not cultural institutions. They leave more money with film suppliers, a significant part of which is also linked to you in one way or another; and they also place art cinemas under the control of the propaganda industry. That is what is important to you now in times of crisis. That's important to you when thousands of people get infected every day and nearly 100 people die every day. I must say that this is a shame, this country, the desertion of voters. What are they supposed to do instead? Let me give you some advice if you can't do this on your own. Introducing the free and mass testing, which if they had done before, the epidemic would not have escaped, but it would not be too late to at least reduce the damage. They would extend the job search support and provide direct support to people who have lost their jobs. They would reboot the public wage bonus system, not only by 50 percent, and not just for the hosts and, of course, for the hotel owners, not just for the pals, but also for the economy as a whole, for the industry. They'd give immediate support to pensioners and families, and they'd really give people flu shots. The Prime Minister said you initiated this, but it's easy to give free flu shots without a flu shot. That would be your job. I understand that it is much more pleasant to give each other discounts, much more pleasant to put each other in a good financial position than to deal with the crisis, but that is not your job. At last, get sober and deal with what the government is doing at this time of year. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-18-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the LMP Group is László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-149	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Today, as well as yesterday, we have had a short, a few minutes, we can say that an off-the-record debate on whether or not the Parliament should operate, and how many and what legislative proposals are justified. We are on the principle that Parliament must, of course, function, there are many diverse tasks, the most important task, beyond the specific tasks of defence, which Parliament must perform. At the same time, we can see that there has indeed been a legislative act before this House, which, we can say, has nothing more than half to do with the specific tasks of defence. And, by the way, this is one of the things I think it is not necessarily justified to discuss. But I don't think that's the point at all. Obviously, today there will really be laws on which I think we will be forced to have a long political debate. I do not wish to repeat the thoughts that I fundamentally agree with, which have also been said by my fellow opposition and pro-government Members, that we can indeed be proud of the enormous successes of Hungarian filmmakers in the historical perspectives and of the reputation they have rightly acquired. And I agree perfectly with the enormous role of the Hungarian film profession and the Hungarian, very great, talented film professionals in bringing the country's reputation and the reputation of the nation to the world, this is extremely important. And obviously I also agree with what you said, Mr Kálló, that everything needs to be done at government level, so that we can allow the presentation and processing of such opportunities, such as historical topics, and obviously, on the part of the government, the task here is to ensure that funding conditions are provided for the various applications in order to be even politically involved in these. However, we are saddened to see that this bill is not necessarily about following this direction. We have our conviction, and that is, we can say that we have a sombre opinion on this proposal, that it is not necessary to support foreign films produced in Hungary, but to support Hungarian film production, so that Hungarian films can be successful both at home and abroad. We therefore have a very different view in this regard. On the subject of artwork, I agree with the Member before me, and I think that he has no business in this proposal as well. [[12.50]] So we will not be able to support this proposal in this way. And I would just like to point out one more thing: I was listening to Gergely Kálló's speech, and he also said some historical events on which it might be justified to support new films, and to contribute to their appearance. I stress that this is not a government, it is not a political task, it must be able to provide the right support background, a competitive background, and an institutional background. I would like to refer to one thing that is related to my narrower country, Pécs, Baranya and the Mecsek. I have already talked about a story recently about 1956, a series of real exemplary acts, which, unfortunately, very few people, undeservingly know about, this is the story of the Mecsek Invisibles. I think that very few people have still heard that they were the freedom fighting group that lasted the longest in the country, and even after the repression of the revolution, the fight for freedom, they lasted for weeks and fought partisans in the forests of the Mecsek. Not that long ago, Cs. Sándor Nagy started a work together with Zsófia Sashegyi, documentary filmmaker, trying to make a documentary about this very, very important historical event and a series of events that we can all be proud of, not just Baranya. They applied for the National Film Fund, the National Cultural Fund, the National Film Institute, and they were rejected everywhere, they were not supported to make this very important, missing documentary film. Then they tried later when they saw an invitation to tender to receive support for such a historical feature film. That didn't work either. The work has been started from its own sources, but it is obvious that in order for such a work to be completed, we need sources of support. So they did some sort of collection. I think it also shows that there is still something to be done in terms of the fact that such valuable works are indeed, and those filmworks that could really present an episode of our history that is known or forgotten by a few, unfortunately, are extremely important. So on these issues, I think I can say that we agree, and in other respects I agree with my fellow opposition Members, so that we will not support this proposal because of the differences in principle already mentioned. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-18-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. I ask my fellow Members, who else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no signal.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. Now I'm gonna ask you... [[Gergely Kálló: Yes! Gergely Harvestó points to Gergely Kálló: Yes, him! Gergely Kálló: I've signaled!]] I'm sorry. He appeared later, Congressman, with the push-button. When I closed it, his name wasn't up yet. So I'm done, Congressman. So the general debate is closed. I would like to ask the rapporteur, Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, if he would like to respond to what was said in the debate. [[On the signal of Csaba Dömötör:]] Here you go.
u2020-11-18-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We've touched on a lot of topics. I'm used to speeches before the agenda, including party political aspects. [[Gergely Harvesto: This is Parliament!]] I think there's room everywhere, by the way. I was preparing for a policy debate, but I am trying to respond to something else. Let me begin with the role of Andy Vajna. I have listened with interest to these opinions, so they recognize his professional activity. Well, let's just say for the record that this wasn't always the case. For example, your party's view was that it did not help Hungary's judgment; . offshore terminator was called consistently; they wondered when they could say that Hasta la vista, Andy! And they also said that Jobbik said that people like you shouldn't be in the media industry. That was your official position. [[Turning to MSZP:]] You, as those who now praise Andy Vajna, have said that he is the most harmful economic wanderer. That was your position. I must say that one of the very serious burdens of Hungarian public life is that such a respected professional must die in order to gain recognition from opposition parliamentary parties. But I think it's a serious development that at least they're doing it now. He has contributed much to the development of the Hungarian film industry. As far as the right speech is concerned, I agree with the suggestion that there should be as many historical films as possible, but if you say that nothing has happened in recent years, it will not stand the test of reality. A lot of award-winning works have historical themes. The other issue is that we all have different expectations of what the historical theme should be, but the works Grey Nobody, Tiny Tales, Eternal Winter were historical. However, we do not say that the amount of these historical films is sufficient, we would like to see as much as possible, but this is primarily the job of the creators. By the way, the basic purpose of the Film Institute is to make more historical films. And if I may say another aspect: one thing is to make a movie supported by a state, and another is to have the opportunity to see it. And from this point of view, the launch of the Filmio platform tomorrow is of great importance, because not only will the state support a Hungarian work, or a historical work, but you will have much more opportunity to see it, you will not be bound to see it on the television channel or not. I think it's a step forward, and I hope you agree with that. I also agree that Hungarian filmmakers should be allowed more space. As far as the MSZP speech is concerned, I would only respond briefly to the interventions on the epidemic. What I see is that you have to tell me this everywhere. We're talking about the social dimension, aren't we? However, the most important social aspect of combating an epidemic is that it manages to protect jobs [[Gergely Harvesto: Did you manage?]] and this government has already proven itself in its current approach. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] To the question that you asked, honourable Member, let me tell you the fact that when you were in government, unemployment was 12 percent, this government reduced it to less than 4 percent. (Lőrinc Nacsa: That's right!) We are in this lane right now, and the approach that the government has been working on is to reduce taxes, not to strengthen the relief system, as you would like us to do, has presented its results, and we would like to continue on this path after the outbreak. Your approach was wrong because it became 12 percent unemployment, and the government's approach proved its viability. And where was this social sensitivity when foreign currency lending was unleashed on the country? [[It was the Fidesz, dear congressman. It was during the government of Viktor Orbán!]] This government is still the one who decided on a moratorium. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Who tilted the forint? The president's ringing the bell.]] and extended it. As far as municipalities are concerned, I see the explanation, the finger pointing, especially from the capital, that they don't have enough money. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Cser-Palkovics!]] And they're already tied up. Now hold on, in an epidemic period, each municipality and most of all the government must touch its plans so far, because the epidemic has upset many things. The budget figures wouldn't be that way if there wasn't an epidemic. You may have noticed that there is an epidemiological fund and an economic security fund. And while we see the finger pointing, the Metropolitan Government does not want to touch its plans so far and does not want to sacrifice to protect against the epidemic, while it is sitting on the largest amount of Hungarian municipalities. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] We take note of this decision, but if they decide to do so, then don't pin it all on the government, and don't let their epidemiological action be carried out alone. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Cser-Palkovics!]] That they're moping on Facebook and sometimes explaining and pointing fingers at the ATV studio. As to the question of who the subsidies are for: sometimes I have the impression that you have the fundamental problem of receiving support from people who do not necessarily think of the world as you do. But let me give you an example: there is an international award-winning artist who also told the camera a few days ago that he received a billion forints for only one of his films. Where did he do it? An anti-government protest. So much for the government's support. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] It's not a matter of world view, it's not a matter of politics, but I can see that you have a problem if you get support from someone who doesn't think the same thing about the world. I would like to say to Mr harvester: please see that the government has indeed extended the restrictive measures. I've seen false news come down on this, they don't stand the test of reality. [[Gergely Arató: We'll see... Intercom from the opposition: Tomorrow?]] The Government has extended the exceptional legal framework, but this does not apply to measures that are in force until 11 December. Now I don't know whether you couldn't look into it or continue to do what you've always done in the last few months, spread false news here in this Chamber, both unacceptable. [[13.00]] [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] I can say the same for your points about unemployment: in your time it was 12 percent, and now it has been reduced to less than 4 percent, and we will keep it in this band. As for art theaters, the system doesn't change. There have been so many changes, thanks to a previous decision, that the National Film Office as an authority belongs to the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office, and it is therefore justified that the powers of authority in relation to the artworks should not be with the EMMI as before, but with the Cabinet Office. This is a technical amendment. To raise the concerns of the government's support for foreign productions, please take a look at the fact that there are plenty of Hungarian professionals in the case of foreign productions. So when a foreign production comes here, which, as Congressman Molnár pointed out, is presented in many countries of the world, it also provides a livelihood for Hungarian people. So if I had to find a common element in the many proposals that are now on the agenda, it is that, while we want to protect people's lives, we also want to protect their jobs, and this proposal also has a role in protecting jobs. With regard to the LMP suggestion, let me tell you that you made a suggestion about a story in Pécs. I think they're important. Let me tell you one thing: if you make such a suggestion, say, on behalf of the LMP, I will not consider it an LMP propaganda simply because you did it. Even if you have this respect for us, if we took a similar initiative, you wouldn't give it to us. I think that as many historical and local stories as possible are needed in order to have high-quality scenarios and better films. Which is how they put it? As regards their position on the legislative tsunami, it is nothing more than a great remorse, the remorse that you made a false campaign of news months ago that you would not meet with Parliament. Compared to this lie, I understand that it is unpleasant to face the fact that the Hungarian Parliament continued its work. He continues his work, yes, the government puts laws on the table, yes, they have to work, they can't afford to leave, as they do from time to time, but in these billings, [[Gergely Arato: You're the ones who march out all the time... the president's ringing the bell.]] a common element, honourable Member, you will find: it is for the protection of jobs. So much for your basically political concerns. As far as the bill itself is concerned, I am pleased that, despite all other political overtones, you may not find the debate on the bill useless, so I felt. I would also like to add that it is justified to deal with such laws because when we say that every life counts, we also think about jobs, it is part of life. Fortunately, the Hungarian film industry has given work to more and more Hungarian people in recent years, and we would like this process to continue after the epidemic period. I am also very pleased that the serious results of the Hungarian film have not been disputed in recent years. So I also feel a little bit that they didn't deal with professional aspects because they couldn't get them out of the way quite simply, while in previous years, when we brought in these billings, you said it wouldn't work. And now there are countless international recognitions and economic data that show that the new film framework has stood the test of time, and that is the way we want to go. All in all, I would like to thank you for your comments. Despite differences in professional and political opinion, we can perhaps agree that the film industry is a strategic sector and it is in our common interest that Hungarian film should take further levels in terms of both economic and cultural strength. The proposal under discussion serves this well. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-152	I thank the Secretary of State for his answers. Dear Parliament, The amendments may be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, There will be a general debate on the proposal to amend certain electoral laws until closure. The government referral is T/13679. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. First, I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, Deputy Minister, author of the item on the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The proposal submitted is the election of the Members of Parliament for 2018, the practical experience of the election of local government representatives and mayors in 2019 and the Constitutional Court 22-2020. It contains amendments which have become necessary as a result of its decision, the backbone of which is the legislative proposals which the National Election Office has formulated for the parliamentary parties. Thus, the law on the election of local government representatives and mayors, the rights of nationalities, the election of Members of Parliament, the Parliament, the electoral procedure, the initiative of the referendum, the European citizens' initiative, the referendum procedure and the transparency of the campaign costs of the election of Members of Parliament are amended. First of all, it is appropriate to mention the most critical element of the proposal on the left, which, at the same time, has been included in the proposal in the light of the signals received from them. According to the government, in order to reduce abuse of the institution system of campaign funding, it is important to make an amendment that, on the basis of the proposal, 50 individual candidates would be needed to set up the national list instead of 27 candidates. Given the need to collect 500 valid recommendations for an individual candidate, this means that 25 000 valid recommendations are needed for listing, which should not constitute an obstacle for parties with real social support for nearly 8 million voters, while at the same time eliminating the formations whose departure is merely intended to launch candidates, misuse of electoral rules, in order to obtain electoral support. With regard to the non-social dwarf parties, the State Audit Office's report also found that the state support for some nominating organisations after the list was not exclusively intended to finance expenditure during the election campaign period. This is also important because the amounts not repaid as a result of campaign funding are significant and several parties have asked for action to be taken in the past. The regulatory guarantee is the rule in force that if the number of individual candidates of a nominating organisation with a list falls below 50, the list should be deleted. In addition, the proposal regulates in more detail that the ballot counting committees of the increased number of voters in the event of a transfer operate in a larger number, whether divided into subcommittees, in one location, but in several rooms. This is because, as you remember, in 2018 some electoral districts developed long lines due to the transfer. The proposal addresses the problems and legitimate criticisms that have arisen in this respect by making the legislation on the establishment of designated electoral districts more flexible and by giving the electoral director as much opportunity as possible to organise a vote without disruption. Thus, if the number of voters is more than 1,500 in a single electoral district, it is possible, and if it is more than 2000, it is mandatory to vote according to one of the following two solutions: the ballot counting committee carries out the vote in one room, but at several tables, this is the current standard solution, or voters must be voted in more than 10 to 20 separate rooms within the same building. The provision of the draft which amends the deadline for the transfer from the fourth day before the vote to the ninth day before the vote should also be highlighted, thus providing the election offices with a longer period of preparation to carry out the vote without problems. Thus, the head of the local electoral office has time to decide at the latest on the fifth day before the vote to divide the electoral register into several parts. It is important to point out that the proposal makes the total amount of the increased fee conditional upon participation in order to facilitate the quorum of the National Election Committee and provides for the possibility for the National Election Committee to hold a meeting with the use of an electronic means of communication, which is also a guarantee for the functioning of the Committee. It should be pointed out here that the proposal protects the stability of the order of business of the National Electoral Commission in the year of the election of Members of Parliament and Members of the European Parliament, as the number of members of Parliament may not be changed until the decision setting out the national electoral list results becomes legal, since the number of members of the nominating organisations setting up the national list is significantly increased. [[13.10]] In this context, it can be mentioned that the proposal would strengthen the role of the President of the Election Committee in preparing the Commission's decisions in the technical context and provide a guarantee that, after rejecting the prepared proposals, the President and the Secretariat will have a reasonable time-frame for the precise drafting of the decision proposal in line with the majority position. Dear House, Turning to the further rules of the electoral procedure, the proposal clarifies which provisions should be applied in case of repeated voting, since there is no consensus on this at present in practice. The proposal states that, in the event of a repetition of the vote, the ballot counting committee may be replaced, and that candidates and organisations entitled to delegation may also delegate members to a ballot counting committee in which they were not delegated at all or less than they were entitled to a delegated member. The proposal also provides for the possibility of campaigning between the two votes and makes it clear that candidates and nominating organisations may request registration. The proposal also states, in the light of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights in the case of the Hungarian Two-tailed Dog Party v Hungary, that it does not prejudice the secrecy of voting if the voter takes a picture of the ballot paper for private purposes. Dear Parliament, The proposal also amends the rules on local government nomination in the law on the election of local government representatives and mayors. The text of legislation could now be explained purely by grammatical, literal interpretation in such a way as to allow a candidate to run parallel in several counties. However, in the event of multiple elections, this would result in the possibility of representing at the same time the voters in conflict of interest, or of being represented in two places, which, due to the geographical distance, would obviously not be able to perform their duties properly in both places. Therefore, the purpose of the amendment is to ensure that the correct report, which has taken into account the taxonomic interpretation so far, is that only a candidate can be nominated in one county, and that it is now clear from the text of the legislation with a grammatical interpretation. With regard to the amendment of the national minority rights law, the decision-making obligation of the body of representatives and the general assembly of the national minority self-government in relation to the resignation has ceased, and it is therefore necessary to provide for the information of the Election Committee on the vacant seat. In addition, it should be pointed out that if the national government does not have the necessary cover for the costs of preparing and conducting an interim election in the event of dissolution or dissolution, the costs will in future be advanced by the central budget, taking into account the fact that the national government will receive support from the central budget. Dear House, It is also important that the parliamentary law clarifies the immunity of candidates. The current legislation states that candidates for Members of Parliament have immunity and that the candidate quality will be terminated by election. However, the regulation is not complete with regard to unelected candidates, as has been said, while the candidate quality for individual candidates ceases with the election, not with the candidates on the list. The list candidates who have not obtained the mandate will remain on the list, and later, when a list of mandates is vacant, they can still obtain a mandate, so their candidate quality will not actually cease. However, the maintenance of immunity for this period is not justified, because of the large number of candidates, the list marking may be suitable for abusive use. The proposal therefore clearly sets out, in line with the existing case law, an increase in the electoral result as the final deadline for the immunity of candidates for elections. Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Court 22-2020. In its decision, it annulled, with effect from 30 June 2021, the provisions of the Referendum Act on fines for signature collection sheets. The proposal addresses this problem by reducing the amount of the fine per sheet from HUF 1000 to HUF 800 and setting a ceiling. It states that in the case of sheets with no signature returned within 15 days of the deadline, the fine shall not be payable or that the fine may be paid in 24 monthly instalments. It also concerns the referendum law that, according to the current rules, the National Election Committee will assess matters within 30 days, but where appropriate, the effective period of assessment is only 10-15 days due to parallel cases. However, on the basis of established case-law, the National Electoral Commission has to examine all possible grounds for refusal and the proposal therefore increases the deadline for the National Election Committee from 30 to 60 days. Thank you for your attention, and I ask this House to support the bill.
u2020-11-18-154	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, The speeches will now be held by the keynote speaker. I give the floor to Mr Csaba Hende, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, the vice-president of the Parliament, the chairman of the Legislative Committee. Mr. President, please.
u2020-11-18-155	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In front of us lies T/13679. Act amending individual electoral laws. The question arises often, especially from the other benches, why and why it is necessary to apply the rules of the elections in Hungary now to the reasons for all this. We are also hearing completely misleading opinions that, in times of emergency, in the special legal order, we should not be dealing with such matters, but only issues dealing with the eradication of the health or economic effects of the epidemic. On the contrary, Honourable Parliament. The point of the emergency is that, with our vote last week, which was almost unanimous, the Parliament has given the government powers over legislative matters related to the pandemic for a period of a little less than 90 days ahead of us, who can form regulations in these legislative matters. All the issues that are not closely covered by the treatment of the pandemic must, of course, be resolved unchanged, matters must go further, and Parliament has unchanged powers here. So it's the other way around, as some people say from the other side. Dear House, Since the first free elections, the Hungarian electoral system has been characterised by a degree of democratic regulation that ensures the general, equal, secret and direct exercise of suffrage in all respects for all voters. Of course, recently there are attractive proposals that would limit the scope of suffrage, and that would link the exercise of active suffrage, for example, to writing and reading knowledge. This would open a very dangerous door, since it would violate equality of civil rights, and it is not at all a condition for deciding matters, for taking a position on political issues, although there is no harm in being educated. With regard to electoral legislation, there has always been a fundamental social need for a voter to be sure that his vote can make a substantial contribution to the results of the elections. We can see that in some of the world's great democracies there is indeed an election system in which this social need is not always fully realised, because the procedural system is not shaped by the problems encountered in practice, based on experience, or it is not in the interest of certain political forces to establish a fair system. However, this is not the Hungarian electoral system. Each provision of the proposal seeks to address the problems encountered in previous electoral periods and to reflect current social needs. As a result, the election of the Members of Parliament for 2018 and the practical experience of the election of local government representatives and mayors in 2019, as well as the Constitutional Court 22-2020. The amendments contained in the proposal submitted are justified by the wording and incorporation of the amendments in our legal system. [[13.20]] There is a pleasant summer memory here: we were together with some of the people in the room, including Tamás Harangozó, on a beautiful morning in August in the National Election Office, where we discussed the issues of the further development of suffrage. My fellow Member Bellozó there, if I recall correctly, but nod that he rightly remembers, said something that the Parliament has failed to fulfil its legislative tasks many times since 2010, despite the calls of the Constitutional Court. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: He doesn't do it now, but I'll talk to you later.]] Good, good, good. Congressman! I would like to spare you further mistakes in this regard, if you will allow me to do so. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: No!]] You won't allow it? It's okay if you don't let me, I'll tell you what I want to say. On the basis of decisions taken by the Constitutional Court after the entry into force of the Fundamental Law on 1 January 2012, all omissions are justified by 39 legislative amendments and legislative amendments, all of which have been complied with and are fulfilled by this Act by the Parliament [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: How can the Chairman of the Legislative Committee say such a thing?! How can you say that? The president's ringing the bell.]] It's true that 13 pieces are late. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] In comparison, I would like to say, Honourable Parliament, [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: This is unbelievable!]] that between 2002 and 2010, when you were ruling, Congressman, my dear fellow Member, and please calm down, because I didn't say anything offensive, I just think... [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: You're lying!]] Thank you very much for your rating, but I'm still telling you the truth. So there were a total of 39 omissions that were replaced and performed by the then majority, the then Parliament, out of a total of 64 omissions. So, if we count correctly, 25 of them committed default constitutional violations, of which, after 2010, we had to make up for a number of them just for the sake of the truth. Of course, if you have other numbers, let's discuss them in pieces. I see from your metacommunication that this will come to pass, we'll be happy to take it. In any case, this bill before us places another pipe in this list, i.e. 22-2020. implementing a decision of the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, The most echoive provision of the draft so far is CCIII of 2011 on the election of Members of Parliament. Law 8. § 1 amendment of paragraph 1 which reads as follows: "A party list may be set by a party that has nominated candidates in at least nine counties and in the capital for at least fifty single mandate constituencies. In the past, it was enough in 27 single mandate constituencies to appoint a single candidate for a party to set up a party list, a national list. However, with this regulation, a number of dwarfs with no real social support, but they can also be called fake parties, to use a slightly more fashionable term nowadays, abused, and did not use the state support for listing at all, but especially for legal, legal funding during the election campaign period. Billions have flown out of the state register. The State Audit Office also pointed out this in a separate report and identified these abuses. However, by setting up 50 individual candidates as a condition for setting up the national list, it will be ensured that only parties with real social support can set up a national list and, on the other hand, it will give rise to action against nominating organisations whose sole purpose is to take advantage of electoral financial support by abusing the right of electoral rules. I would like to point out that, taking into account the comments made by the parliamentary opposition parties, we have the text of the proposal in this form, because the government has drawn the conclusion that the opposition has made the most loudly, that it would take stricter requirements than the start-up to receive campaign support. Campaign funding rules, as I said, currently provide opportunities for a number of abuses. This amendment is intended to support only those parties who can appoint candidates in at least 50 individual constituencies. A further guarantee of regulation is that if the number of individual candidates of a nominating organisation with a list falls below 50, the list should be deleted. I would therefore stress that it is justified and necessary to amend the electoral law, and this does not affect at all the possibility of bringing together the left-wing opposition. I would like to remind you that two days ago, the highly respected left-wing opposition, from Jobbik to the Dwarf Party Dialogue, announced that it would make a common list in the spring of 2022. However, the proposal also allows [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] As previously envisaged, they could set up two separate national lists with the intention of keeping the joint individual candidates also announced. So I think that the current opposition can be taken seriously, in any way, in any way that it can compete with the current governing parties and continue to fight for elections, but it does not prevent or hinder this new rule, especially if we consider that, while the current law is in force, it has already been stated that if it breaks, if it breaks, they will still have a common list. I do not understand what bothers some people, what is this noise in Parliament as well as in the press, because this is, however, a completely consistent amendment to your intentions if we look at it rigorously and fairly. Dear House, In addition to what has been said, it is worth briefly pointing out further points in the bill. Mr Secretary of State presented in detail the objectives of the draft in his exposé, and I would just like to highlight a few essential elements here at the plenary session. The proposal also settles some of the issues of immunity. There was an actuality of this during the period behind us, and I fear that it will also be in the period ahead. Under the current rules, candidates for Members of Parliament continue to have immunity, but the candidate quality ceases to be elected. In the case of unelected individual and list candidates, however, the regulation is incomplete and incomplete: while the former, i.e. the individual candidates, the candidate's quality is eliminated by the election, the list candidates who have obtained the mandate remain on the list, and can obtain a mandate later or when a list seat is vacant, i.e. the candidate's quality does not actually cease in this sense. However, maintaining immunity in this way will provide an opportunity for its abusive application during this period, and the draft law therefore makes a very forward-looking statement that the immunity of candidate candidates will be abolished at the same time as the election result becomes legal. Dear House, There is no consensus in domestic legislation that if only the vote is repeated, then which standards should be applied and which should not be applied. Therefore, the draft law rightly states that during the repetition of the vote, the ballot counting committee may be replaced, and candidates and organisations entitled to delegation may also delegate members to a ballot counting committee in which we did not delegate at all during the repeated vote. [[13.30]] This clearly strengthens transparency, and another guarantee of the rule of law in our electoral system, which is why I highlight it in my speech. If only a part of the electoral districts repeats the vote and a list or candidate is eliminated in the meantime, the votes cast in the electoral districts not affected by the repetition on the day of the original vote shall be deemed invalid on the day of the original vote. I hope you've been able to follow him. Following previous elections, the issue of standing in front of the polling stations was a criticism. This has annoyed many voters and Hungarians who wish to live with their suffrage. In order to avoid this in the future, the regulation of the design of the designated electoral districts should be made more flexible, in that it is appropriate to provide for a longer period of preparation by amending the deadline for receipt of the request for transfer. In this way, the election office will be able to manage a barrier-free vote. There was also an unsettled question, which has already been mentioned by the Secretary of State, about what if the voter is recording for private purposes. Well, that will be allowed. In the same way, I would like to say that the 22-2020 Constitutional Court decision settles the issue of fines for signature collection lists. On this basis, I support the bill on behalf of the Fidesz Group, and I ask you to do the same. Thank you very much for your attention. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-11-18-156	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-157	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that I learned from the previous speeches that Fidesz-KDNP is the Grail Knight of political life and carries them up above... they are full of sublime things, because, as we have learned, only the opposition's proposals are taken into account, they include things more favourable to the opposition in the new electoral law. Well, these are really nice words, but I wonder why it is that if we have any proposal for any bill, then it is constantly swept down, without any investigation, not allowed to come to plenary, but the opposition bill will be swept down at Commission level, never, in any way accepted; and now we hear that this is also proposed by the opposition, and that is also because of the opposition, and that is also why we have brought it, and that is why we have brought it. Well, we just don't see it. I don't want you to tell us what's right for us and what we want, because we can say it, and opposition parties can say what's right for us and what's wrong for us. And what we have already seen from Fidesz-KDNP and Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is that, indeed, during the elections, the Fidesz-KDNPs and the KDNPs were also real Grail knights, and they always liked this form, that if equal careers, equal chances would prevail. Well, we've seen it all the time in public life, because it's not a coincidence that there's a huge media predicament of government parties, and you can only keep hearing the lies from the public media that the governing party is ordering from them. I refer here to the continued use of slanderous campaigns against leading opposition politicians during the elections. The character killings here didn't keep them from getting cold feet. So, for example, don't go too far, there was an interim election in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county, here from you gentlemen, Fidesz-KDNP, there was nothing else to hear but filth about László Bíró's person, which was also said in series. And you didn't care that the court said that what you said wasn't true, that you said it back then, and that's what they kept saying to their media. But they did the same thing to Béla Kovács, whom the court has already ruled on, although it is not yet definitive that he has not performed any spy activity; but also in connection with Gábor Vona's character murder on an ongoing basis. So they play the real Grail knights in everything here, too. Obviously, it's equal orbits, equal chances, and that's your motto here, too. Here is the question of Hungarians across the border, who you are travelling by bus during the elections, when the Minister of Interior decrees that the borders must be interoperable on the election day, so that you can transport tens of thousands of buses to vote for Hungarians across the border. Obviously, this includes:., equal orbits, equal odds. You've obviously never heard of people being assigned to retirement homes who tell you how to vote. You've obviously never heard of public workers showing photos on their smartphones, how they voted, and there won't be a job the next day, who didn't vote the way he was supposed to. Obviously, they have never heard of such things as the use of certain layers of gypsyism at the expense of serious material things, or the cost of potatoing, for example, where to place their votes. Obviously, this has never happened in Hungary. Then, obviously, church communities are not influenced, or through their leaders they have no influence on how to vote, nor have any of them ever heard of the Kubatov list. And it is also quite obvious that there is a very fair Prime Minister's debate at every parliamentary election, when the prime ministers do stand up and clash their positions, crash their programmes. Obviously, you're always part of this fair and square, because you know that you have the truth, you have the glory. There are the government billions that are constantly being spent to promote the government. They're obviously trying to promote Fidesz-KDNP, and they're spending an awful lot of money on it. And there is also Viktor Orbán, who regularly test himself in individuality in these elections. So these are the smallest maladministrations that we can list here, which have been in recent years, and obviously the current change suggests that they want to move in this direction, the Grail Knights of political life want to remain as they have done. But will there be any change? Well, there's been a change since we found out that we wanted to be on a list. Csaba Hende told me this now, and if he knows, then it's obviously true. How we think doesn't matter anymore. And obviously they want to join this alleged opposition demand right away, and they will accept it at that moment. Okay, well, then, why do we need more national lists, just two in Hungary, enough, because obviously it is in your interest to have a two-pole system, to choose between people: Orbán or Gyurcsány. This is what you always wanted, and this is what the Hungarian elections are about, and they are trying to make everything subject to it. There were also Grail knights when the constituencies were formed at the time, as we were speaking to my fellow Member, Tamás Gaudi-Nagy, about this injustice, which János Lázár then replied to us with a smile, and it seems that our experts worked very well, if you do not like it so much. Well, obviously, there are; this proves that everything works perfectly. It's a question of party lists. You say that parties with real social support should only enter through the national list and that parties without real social support should be excluded. You are therefore not interested in parties of local interest, parties of regional interest, which might be able to present their programme. Let's say I'm from North-East Hungary, and I'm talking about it in principle only if someone wants to represent it at regional level. [[Dr. Pál Völner: The Jobbik Regional Party?]] What exists in countless countries cannot bring it to Parliament because it cannot launch candidates in the capital and half of the constituency, and you will exclude these people from having a national list. I think that this regulation is even against the Fundamental Law of Hungary, because you exclude a number of political forces from your ability to enforce claims, from hearing your voice in the Parliament, who, by the way, should not be excluded. Obviously, if you really had made this rule for the purpose of what you are saying, which of course is not true, then it could have been resolved in a completely different way, because obviously, if we were talking about party financing, how we were going to fund the party in the elections, we would have had to touch party financing, not double the number of people who can now make a national list. So obviously that's not what your intention was about, and obviously they're not telling the truth now, as we've been getting used to. Thus, unfortunately, local interests and regional interests can no longer enter the Hungarian Parliament. [[13.40]] Then the other question, which shocked us all, is why you are introducing this electoral law when the pandemic, the epidemic, is just as bad as it gets. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] It arrives, it arrives, you announce that there is an extraordinary legal order in Hungary, and this bill will be submitted that night. Well, that's really the most important thing to talk about right now. And I'm gonna ask you how many times you're gonna change the election law. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Can be modified until December 31!]] Because the experience is that as time passes, as your public opinion research companies measure something, and in your interest, you will always have to make a difference, you will always touch this system, and you will change the electoral law, the rule of electoral procedure, as it is in your best interest; you will obviously be able to do so, and you will, unfortunately, do so. Well, that includes you being the Grail Knights of political life. Then we were pleased that we would have liked it if you had also touched on the possibility of voting for the letter of foreign workers, because this was also opened by the bill, and not by this, but also dealt with the letter vote in this regard. Wow, I was beginning to be glad that now, perhaps, Hungarian citizens will be equal in this too, and you will not distinguish between who lives where. But obviously, the Grail Knights of political life could not be expected to do so, as they know very well that Hungarians across the border will vote for you. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Because you betrayed them!]] Hungarians working across the border, but from Csonka-Hungary, who are working abroad, who will not vote for you, at least to a very large extent, will not vote for you, so they are very much excluded from the possibility of voting. Out of the hundreds, 700 to 800 thousand people, a few thousand, possibly ten to twenty thousand, can vote, who can exercise their voting rights. Yes, we have said that problem several times here in the Hungarian Parliament, and István Szávay, who was my fellow Member, has referred to the fact that when two Hungarians work in London, they live together in a sublet because they rent it together, they work as guest workers, and the parliamentary election is coming in Hungary, one can send his vote in a letter, and the other has to go to the embassy or come home; the embassy, if he is in London, does not have a problem yet, but he may have to travel from 500 to 600 to 800 kilometers if he is working in another settlement, and sometimes there are rows of kilometers in front of an embassy. This makes it difficult, and these people don't usually go to the vote. This also shows that they are not willing to touch this, nor are they willing to change that. Then the legislation on the initiative of a referendum is amended, which is mainly about the imposition of a fine. We would have preferred that this be changed so that a referendum could finally be held in Hungary. It was you who enabled the institution of the referendum de jure, and in practice did not allow it to be removed when the limit of validity was doubled. Well, it's a bit of a downside, so to speak, this ice cream licked back when you initiated a referendum on migrants, and even in a case like this, you couldn't hold the referendum validly, because you deliberately set the bar so high that this principle of popular sovereignty, and its element, is completely excluded in your exercise of power, so that they can't bother you in any way. Obviously, they've done this, well, they're not touching it here either, and I think that's also necessary. Then you will raise the honor fee of the members of the National Election Committee and the president of the National Election Committee, 20% of the former, and 40% of the latter. There is no problem with this, because, I think, inflation has been in force for almost ten years or eight years, real value declines and real pay declines are also taken into account. I have only one problem with this, namely that the fees of these members and of their officials are linked to the salary of the civil service officials at all times. And I'm gonna ask you with all due respect, didn't the public service officials have an inflection over the last few years, shouldn't they have raised the salary? Then it wouldn't have been a problem, and it would be a proportional increase in everyone's wages. I would have thought that was important. Then I am stunned by the amendment which is the Act on Election Procedure 186. It would add a paragraph 3 which reads: "It does not prejudice the secrecy of the vote if the voter takes a picture of the ballot paper for private purposes. Well, it's about what I was talking about before, when some people expect the citizen to demonstrate how he voted, because, for example, he can only keep his job. This happens most often in the case of public workers, when they can go to work on Monday, I suppose they've never heard of such a thing before; well, I've heard more than that. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You can tell, you know very well!]] Paragraph 1 which reads:. It does not prejudice the secrecy of voting if the voter takes a picture of the ballot paper for private purposes. Well, it's about what I was talking about before, when some people expect the citizen to demonstrate how he voted, because, for example, he can only keep his job. This happens most often in the case of public workers, when they can go to work on Monday, I think they've never heard of such a thing before; well, I've heard more (Lőrinc Nacsa: You can see it, you know it very well!) Who shows his ballot on his smartphone, how he voted, who did side with the yes, he can stay. Well, obviously this has to be legalized, and we need to make it legal so that they can take a picture of it and show that, yes, they voted for it, and that it can influence people's opinions. I am very sorry for this, because there are a number of positives in this draft legislation because there are some positives, and indeed, this could go towards the simplicity of the conduct of the election, but the problem is that you always drop the atomic bombs, lay down the landmines, which are obviously constantly and always directed against the opposition. Obviously, we can never expect you to have a electoral law that would make the election more correct, which would actually prevail during the elections, the principle of equal careers, equal opportunities; you cannot and will not dare to take off in such an election. I hope that there will be a change in this, and we will be able to change that in the future. Thank you very much for your kind attention.
u2020-11-18-158	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, the lead speaker of the KDNP Group, the chairman of the Justice Committee. Here you go, Mr. President.
u2020-11-18-159	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, In the midst of the pandemic, it is also important that we maintain the country's viability, and that I stress this in relation to Csaba Gyüre's speech, and that it is also important to emphasise that Parliament should meet continuously and continue its legislative work, and we consider it extremely important. As part of this, the Minister of Justice presented the T/13679 on the amendment of electoral laws. Bill No. 1. Ladies and Gentlemen, The government has tabled this amendment against the fake parties. If the left parties with the opposition group are not fake parties, they should vote for this bill and not criticize it. [[Interventions and publicity in the opposition.]] However, the left-wing parties went straight to attack instead of supporting the bill. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] In essence, as soon as the Minister of Justice submitted the bill, the left-wing mood was immediately set in motion with regard to the legislative amendment against the fake parties. However, the bill is clearly aimed at preventing fake parties from starting, preventing national lists from being made only by the parties who would set up at least 50 individual candidates in 106 individual constituencies. We believe that all good people agree that it is in the interest of the society as a whole to reduce the parties that are running for campaign support in the election, and we do not understand why left-wing parties disagree with this. We believe that out of 106 individual constituencies, 50 individual candidates are sufficient guarantees that a party is serious about running for parliamentary elections. Ladies and Gentlemen, But it's even more serious. There is also a campaign of lies on the left as regards the amendment of the law, as regards the fact that the proposal would force left-wing parties on a common list. This does not correspond to reality, because left-wing parties can set up two separate lists. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó intervenes.]] On the left-wing side of the parties, it is also an unsubstantiated atmosphere of what Tamás Harangozó has just said (Dr. Tamás Harangozó interrupts) It is also that the normal functioning of Parliament is washed up with the protection against the epidemic that we have just heard from our fellow Member Csaba Gyüre. [[13.50]] Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, is functioning normally. Any Member of Parliament and the Government can submit a bill to this House, which Parliament will discuss. It is completely independent that the government has been given an extraordinary mandate to defend itself for 90 days, but only for this. That's why you can't confuse the two things unless you're trying to mislead people. Now, however, it is not the false news that we need, but the real information and cooperation of the people. Ladies and Gentlemen, T/13679 on the amendment of individual electoral laws Bill No. 7 amends seven laws as follows: Act L of 2010 on the Election of Local Representatives and Mayors, CLXXIX of 2011 on the Rights of Nationalities. Act C.C.C.II of 2011 on the election of Members of Parliament. Act XXXVI of 2012 on Parliament Act XXXVI of 2013 on electoral procedure Act CCXXXVIII of 2013 on the initiative of the referendum, the European Citizens' Initiative and the referendum procedure. Act LXXXVII of 2013 on the transparency of the campaign costs of the election of Members of Parliament. Law. Ladies and Gentlemen, In view of the fact that Parliamentary Vice-President Csaba Hende, President of the Commission, Mr Pál Völner, as the lead speaker of the Fidesz, has discussed the bill in detail, so I would like to emphasise only the following. The purpose of the amendment of the law on the election of local government representatives and mayors is, on the one hand, to allow the candidate to accept nominations only in a municipality and in the county where the municipality is located, and, on the other hand, to ensure that no one can be nominated as mayor in a city marked on a county list at the same time and with county rights. The amendment of the law on the rights of nationalities aims to ensure that if the body of the local government of the nationality does not have the necessary cover for the costs of preparing and conducting an interim election due to dissolution or dissolution, it must be advanced from the central budget. By amending the Act on Parliament, the bill defines the increase of electoral results to legal force in the case of the candidates on the list as the final date for the immunity of the candidate. The bill amends Vj. to take action against fake parties by amending the electoral procedure law, which requires 50 individual candidates instead of 27 to make the national list. If a nominating organisation had already drawn up a list, but the number of its candidates would fall below 50, the list would obviously be deleted. The bill is Ptk. bring the concept of janitorial into line with Ve. with its wording on exclusion from voting rights. In the context of the rules on repeated voting, the bill states that, in the event of a repetition of the vote, the ballot counting committee may be replaced, and that candidates and organisations entitled to delegate may also delegate members to a ballot counting committee in which the repeated vote was not delegated at all or less than they were entitled to delegate. The bill also sets out in particular the scope of electoral documents to be destroyed after the elections. The bill also includes an amendment to the National Election Committee in such a way that the total amount of the fees is raised in parallel with the participation of the meeting, and it provides for the possibility for the National Election Committee to hold a meeting using an electronic means of communication. The bill also amends the rules of transfer to increase the deadline for receipt of the request for transfer from the current 4 days to 9 days. The bill also amends the voting rules in the letter by changing the rule of nullity when checking the voting documents submitted in the letter, in order to ensure that the electoral will prevails as fully as possible. In the future, there will be no grounds for nullity and no breach of the requirement of a secret vote if the voter does not close the inner closed envelope at his own discretion, or places his vote in the response envelope without his vote, but the outer envelope is intact. The bill states that it does not violate the secrecy of voting if the voter takes a picture on the ballot paper for private purposes. Csaba Gyüre, our fellow Member, the better-speaker, spoke with very strong words about this amendment of the bill, and I see that our fellow Member Arató will do the same. Well, I'll draw the left-wing factions' attention to the fact that this was an unorganized question. It was an indiscriminate question if the voter made a private recording of the ballot. Now, ladies and gentlemen, in the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 20 January 2020, this Hungarian Two-tailed Dog Party versus Hungary stated that this act did not violate the secrecy of voting. All of this is the Act on Election Procedure 186. Paragraph 3 of this Article would be recorded. So what you are attacking with such vehemency is nothing more than the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 20 January 2020. Even the left should respect court judgments. [[Gergely Harvesto: Shame on you!]] In this regard, it would be laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article. So what you are attacking with such vehemency is nothing more than the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 20 January 2020. Even the left should respect court judgments. (Gergely Harvester: Shame on you!) We respect it, that's why we put it in. Are we ashamed because we respect the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights? That's impossible. Ladies and Gentlemen, I have heard that there has also been a slight grumble on your part about what my fellow Member Csaba Hende said about the implementation of the Constitutional Court decisions, even though my fellow Member has provided objective data. Then allow me to repeat, because this is extremely important, and they are really silent about it. For the sake of simplicity under the 2002-2010 government, what was the Gyurcsány government? I would just like to say, as an example, that the omission established during the period under examination is 64 [[Gergely Arató: Because we didn't have two-thirds, and you didn't support anything!]] , of which 39 were completed; 39 out of 64 were completed. Here comes the honesty of the Fidesz-KDNP government: we have done the things you have not done. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] However, we had to save the country that you have economically come to the brink of the abyss, and besides, it is hard to tell what we had to clean up and what we had to do. Here's an example: here's the 22/2005 Ab Resolution. This was to be completed by the Gyurcsány government by 30 June 2007, compared to which the Orbán government completed its 2011 work. CHAPTER XII The Parliament under the Orbán government. But I can say the same thing about Decision No 23/2005 Ab, which should have been fulfilled by 31 December 2005. This has already been done by us on 17 December 2013. [[14.00]] Imagine, I could list 11 of these cases. Don't you think it's kind of weird if you guys make excuses? First we have to fix what you left behind, and then we can just move on. So, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I can say that on this basis, the KDNP parliamentary faction supports the T/13679 on the amendment of individual electoral laws. Bill No. 1. I'm asking you to consider it and support it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-18-160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Tamás Harangozó, the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, who wishes to give his speech on the pulpit. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-18-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I can ask the most important question about this bill relatively briefly and simply: what is this? What makes you think that an epidemic, in the middle of a virus epidemic, at the most difficult time, is going to have to submit such a bill, and that's what we need to discuss? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: For the boys are afraid!]] Come to think of it, there have been some failures by the pro-government representatives to save the unsaveable, so I would remind you of the circumstances of the submission of this law. It wasn't that long ago last Tuesday. Last Tuesday, millions of people in this country were waiting to find out what fate will befall them from midnight, curfew, closure of companies, compulsory masking. And the Ministry of Justice, whose Secretary of State has brought up the need for this law here today, has been unable to issue the decree in time and fair on Tuesday. Tens of thousands of people, hundreds of thousands of people, didn't even know that the next morning they could go open their shops, shops, catering units to go to work, not go to work, what conditions they would live in. On that evening, Viktor Orbán ran into the Hungarian Royal Television and said that there was a 50-50 chance that health care would collapse and that they still did not have time for the Justice Department to write the decree restricting people on the one hand and publish it on the other. But they had time to submit this great electoral law to Parliament, among other things, during the same hours. Thus, everyone can see why the regulations on people's lives could not have taken place in time. I think it's outrageous on its own! Please tell us, with this law, this good electoral law, how many Hungarians do you intend to save? ! How many people want to improve their lives and livelihoods, help them? Give me a number. On the other hand, there was a long talk of the Constitutional Court's decisions. I'm not surprised that both the lead speakers have mentioned this. Perhaps one of the Fidesz speakers in the debate of the law authorising a European Union council meeting was saying that it was an old commie trick to accuse your opponent of what you're doing. That's what they do, fellow Members. No wonder they put it in their lines. With regard to the electoral law, you are currently in three, one violation and two constitutional failures. They know exactly what they're doing. One is the question of the Pest County Constituencies, where the law itself dictates that Parliament must take action if the size of the constituencies exceeds a certain percentage. Several constituencies exceed their size. They also know that the same law provides that this decision must be taken in Parliament by 1 January of the year preceding the election, i.e. the next few weeks will be returned. The Constitutional Court also told you until 31 December last year that this completely abusive posterisation and poster licensing procedure should be put in place in this law, according to the Constitutional Court's judgment, because all forms of redress are completely lacking. By the way, this decision was passed by the Longev Szekszárd Association to the Constitutional Court during the local elections in Szekszárd. Where it happened that your Fidesz mayor simply didn't grant permission, didn't refuse the application, and thus, abusing the shortcomings of the law, tried to prevent the other competing party from appearing in public territory at all, and when the posters were posted by the Members, they were removed. When the police started investigating, because we're talking about stealing, at the end of the day, the police, imagine where they found the posters? The mayor's office building. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oops!]] This is your fair, fair electoral procedure, which they are also unwilling to correct in this law. The third issue in which they are in default is a constitutional violation, and that is the question of public use, which was also said by the Constitutional Court, is that the current electoral procedural law is completely abusive, uncoordinated, left to the convenience of each mayor to provide it, somewhere not, and that is not okay. Compared to this, in this bill, you manipulate the rules of listing, a year and a half before the election, facilitate letter-vote fraud, and we will speak about it separately, because for some mysterious reason, you have left this part out of your keynote speech, and you do not comply with the implementation of the Constitutional Court and the rules that are otherwise in force. Then let us talk to my fellow Member Csaba Hende about Ilona Pálffy's proposal, because we were indeed there. And, Congressman, you know best what the National Election Office has put forward in writing there. There is not a letter in this proposal that you have submitted from that proposal! There aren't any letters! That proposal in the county of Pest would have changed the position of the twelve parliamentary single mandate constituencies, so that the difference in the number of voters from the average number of voters does not exceed the value laid down by law, which would be the job of Parliament today. They would have suspended the registration of voters without a Hungarian address, who did not return a letter of vote until the second parliamentary election in the previous period and did not contact the National Election Office in any other form. In English: NTI has proposed to tighten up and try to better eliminate the abuse of cross-border letter votes, so that people registered on behalf of them years ago cannot be abused. That is not in your proposal either, ladies and gentlemen. Why? The rest of the NTI's proposal is precisely what I have just mentioned and refers to, the two posters and public use cases imposed by the Constitutional Court by 31 December last year, in which NTI made a relatively correct proposal on the table. The point of this is precisely that no owner, local government or private company can abuse the election, otherwise, in a very short period of time, the appearance of candidates in the field of street posters. He also made a proposal, which is different from what you have just brought here, to prevent a queue, but not by restricting the voter's check-in time, but by giving you the opportunity to set up voting circles, so that several ballot counting committees count the votes in areas where there are a lot of votes due to transfer. [[Nacsa Lawrence: It's in there!]] So what do you do? They are concerned with rewriting the rules of listing so that fifty single-member constituencies have to start. They are concerned with the photographing of the ballot paper, which everyone in Hungary knows is not only suitable for what my better fellow Member has said, that it is being taken from people who may be dependent on it, that they will subsequently show who they voted for, but everyone knows precisely that the photographing of the ballot paper is election fraud, in particular one of the basic principles of buying votes, that when they buy votes for money, they must prove to the delikens that they voted in the right place and that they have to pay the money to photograph the ballot. [[14.10]] Why do you care, tell me? Otherwise, they make it difficult to issue referendums in this proposal, as the deadline for the election office and the election committee is increased from 30 days to 60 days, and, yes, the possibility of misuse of letter votes and cross-border voting is extended, since they take out the fact that the ballot paper must be placed in an envelope and it must be closed. We know exactly how many of these votes were invalid in the previous election, because our observers called the election office's attention to putting them aside immediately. But even in the midst of the rumpo yelling in the United States, I would say to you that there is this rule, and otherwise, if you don't have to put it in an envelope and it doesn't have to be closed, not only do you threaten that we don't trust each other at home, but, in terms of letter voting, it is possible to change the votes cast by one stroke of a pen, either through the mail of foreign states or through any other media. I do not understand why this can be in the interests of the Hungarian people, and why the Hungarian state can be in any way in their interest, unless they are thinking about facilitating electoral fraud. And then let's talk about the most important reason you have for this bill, the elimination of so-called fake parties. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Dialogue! Z. Carpathian Daniel: Berki!]] First of all, he's got some solid charm when the KDNP representative is faking in this room, so let's note this. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Won't Dr. Gődény be?]] I think it will be worth measuring at some point, but perhaps we will try to measure the political support of the KDNP as a political party alone, but I would be happy to hear from the Member in his rejoinder that we have some information on how to do so. How many party members do they have in this country when you're speaking as such a well-organized party. [[Nacsa Lawrence: I'll tell you! Dr. Imre Vejkey: More than MSZP!]] Do you want us to take action against the fake parties? Will you achieve it with this proposal, fellow Members? How much money did you recover from the money you stole from the previous election? How many people have been held accountable in recent times when they cheated and stole common money in front of a country? Here, give me a number. I would particularly like to address a specific case here, in this debate, because it also links the absurdity of their control of the virus epidemic with this bill. This is specifically the case of György Gődény and the Common Name 2018 Fake Party. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: The government's viral friend!]] What moral basis do you have here to tell us that you want to take this proposal against the fake parties? During the 2008 Hungarian parliamentary elections, this fake party launched 42 individual candidates and received 3894 votes. Since then, a total of 13 criminal proceedings against the party have been launched using false private documents in Hungarian for misuse of recommendations. They left with a campaign grant of HUF 153 million, which, as far as we know, they didn't get a single penny back. Meanwhile, the president of that party is openly repudiating the virus, not government measures, such as opposition parties and politicians, but the activities that deny the virus and deny the government measures, which have been organising movement against it for weeks, in Hungary for months, but also since the announcement of the emergency. [[Like Benedek Jávor!]] He is a virus denier, and he is carrying out an otherwise questionable activity in the use of the mask, and on this basis, and he is collecting signatures against government measures. Why do you think he's collecting signatures? In order to seize the money as a fake party in the 22nd elections, all of this is on the loose with 13 criminal proceedings and 153 million forints of unrecovered money, and both from an epidemiological point of view and from a criminal point of view, you, your government, are standing idly in front of a country. Don't talk to us about fake parties. I have one more question, ladies and gentlemen. Have you noticed how long there has been a fake party phenomenon in Hungary? I'll help you. Since you unilaterally rewrote this electoral law, since you've been operating as an individual candidate in Hungary, this has been the process ever since. However, ladies and gentlemen, the manipulation of the list in this bill will not prevent opposition parties and the civil world from joining forces, starting together and replacing this government by gaining the trust of the majority of people in the 2022 elections. What you're doing with this law, and what you're doing with the disease control, believe me, it's just strengthening this process. In conclusion, I would warn you, fellow Members, that, in a good fidesz manner, by deceiving Parliament, deceiving voters, and then, at the last moment, by abuse of house rules, in the framework of the work of the Legislative Committee, further amendments should be introduced into this law, which is currently not included in this law. They can and they do, but if they dare to do so, fellow Members, their souls on it, but you should know that this will be the last coffin in your political reign. [[Gábor Bányai: Don't threaten me!]] Cancel this proposal. Mind your business. Help people, save people's lives. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-11-18-162	Dear Parliament, A speaker from the DK Group, Mr Gergely Arató, will be here to speak. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-163	Dear House, What you're doing right now is a hit-and-run for the citizens of this country and this country. In the middle of a pandemic, you do not deal with helping people who are in trouble, you do not deal with protecting the country, you do not deal with improving the health situation, you do not deal with ensuring that it is safe to let our children go to school, you do not deal with helping those who go bankrupt, your business is ruined, you do not deal with helping those who have lost their jobs. The only thing you're dealing with is that with various tricks and bending the electoral law, you're even a little bit cemented, even if you lose people's trust. That's all that matters to you. It's the power that matters. This amendment is a supplementary act of the panic government. When people expected to mention this, Mr Bellozó, a whole country was looking forward to the tightening of measures when, after doing nothing for months, they pulled the plug and stopped the country when they were waiting for the government decree to be published that would determine the lives of all of us, while the government was dealing with preparing a series of legislative proposals, including electoral law and the amendment of the Fundamental Law. It is not your job now, it is not what you were authorized to do; it is not what we supported when we told you to start treating the epidemic, because you would have plenty of work to do. I could introduce free testing at last, of course, it's already too late, but it could still help. They could extend job search support and provide direct support to those who have lost their jobs. They could re-open the state wage gap to save jobs. They could support pensioners and families, raise the family allowance to help those in the most difficult situations, or make sure that at least everyone gets a flu shot, which they promised everyone, that they could take this vaccine free of charge, but there is no vaccination. But that's not what you do! You're dealing with the election law. What are you suggesting? A small part of the amendments is indeed a technical transfer that helps to deal with situations of this kind, which are not important, but do not cause any harm. But what else is in there? Let me highlight three elements. The first of these is the ability to take pictures of ballots. Dear House, I must say that if I am very careful, you have not read the judgment of the Court of Strasbourg with due care. If I'm not so careful, then I have to say that you're making a false reference to this verdict. The two-tailed Dog Party has not initiated proceedings for photographing ballots, but for making public the ballot papers so photographed. [[14.20]] Moreover, the reason for the judgment was not that photography was legal or not legal, but that, under the electoral law, the Two-Dagger Dog Party knew that it was breaking the law. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you know, you're denying it, you're lying that in most countries of Europe, since it's current, let me also say that it's forbidden to take pictures of ballots in most of the Member States of the United States of America. And this is not for nothing, fellow Members. Do you know what a picture of the ballot is for? That the voters you have bought your vote, or those you have threatened, the entrepreneurs in your service, that you will lose your job if you do not vote for the right place, not the Fidesz, or those who are threatened to lose community service if you do not vote for the Fidesz, can be checked and called to account. It would not be necessary to make fraud legal, on the contrary: it would be necessary to ban it, to control and severely punish the person who does such a thing, and especially the one who forces people to do so. The fact is, you want to legitimize the most widespread electoral fraud with this measure. They want to legalize election fraud because you know that in a fair and fair election, they don't stand much chance of winning the next election, but instead they're trying to establish a legal basis for election fraud. It's the same with the votes across the border, with the letter votes. They know that we do not agree on this principle either, so that those who do not live in Hungary and do not live here will vote. But that's not what this is about. It is now that you have set up a voting procedure where there are already many ways to abuse the data of Hungarian voters across the border, there are still many ways to vote for others on their behalf not only we say, I add, the head of the National Election Office has also described it in a previous case, and now instead of eliminating these obvious violations, what are you doing? They open up further fraud opportunities by reducing the control of letter voting, allowing letter voting to be opened and exchanged. And it's not some kind of misunderstanding or mistake, that's what you're trying to do. You are not expecting the vote of Hungarians across the border, you are not granting them rights. You want to abuse the data of Hungarian voters across the border and cheat on their behalf. And let us be clear: not only are they embarrassing Hungarian voters in Hungary, they are putting them at a disadvantage, but they are also creating an extremely humiliating situation for Hungarian voters across the border. I must therefore tell you that these two measures are in any way contrary to the purity of elections and to the principle of fair elections. What about the lists? It's simply charming when you talk about how by tightening up the list, the fake parties will be eliminated. Do you know what to do if you want to eliminate the fake parties? Don't organize them. For example, don't give them the data from the Fidesz recommendation sheet. There were two constituencies, the VIIth. district and the Zugló constituency, where in 2018 it was discovered that the same names were included in the recommendation sheet of a fake party and Fidesz. Jumped over, crawled through the vault last night? What happened? Plus, there's an activist who tells us they got those names from Fidesz. Now, that's enough, and there won't be room for the fake party. And do one more thing: your police and their prosecutors investigate these cases. Don't end these cases, as has happened in many cases, that, yeah, we can't investigate that. You cover these fake parties, you support them, and this has nothing to do with allowing them to leave in 27 districts or 50 districts. They'll solve it the same way with the fake parties, if they wanted to, and if they didn't want to, there wouldn't be any such parties. So I have to say that's a false and lying argument. What is not in this regulation? This is also worth mentioning, at least two elements. The OSCE Election Observation Mission criticized the 2018 election on a number of points, and let me highlight two of them. It criticised, on the one hand, the disproportionate access of government parties to state resources and communication resources and the fact that legislation limits opposition campaign opportunities. I would add that since then, another one has been tightened up in 2018, so today's situation is much worse than that. They don't care about that. They do not deal with equal opportunities for political forces in elections, nor do they deal with the fact that the government's assets cannot be used for the government's electoral campaign, in Hungarian, not for voters, Fidesz is campaigning with the money of all of us. And they don't deal with any other points, which I've talked about or touched on, but it's also interesting from this point of view. They do not address this, either, because the electoral register of Hungarians across the border is not public, so it cannot be verified who they vote for at all. It cannot be verified that it is the vote of the person who has the right to vote, and it cannot be verified who you think has the right to vote. The Election Committee reported that the ballot papers had been sent to persons who had already passed away, and nevertheless received the ballot form, or for whom the recipient had returned with unknown names in the case of Hungarians across the border. You are therefore abusing Hungarians across the border on their behalf, but without their consent you are committing electoral fraud. Finally, I must say what is missing from this proposal, which is what Mr Bellozó spoke about. It lacks the proportionality of constituencies, which is what the NVI has proposed, and it is no coincidence that this is not presented. I am living with the same suspicion that the Member had: it will come up later, in a legislative amendment after a time, in a legislative amendment. To be honest, Gergely Gulyás, Minister, who said that this would have to be done in consultation with the opposition, but he did not initiate a consultation, he did not speak to the opposition, and then wash his hands that it was not his fault that a Member, let's say, the pro-government majority of the Legislative Committee, suddenly remembered from Wednesday to Thursday or Wednesday how to rearrange constituencies. I must say that if you do this, this is also a fairly obvious form of electoral fraud. In conclusion, I can therefore say that the current negotiation of this bill is unjustified, and this bill does not increase the security of elections, but reduces the security of elections. At the same time, I must also tell you that you can trick with lists, trick with different cheating methods, try to prevent or limit free elections, in this country the Hungarian people will decide [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] And if the Hungarian people think that they are fed up with you, they will replace you with any tricks and cheats. And if you are thinking about where President Lukashenka has come to openly cheating off the results of the elections, I must say that the Hungarian people are no more despicable than the Belarusian people. Thank you so much for listening. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]]
u2020-11-18-164	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-165	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, This is an extremely significant bill, which has caused great indignation by the submission of this, the date of its submission, and the fact that you have done so at all. I think that many people are watching this parliamentary work despite the circumstances, and I would like to reiterate that, in this situation, the most important thing I think is that we all show our respect and thank those who work in such difficult times to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people. Seeing this process, seeing the cynical exposure and the pro-government contributions, I think it is a shame and a shame that there is now a debate in Parliament about such a law, in such an extremely serious crisis, when there is a long list of measures that should have been tabled and discussed. I'd like to get to that a little bit. This is basically not a voter's rights, not a policy, not a legal debate, it is basically a hard political debate, and it could be resolved relatively quickly. In fact, you also believe that you lied when this law was presented and the justification was formulated. Recall, almost a day ago, on 20 November 2019, a statement from the Governmental Information Centre was published in disproved to a press report, which said that according to the government, the electoral law worked, neither the government nor the pro-government factions would want to modify it. [[14.30]] So, almost a year ago, you guys were communicating this, when news came out in one of the press products that you were starting to streamline electoral laws on a political basis. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: No...]] So we can say that in a year, even you think that you lied by submitting this bill. It should also be clear that you have created different arguments. These, by the way, have already been torn apart by my fellow Members, and in the press, in practically a day or two, it may have been obvious to everyone that it is not what you have justified. It is quite clear that this is an intervention supported by harsh power technology in the electoral system, and by the way, Csaba Hende even acknowledged this in his comment. It is quite clear, and my fellow Members have also said in detail that you would not only reduce the possibility of fraud, but open the door wide to well-known or perhaps the most well-known frauds. And it is also clear that no meaningful steps have been taken to curb the operation of the fake parties, the existence of the fake parties, nor are they doing so now. That is not the subject of this proposal. They'd have a million chances to do that. That's not your goal. And indeed, my fellow Members have already said this, and the former head of the National Election Office has had many proposals which, in turn, should be included in this proposal and which you have not tabled. However, I do not want to take my speech so simply, and I would like to respond briefly to what has been said. Csaba Hende made quite a lot of political statements, even in the previous debate, Minister of State Csaba Dömötör, he is no longer here, he is not the rapporteur of this item. Congressman Imre Vejkey also had comments, and I would react relatively shorter. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, said in the closing of the previous item that the opposition factions had made false news and claimed that Parliament was closed, that it did not work and that it was closed. [[Csaba Hende: That's right!]] There may have been such statements, but I think that making such a statement generalized, I think that this is what we talked about, that is unacceptable, and I reject it. You can be quite certain that these allegations were not made by the LMP fraction and by me. And I can also say, and perhaps you will find, fellow Members, that the LMP faction is actively involved in the work of Parliament, regardless of whether our 100th and 200th proposals are rejected without debate. At the same time, we believe that Parliament should actually work. And the problem was neither in the spring nor in the current period, in parallel with the extraordinary legal order, that laws would be passed before the National Assembly, that is natural, and the Parliament must function, the problem is how, how and what you use Parliament. But we can remember, in the spring period, during the first wave of the epidemic, for example, a shameful measure was introduced, in connection with the nearly 1000 billion-dollar project of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, which is a kind of Chinese great authority interest and Mészáros Lőrinc's companies, rather than trying to support this shameful motion of national treason, rather than trying to put anything on the table that supports this outrageous $1,000-billion spending, the spread of people's money, guarantees of return, contracts, no, this project has been accelerated, and it has been encrypted for ten years. So they made it impossible for the Hungarian people to know in such a severe epidemiological period and during a deep economic crisis what you want to spend a lot of taxpayers' money on. But we could also list the measures that would not normally have been in place, let alone during a crisis like this, before the National Assembly. We could long describe the restrictions that have been imposed on the municipalities, the withdrawal of vehicle tax revenues, the withdrawal from virtually the financing of local public transport, and in all other ways make it impossible for the municipalities which are the prime bastions of defence to function effectively. And now, by the way, there are rather frightening prospects that can be excluded from pro-government communication. The measures which would have been in proportion to the depth of the economic crisis and the budgetary resources of which are in the budget have not been submitted to Parliament in parallel. These completely unnecessary large investments could have been stopped, and there could have been substantial help to the Hungarian people who were in a very difficult situation. And indeed, we have now come to the point that, at committee level, because, of course, opposition proposals will no longer reach the plenary session, round pretzels say that we do not have the budgetary resources for these measures. Of course you don't, it can be traced from your policy this year, and it can be derived from the past many years. And the fact that this country is in such a difficult situation today, and there are a lot of systems creaking, unfortunately, is also due to the fact that you have indeed put power technology to the top, but you have mismanaged, and the effects of this can be achieved in many spheres. And these are the issues that should be discussed here, before the Parliament, when the country is really struggling with a crisis, and in a crisis, health workers, law enforcement workers and everyone who protects people in the first line are trying to cope under these conditions. These issues should be discussed before the National Assembly. I've been referring to Hende Csaba. It has repeatedly confirmed that the government side is monitoring what opposition parties communicate, what they say, and that they are shaping the electoral law, or taking into account it. [[Csaba Hende with his index finger, no...]] In practice, they recognise that they are looking at actual political aspects, they are looking at the communication of opposition parties and they are reaching into the legislation. By the way, you said wrong, Mr President: you said that opposition parties have issued some kind of commies that they want to run on a common list. That's absolutely not true. [[Csaba Hende: No?]] So I can tell you that Csaba Hende has become a fake news producer [[Csaba Hende smacks his hands together.]] [[Csaba Hende: No?]] So I can tell you that Csaba Hende has become a fake news producer (Csaba Hende clashes with his hands.) in your own way. Look at the press communication on this, but I don't think that's the point. (Csaba Hende: No?) Indeed, opposition parties have explained in many circles that they are open to constituencies coordination, open to electoral cooperation. Indeed, there was no common list [[Csaba Hende: No?]] But I think that this is a technical issue, but that this is the argument made by the lead speaker of Fidesz is basically the recognition that you are touching a current political situation subject to power-technical criteria, a fundamental law, and that you are touching the electoral system. [[Csaba Hende: No...]] [[Csaba Hende: No...]] , the system through which the Hungarian people can express their views (Csaba Hende: No...) and which will form the majority that will lead this country in the 2022 election. And then, on the other hand, I do not want to repeat my fellow opposition Members, because the aim is not to multiply the word here, but it is quite clear that if you wanted to do anything against the fake parties, which is clearly in your interest, then this should have been reflected in this amendment to the electoral law, to be more precise: it should have appeared in this, not the gross transformation of the electoral system. With regard to the recommendations, we can say that the infinite number of recommendations can be converted into finite or multiple recommendations, which meet democratic expectations, but not infinite. They could have also set up a system for checking signatures, which they never did once. How many and how many legal cases have there been when they have been involved in this type of abuse, or who have fallen victim to this, legal proceedings, and have practically not gone through with them. So in the current system, you did not have any interest, nor did you have the opportunity to take any meaningful action against these fake parties, and to recover the huge sums that these parties had obtained from taxpayers out of purely economic gain or motivation for money. You have not tabled any amendments to this law, it would have been possible. And it is also quite clear that we are a year and a half before the elections that you have lied to yourself compared to the clear statements made a year ago, when you're going through this election system, saying a year ago that this electoral system worked. Now that a year and a half before the elections are being made such a fundamental change, I think that even the most fanatical people who support you will not be able to explain it, at the most, to one click at the most, what an effective pull the government has made once again. If there were any intention of making such a conceptual reform of the electoral system, it would obviously not have been any different than after the closing of a parliamentary election, with a broad consultation, i.e. involving all relevant political actors, but most importantly, with a social consultation in this way, or an amendment could have been tabled. I do not think I will reveal a great secret that the intention of any consultation on this current amendment has not even been made, and indeed, I have already quoted it several times, against your very, very clear statement a year ago. And I also underline what has already been said, fellow Members, that, in a rather outrageous way, in a situation where an extremely dangerous epidemic has reached our country, this epidemic is raging, and we are all witnessing a very deep economic and social crisis, while the substantive measures that are needed have not been taken. Just give me a few more reactions. This is Gergely Arató, my fellow Member, who said that DK basically contradicts the principles of the voting rights of Hungarians across the border. I can tell you that LMP has been standing up for Hungarians across the border since its founding. Of course, we agree with the Hungarians' right to vote across the border, but we do want it, and we consider it a very, very serious omission that many, many tens of thousands of people who have been forced to leave this country for economic reasons because of your bad governance cannot have the same opportunity, they cannot use their electoral rights in the same way. [[14.40]] I think that it is not necessary to limit the rights, but to extend it so that all those who were forced to leave this country because of your faulty and bad policy, because if you can sum up the biggest crime of your country since 2010, then it is quite clear that due to your bad policy, emigration was shocking, hundreds of thousands of people were forced to leave this country not because of an adventure but because of economic pressure, and unfortunately, we are now at the point that every six Hungarian children in motherland are born abroad. So we say very strongly that we support the voting rights of Hungarians from beyond the border, but we want them to migrate out of coercion, so those expelled by your policy could vote in the same way and could participate in the Hungarian parliamentary elections in the same way. I have one question at the end, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps to the Secretary of State, which of you is competent in this matter, because, I do not know, surprises can reach us today from the government side: would you expect another amendment to this bill that has already been tabled to refer to it, will there still be surprises that may not be fully cooked in your witch kitchens, or perhaps there is some kind of scenario of how, how, how, and how, will they administer this and bring in their various modifiers? Unfortunately, in recent times, we have become accustomed to the fact that there is no social consultation, no other consideration here, only your clear political and power-technical calculations. But I would like you to answer this question, that there will be another major, conceptual amendment proposal for this law, which affects the electoral law. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-18-166	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Timea Szabó, lead speaker of the Dialogue Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-167	Thank you for the floor. First of all, on October 22, Gergely Gulyás said that we will not touch the electoral law. Looks like Gergely Gulyás wasn't telling the truth, we're standing here talking about a very substantial change. Moreover, we know exactly that Viktor Orbán once said not so long ago that we were not watching what he said, but what he was doing. We know very well that the point is not yet in this amendment, that it will come in here in a few days with either a summary amendment, or perhaps even next year we can expect far more despicable amendments from Fidesz. Ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Members from KDNP! In case you haven't noticed, there's an epidemic, more than 100 people die in the coronal virus every day, and in Europe we're still producing the third worst indicators of death per 100,000 inhabitants. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] Unfortunately, most people still die in Europe after Spain and Belgium because you did not take the measures in time. They've been on luxury yachts all summer, flying around, taking vacations, and we knew exactly where the plague would be. Since then, Viktor Orbán has announced measures, but he himself has admitted that the government has failed the epidemic. Orbán said that we should pay attention to how many people die and then show how successful a country is. This means that Hungary is the third worst performing country in Europe. Viktor Orbán himself acknowledged this. What are you gonna do about it? Last week, during the night's cover, at exactly 11:59 p.m., they're filing a bunch of laws that have nothing to do with disease management. I'm asking you how many lives you're going to save now is the amendment of the electoral law. How many doctors, nurses, hospitals will you help with the submission of laws on fish farming or breweries? How much will the amendment of the Fundamental Law now tabled reduce the spread of the epidemic? Nothing! Once again, you do not deal with disease management in a depraved and sly way, not with saving people's health, saving their livelihoods, but with cementing their own power and stealing their own industrial size. Over and over again, they prove that you are not worthy of government, and you fool the Hungarian people every time you see them. And if that hadn't been enough last week, Viktor Orbán thought that he had to announce the veto of the EU budget as well, which would have helped or provided Hungary with hundreds of billions of forints immediately. The Presidents of the opposition parties today have turned to the President of the Council of Europe, the President of the European Commission and the President-in-Office of the Council in a joint letter on the veto of the EU. We will also launch a petition together, and very soon you will realise that hundreds of thousands of Hungarians are protesting the equality mark between Hungary and Viktor Orbán. Viktor Orbán is not equal to Hungary, the Hungarian people do not ask for the inhumane games of Viktor Orbán. Let's look at the election law, since you've already managed to submit it last night, what it's all about. In a false way, you say that this will help eliminate fake parties and help clean elections, but we know very well that this is not the case. Since 2010, the electoral law has been amended countless times, and, to put it mildly, it has not been changed in order to guard the purity of the election, or to help everyone to run for the election on an equal footing. You have once again submitted this electoral law without any agreement. There is no European civilised country where the governing parties would not consult the opposition, nor would there be broad social reconciliation of laws of this magnitude. Again, you did not, because you are placing a high stake in the interests of the Hungarian people, the purity of the election. They've modified the list, and they're saying that in 9 counties, not only do we need 27 candidates, but now we need 50 individual candidates, a party to start and make a list. They're doing this, according to your false explanation, for the sake of the purity of the election, in order to eliminate the fake parties. I would like to ask you that the Common Name fake party, which started in 2018 with your support and received 0.07 percent, owes you 153 million forints of public money, without any consequences, to this day. You are to ensure that this proven fake couple... of course, that virus-denial Gödény is the leader of this party. [[Nacsa Lárinc's intervention.]] who you like so much, and who you have supported with every possible soft means to make the Hungarian people believe that this is not a serious epidemic at the beginning of autumn. You supported protestors in the elections in 2018 [[Nacsa Lárinc: Jávor Benedek!]] And despite the fact that there are 13 criminal proceedings in progress against Gödény and his party, you have done nothing to get this money back, two, this man will be put in jail. Then you want us to believe that you're planning on dumping the fake parties in the election? You gotta be kidding me. Another false explanation is that they refer to the Hungarian Two-Dagger Dog Party here in the photosability of the ballots. We know very well that the decision of the European Committee on Human Rights was not about... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Court of Justice!]] Thank you for the decision of the Human Rights Court, it was not about being photographed and shown freely to the world. [[14.50]] Unfortunately, we know that you are legalising now so that everyone is free to photograph it in rural Hungary in those small villages where your oligarchs keep public workers vulnerable in the meanest way, in companies run by the local governments of the state or in your hands, they want to get people to do it, and then maybe in public work or in the mind of the promise that they will not be fired from their jobs if they show who they voted for. We know very well that Viktor Orbán and Fidesz-KDNP are playing a mean game. The part about letter voting is just as vile and deceitful. At least so far, the envelopes could not be officially opened, in 2018, we saw that on several occasions the letter votes that turned out to have been opened were destroyed, since your party people could not go through Transylvanian settlements and verify that the people who lived there had voted correctly. Now you will also facilitate election fraud in the letter vote. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] They're also tricking with log-ins. We know very well that they think that college students, young people who don't live there right now, say, because they go to school, where they're going to vote, often come through at the last minute. But I respectfully report that we will do everything in our power to properly communicate and communicate with these people in time, so that, because of your vile amendment, they will now have to sign over sooner. They won't be able to cheat with this, however they want it. Let's take a look at that, because that's what's more important about what's not in this electoral law right now, and unfortunately, I think it's gonna come in in the summary amendments. We know that the only legal obligation they would have had was to establish a new district in Pest County, which was also included in the Election Office's recommendation, in Pest County, plus a district. We know what they're going to do: they're going to bring in a summary amendment to shut down a district in Budapest and then give it to the Pest counties in exchange for the opposition to accidentally have an extra district. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You just asked for...]] You wanna bet? You wanna bet we're doing this? We did not ask you to terminate it, we asked you to act legally and give us what your amendment required years ago that there should be no 20 percent difference in population. He made it in 2018, plus a precinct should be set up in Pest County. We know what they're gonna do: they're gonna shut down the downtown district, and they're gonna set up the Pest county district, because they're mean, and they're gonna wait for us to be able to comment on that in the summary. We know very well that they'll be messing with party financing. This year, the support of opposition parties has been taken away and its support will be lost again next year. [[Dr. Pál Völner: For the governing parties, too.]] We're not stealing, but you're carrying out the thousand billion, which is now legalized even in the Fundamental Law, so that opposition parties won't have enough resources. I'm reporting, we're still gonna win this election, and we're gonna get you out of the government, no matter how hard you twist it. And then it's not far from you that now you're on the 50 district list and you're gonna have to be on a list and you're gonna have to sit in a faction. Perhaps this will discourage opposition parties from running together. Whatever you're doing, let's just say once again, we're not gonna be afraid of your modifiers, we know exactly what you're up to, they've been playing this for ten years. We just don't care. They're terrified that they're gonna lose this election in 22. You have also seen the survey of Závecz Research published a week ago, in which the joint list has 40 percent support and the Fidesz-KDNP list has 36 percent support. It hasn't been 10 years, and now you're scared that the opposition will actually win the election. We're gonna win this thing. Let me warn you of one thing. If you think about this, as I will say next, in an amendment, whether in a later amendment or now, in the summary amendment, if you take the Albanian model of not having a common list in the election, then the European Union will have a word or two for that, and the opposition parties will have a word or two together. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: What about KDNP?]] In that case, I'm afraid you'll be running alone in the 2022 election. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: What about us?]] Well, KDNP is being sacrificed. No wonder I'm looking at Nacsa Lawrence. To sum up, my fellow Members of the Fidesz, this law is despicable and devious. The Fidesz-KDNP is a coward and a coward. We know they want to play tricks, we know they're terrified. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Very!]] from the 2022 election. We know it's not about what's in it right now, what we're arguing about, but it's about to come. But let us once again tell you that the united opposition will stay together, we will win the 2022 election, and we will drive your thieving and inhumane government out of power. Thank you.
u2020-11-18-168	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speaker speeches. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The answer will be... Szabó Timea: There is an epidemic... Nacsa Lőrinc: Always running away. Szabó Timea is leaving the room.]] Unfortunately, the president-in-chief doesn't have a chance to speak at the moment. Dear Parliament, The first independent congressman to come forward may now speak. I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró, within a 15-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-169	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is quite clear that the Fidesz wants to legitimise the fraud that he has committed several times, but it is quite funny that the socialists pretend that they have never used this instrument. We know that for 30 years, the practice has been taking place in Hungary, which looks down on people with low education and, above all, buys the votes of Gypsy. Previously, the MSZP continued the same practice, and now it is the Fidesz that touches this device. I will also give you a concrete example of this, and I will also quote a final court ruling on this, not only will I say horse-zungs like the Balliberal opposition representatives here have done. The fact that the lead speaker of the KDNP refers to the European Court of Human Rights in this regard is also amusing, since a few months ago it was suggested here that Hungary should even consider stepping out of the jurisdiction of this court. The Hungarian Movement would otherwise support this for Hungary to do so, because in this court, judgments relating to prison business have been made against Hungary, which is quite simply outrageous. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair. The notary seats are occupied by Gergely Arató and Attila Gelencsér.]] For example, Miklós Hagyó received millions of compensations because his cell was moldy, so the Hungarian State was obliged to pay him millions of compensations, or those two expelled Bangladeshi asylum seekers had to pay Hungary ten thousand euros, who also had inadequate detention conditions. So the reference to the European Court of Human Rights and its acceptance as a standard on the government side is simply outrageous and should be rejected. In addition, it is uncredited: if you were talking about the prison business, how to get out of the jurisdiction of this court, why, in other cases and matters of electoral law, consider the judgments of the same court to be a standard? This is incomprehensible and unreliable on your part. It would be much more important, and what the government really needs to do is to take the will of the people into account, in fact, by linking the right to vote to the knowledge of writing and reading. Congressman Csaba Hende considered this dangerous in his speech as a speaker. I believe that this would be dangerous for Fidesz-KDNP, but from the point of view of Hungarian society it would not be, and would even contribute to a clearer picture of the will of the electorate. [[15.00]] In order to link something to a basic school education in Hungary, you introduced it into the Hungarian legal system in 2010, when you introduced it as a condition for obtaining a driving licence in a bill that you must have a basic school education for those who can obtain a driving licence. So this solution is no stranger to the Hungarian legal system. It would express the will of the voters much better if they did not change the result by buying a vote, because there is a settlement in Hungary, I have recently been there personally, in Heves County, Kompolton, where the mayor became specifically different from the mayor who would have been without it. Zoltán Balázs won with one vote in 2014 in this settlement, and the court stated in three final judgments that the vote was purchased. That, in the case of Zoltán Balázs, not on the Gypsy row, the court ruled that he had purchased the votes of the people in three cases, so it would not have been the result of the election, nor would he have sat in the mayor's seat if he had been mayor as a result of the violations. And what is the Hungarian legal system like? In the next election, Zoltán Balázs can start in peace and again, it doesn't matter that the court has finally ruled that he has won a vote, became mayor, and what God gives, in 2019 according to the locals, not by buying votes, but by buying votes, but once again by gaining a very big advantage and a majority of votes for the mayor's seat, which belongs to the Gypsy line. Interestingly, they do not want to deal with or even legitimize, or even make it easier to control, the individual citizens who vote or vote on who they draw the tick on. Zoltán Balázs, by the way, follows the principle of home, where the profits are, because he was a great friend of Lajos Korózs and Ferenc Gyurcsány, and today he draws me to Fidesz and deals with Fidesz. So his person also shows the amazing corrupt, unfair system that has been in Hungary for 30 years, which is also reflected in the electoral rules. And there is another point of great interest in this bill, this one list, two lists, fifty constituencies. It's obvious the Fidesz thinks everyone's stupid when they say they're bringing this against the fake parties. Obviously, it is not the fake parties receiving two thousand and three thousand votes that hurt Fidesz's sense of justice or choice, but it is quite clear that it is the opposition list that brought this proposal here. But on the opposition side, I don't understand what your problem is. Nobody held a gun to the head of Jobbik, LMP or Momentum, for example, in the 2019 municipal elections, where you and DK have already started on a common list in several counties! In several counties, Jobbik's logo was included in the joint list on the ballot paper between DK and MSZP logo. [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: LMP was not on the county list.]] There was no electoral law that forced Jobbik, Momentum or LMP to do so. Nothing! And yet you chose, yes, to put together a list in several counties with the social and Gyurcs? So it's obvious that Jobbik doesn't mind that they have to make a common list. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes! Dr. Pál Völner: That's right, you sold yourselves!]] With Ferenc Gyurcsány's party, they have done so many times. Now they're pretending they won't hold the hand of the person they're about to marry in public, because you want to govern the country together with Ferenc Gyurcsány's party, while everyone has known for a long time that they're having an affair. And the shocking thing, my fellow Members, is that they are going to issue a statement that they are going to make a joint presidential candidate and that the outcome of the pre-election will be accepted. So, where appropriate, all Balliberal Members and Candidates, and I have also arrived at Jobbik, LMP and Momentum, will be willing to work to become Prime Minister of Hungary for Klara Dobrev. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Dóri, of course, leave it alone!]] It's not a problem for you, it's not a problem for you. So let's say it. This was declared jointly in a communication. From now on, don't play the Gyurcsány phobia. Don't pretend that it's important what Ferenc Gyurcsány did during his administration, or that the values that many of you personally fought against in 2006 still mean anything to you! But the municipal election was also such a situation, and in the current operation of the municipalities, you support mayors who pay DK politicians millions of dollars a month. There was a vote on this in NewBuda to terminate the contract of Csaba Czeglédy, DK politician. And did Jobbik, LMP or Momentum vote against it? No. [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: The LMP fought to eliminate these contracts.]] But here is another example: Tamás Soproni, VI. district, Terézváros mayor has banned the cross of the Hungarian Movement in public territory, and you are cooperating with this Tamás Soproni, which is supported by Tamás Soproni to become mayor of Terézváros! Nothing interferes with LMP, Momentum or Jobbik when such decisions are made. There wasn't one congressman who would stand up and say, "Well, that sucks." There wasn't one, there wasn't one! It's just the indignity, it's the indignity that characterizes this monster coalition, and don't act like it, and I'll tell you again, they're not gonna make that kind of decision. Well, we see where they govern, there's Csaba Czeglédy, we see where they govern, where they ban the cross! Don't tell me that if you gave the majority of the government in Hungary, supplemented by Jobbik, then such decisions would not be made! Well, we can see that they're born. And it's not a common list or a separate list. From now on, it's a technical issue, you don't have to pretend to govern with Ferenc Gyurcsány, but you refuse to be on the same list with him. Well, a common government means much deeper cooperation than running for office in an election on a common list! No one held a gun to their heads to run on a list with DK in Komárom-Esztergom County in Heves County, I'll say it again. [[Z. Kárpat to the governing parties: Write to his text calmly.]] I would like to talk about the biggest infringement, which has happened in the elections of the last year, because it was the Hungarian Movement, and neither the current system of electoral rights nor the amendment that has just been tabled gives us any opportunity to do so. In particular, the absolutely amazing censorship committed not only by Facebook and not only by Instagram, and not only by these multi-tech companies, but also by television in Hungary, the RTL Club. Each medium that is willing to publish the political advertising film of nominating organisations in the election is clearly described in the law, so it cannot be held accountable and, on the one hand, is obliged to communicate to the nominating organisation what it sends to the nominating organisation without any change. We also sent our election campaign film to the RTL Club before the elections to the European Parliament, and the RTL Club, completely ignoring the legislation, refused to give it up because of the word Gypsy Crime. Of course, we turned to the National Electoral Commission for redress and then turned to the courts, so we had a final judgment that RTL Klub had violated the electoral law and violated the electoral principles. And what did the RTL Club do? He still hasn't done anything! So without any consequences, Hungary's most viewed television can do nothing to ignore the electoral rules, how much attention to the electoral principles has been given in this case, and we cannot enforce our right in any way, because it will not continue to broadcast our campaign film. Interesting, no one is upset, no one's democratic sense is offended. If there is any violation of the Hungarian Movement against us, then no Member so sensitive to democracy, so sensitive to the rule of law, raises his voice because they clearly set double standards on their own political basis. [[15.10]] So I ask you, both the Fidesz and the Balliberal side, to end both hypocrisy and electoral fraud, not to deceive people, not to win elections by buying votes, but to fight with one another in the interests of the Hungarian people on a fair, programme-based and debate-based basis in the 2022 elections. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-18-170	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to welcome my fellow Members. Dear Parliament, It will now be the voice of the minority spokesperson invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to the Bulgarian ethnic advocate Varga Simeon, who will give his speech here on the stand and present the first sentences of his speech in his ethnic language, and then translate it into Hungarian, and finish again in his language of nationality. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-171	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Уважаеми господин ПредĂседаел, Уважаеми Народно Събрание! Позвоãлете ми да ви приздравяот името на Малцинстòвената комисия в Унгария и involving моето име. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Allow me, on behalf of the Committee on Nationalities in Hungary and myself, to welcome you. Allow me to begin by thanking doctors, nurses, volunteers and everyone for their persistent and sacrificing work on behalf of Hungarian nationalities in the protection and cure of the coronal virus epidemic. I would like to inform the Parliament that our committee is T/13679. On 16 November 2020, the draft law amending individual electoral laws was discussed and delivered its opinion with 12 votes in favour, no votes against and no abstentions. Before that, on 11 November 2020, the Sub-Committee on Government, Foreign Affairs and Budget of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary, which met under my Presidency, held a meeting, to which was invited by the new President of the National Election Office, Dr. Attila Nagy, who, in addition to his presentation, gave detailed information on the day after the submission of the bill, held a detailed briefing by T/13679. on the national provisions of the bill amending individual electoral laws. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Among the proposals for amendments before us, the provisions concerning nationalities are as follows: On the one hand, the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. The amendment of the Act eliminates the problem that the electoral committee will not be aware of the resignation of the national minority representative, with the new provision that the body of representatives or the general assembly shall inform the electoral committee of the resignation within one working day, in the event of oral resignation after the meeting, in the event of written resignation after its receipt. This may also be important, since when the resignation took place, the election committee learned about this case later. On the other hand, the 2013 XXXVI on the electoral procedure. The following amendments to the Act on nationalities: 1. Up until the 75th day before the election, when the election of the general minority self-government had to be held, which would in principle prevent the establishment of a local self-government election, which would have to be set at minus 70 days. It is proposed that national minority self-government elections should be set up until the day minus 69 in the future, in any event after the local self-government elections have been set. 2. The removal from the national minority register was possible until 2 days prior to the election, and in practice it may have been possible to remove others from the register without the person concerned knowing about it. According to the new provision, this is possible until the 16th day before the election, and with this amendment, the voter who has been removed from the register has a chance to re-enter the register. 3. There is currently no conflict of interest rule with regard to national minority observers participating in the elections. According to the amending proposal, it would not be possible, in future, to be a nationality observer who is a delegated member of the ballot counting committee. 4. The statements of the candidate for nationality and the verification of the earlier nationality marking are currently made at the time of the notification of the candidate, but it may be that he has collected recommendations as a candidate who is not entitled to leave. According to the amendment, these declarations and verification should be made when applying for the recommendation form. 5. The second free edition of the electoral register under the current rules can take place on the 35th day before the election, which is Sunday. It is advisable to do this on a weekday, which would be Friday, the 38th day before the election. 6. Votes must always be delivered to local election offices, which is unnecessary in a single-voting settlement, as the local electoral committee itself counts on the spot, so the regulations have to be adapted to this: in a single-voting settlement, there is no need to put and transport green envelopes. If more settlements belong to a local election office, it is also unnecessary to deliver them to the local election office, because the local election committee counts them locally at the member settlement, so they must not be delivered to the local election office, but to the local electoral committee. 7. It was also proposed to facilitate the counting of votes. At present, the local electoral committee or the regional election committee is counting, but if it turns out in practice that more people are needed, the new regulation will allow the support of the voting counting committee members for alternates, the office and the local electoral committee. 8. Finally, in the event of the dissolution or dissolution of the minority body of representatives, the central budget will advance the costs of the interim election if the national government does not have coverage for this, we have heard it from Mr Vejkey in his speech. According to the President of the National Election Office, further measures are planned to facilitate the smoother conduct of national elections. These would be: in the field of informing voters, the electoral notice will be supplemented by a request from the electorate to ask the electorate for the electoral ballot; a special poster will be drawn up on the process of voting on the nationality, on which the information would be even more pronounced; in the case of the preparation of the members of the ballot counting committee and the organisation of the new members, the electoral booklet for voting counting committee members will give even more emphasis to the information; a separate brochure is planned to be made available to election offices, in which it is simply supported by pictures, which type of ballot paper should be given and may be distributed to the members of the committee. The cooperation between the National Election Office and the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary is very welcome, as a result of which there is not only a legislative solution to the problems that arise in practice. Previous amendments to electoral legislation have also resulted in better rules for nationalities, such as the introduction of a general voting option rather than a separate electoral district, which requires greater attention and care from the law-makers because of envelopes and accounting rules of different colours, but allows for wider participation, which will make the right to self-determination of nationalities even more complete. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Overall, T/13679 is listed as follows: The amendments contained in the bill amending individual electoral laws are welcomed and proposed by the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary. Благодаря завашето внимание! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-172	Thank you very much, Mr Speaker. We now have two-minute speeches. First I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyüre, the notary of Parliament. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-173	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Imre Vejkey's speech as the lead speaker made me speak about the fake parties. [[15.20]] I note that who introduced the possibility that these parties could start, who introduced the possibility that these parties would collect hundreds of millions of forints, who had an interest in launching these parties? Well, obviously it was yours, you brought in this legislation, it was you who came up with it, it was you who organized it, and it was you who applauded, in case you lost 1 percent, 2 percent of those parties from the opposition parties, and how good it would be for us. In the same way, now they want to put that particular thing in our necks, in the neck of the opposition, as if we were protesting that the fake parties should be eliminated. The same parallel, in the same way: with Mr Secretary of State, we had the debate on the prison business that you introduced, you were the ones who solved the possibility of having the home compensation issue in Hungary, you were the ones who introduced it, and you were the ones who did nothing to help these prisons recover, and then, how interesting, you said at once that the situation could be solved in six months, and you paid HUF 9 billion in five years. The same is the case now with the fake parties, which have already been supported, which have been paid billions of public money, with Hungarian taxpayers' money, and now it is said that this is in the interest of the opposition. No, you don't! You invented this as part of a political power game, and now you're trying to put it back on the opposition. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-18-174	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr László Szakács. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I have a proper comment, I'd like to respond to a few things, and that's what I can say. The fake parties have benefited you so far, that's why you let them. How many of them were caught in the neck? None. They've always let them. I'm gonna tell you this for a longer time, maybe later. They're getting pregnant for some reason. So you're gonna blame this on us? That wasn't before you guys. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You protect him!]] This has not been done before, and I think that this is precisely why it is not worth referring to; nor does it mean that Parliament is meeting normally. We listened to Imre Vejkey. Ladies and Gentlemen, You have to say it many times: no. That's not true, because then there would be interpellations, then the Parliament would normally meet in order. These are all agreements relating to the period of the pandemic, but the rules that you bring in here generally do not apply to the pandemic, but precisely so that, somewhere under the blanket of the pandemic, you can quickly arrange what is important to you, so you are now pouring one piece of legislation in here after another. To the representative of our country, who is sitting here with Jobbik's mandate, I would say that the '30s are over, we do not have the right to vote, it was another world. You may have liked it better, but it passed almost a hundred years ago. What we can only support is that if suffrage is general, secret and equal, and there is no kind of censorship to support any party, I don't think it's XXI. In Europe of the century. I don't think we should even bring that up. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2020-11-18-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech will also be held by Mr Imre Vejkey, from the KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-177	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear left-wing Factions! Their narrative of the bill on the amendment of electoral laws is simply false and false. It is just as false and false as their coordinated disinformation campaign against Hungary in the Western press. You, MSZP, DK, Jobbik, LMP, Dialogue have issued a joint communication calling on Brussels to find a solution to play the Hungarian veto. Amazing! The fact is that while we, Fidesz-KDNP, protect the Hungarian people, you, on the left, would take the side of Brussels again. On the side of Brussels, which wants to create a forceful blackmail instrument whose ultimate goal is to force illegal immigrants onto us. And one more, ladies and gentlemen, I still have some time. We were not the ones who wanted the fake parties, as you say again, falsely, because we are always on the side of the law, we are on the side of the rule of law, and we have never supported the abuse of law. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-11-18-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next two-minute speaker is Mrs Dóra Dúró. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-179	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond to Congressman Cook's suggestion. According to the Hungarian Movement, suffrage would remain common even if we introduced this link to primary school education, for example, in several states of Europe there are, say, 16 years of voting age. Compared to that, an 18-year-old age is considered to be age-related. So suffrage is also common even if the age limit to which it is linked is higher. The question is that the practice that has developed in Hungary over the past 30 years is an expression of popular will, and you are aware of that, and the Fidesz people are aware of it, and we see that they are not. I have also given a specific example where, without consequences, a vote was taken to a mayor's seat in Hungary. The court has ruled that, yes, this mayor has purchased his votes from more voters than this mayor has won the election by the vote. In English, if this practice of buying votes could not be pursued in Hungary, for example, it would be a good tool to do so by linking the right to vote to a basic school degree, then this fraud would not have happened, and in many other cases these frauds would not have happened. We believe that our homeland movement believes that, in order for someone to be responsible for the management of the country, the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the European Parliament and of the Council, the European Parliament and the Council adopted a resolution on the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union and on the implementation of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) on the Functioning of the European Union, the Unfortunately, it is also the result of the quality of the education system today that the proportion of illiterates, even in secondary schools, shows an increasing trend, and this is a disaster. We now believe that anyone who is responsible for interfering with the country's leadership is expected to at least be able to read and write so that he can obtain information. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-18-180	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The last two-minute speaker in this round is Mr László Keresztes, leader of the LMP Group.
u2020-11-18-181	Thank you, Mr. President. I think I will respond to Mr Vejkey's speech just now in a normal speech, although he was talking about immigration policy here. I don't know, it was the Brussels dictatorship that, with the settlement bonds, you allowed thousands of people, tens of thousands of people into Hungary without real, substantive control, or some kind of dictatorship, that you did everything you could to reduce the causes of migration, such as the effects of climate change. I understand your policy, by the way. Next to Pécs, Martonfa, you wanted to set up a temporary reception camp, we protested against dictators. But I'll deal with that in more detail. In fact, my question would be why, if you think that it is necessary to take action against fake parties, there are no measures in this bill that would actually be against the operation of fake parties, and if you gave them the opportunity, the legal opportunities to act against fake parties. How do you see how successful the government has so far been to act against the fake parties in its electoral system and to recover the huge amount of money that these fake parties have stolen from the Hungarian people? I have one more question. I don't mean to be mean, Congressman, but we're talking about fake parties. When was the last time KDNP started the election on its own? When was one single candidate single-handedly elected to Parliament? Thank you very much.
u2020-11-18-182	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. A proper speech will come from the Fidesz Group, Mr Sigmond Barna Pál. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, What is really important is what is said by pro-government speakers and by the secretary of state that, despite the epidemic, Parliament is operating and that it is making the rules that are necessary for the country to function. [[15.30]] Let us recall that in many cases you have lied that the Hungarian Parliament is not working, now that it is working, so long as the Hungarian people are defending themselves, you will report the country to Brussels and international institutions, instead of doing things for the Hungarian people, working and, for example, not holding political expeditions to this legislation. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] but make substantive proposals to this House. [[Z. Kárpát Dániel: Luxury Yacht!]] In recent years, we have amended several pieces of legislation, and all these laws have served the interests of the Hungarian people. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] The government also indicated in relation to the electoral law [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] Let me tell you. , indicated that you are planning to amend this law. Non-essential amendments are being made to this legislation, since the foundations of the electoral system do not change; details are being changed, as the colleagues have explained in detail, the pro-government representatives have presented in detail what rules are changing. I'd like to highlight a few, three areas. The question of the letter was raised. There is a situation in which more than 40,000 letter votes, 15 percent of the letter votes were invalid, so it would be our joint responsibility to change the rules so that there are more valid votes, because this is our common interest, our common responsibility is that the legislation aims to ensure that citizens are able to vote validly, regardless of whether they live within or outside the borders, and if they have to intervene, try to establish rules that fit in with the Hungarian Fundamental Law, the Hungarian legal system, and otherwise serve to ensure that voters are able to vote validly, do not have any impact on their vote. This amendment also serves this purpose in relation to envelopes, without doubt, that you do not like it. This aim, however, will probably be achieved with an amendment, so it may be appropriate to leave this envelope system, but, for example, its validity can also be achieved by leaving the birth name of the identification declaration, which appears there, which is unnecessary data content in addition to the name of the citizen and other data, and may cause confusion. For example, it is also possible to obtain more valid votes. With regard to the fake parties, it was called upon by all factions, opposition groups, to say why the government does not hold the fake parties accountable. It's a matter of justice. Our job as legislators is to make rules that push out those who want to abuse the Hungarian electoral system, and the regulation that is in front of us with regard to the fake parties is precisely this, so that as few people are able to abuse these provisions. In terms of photography, someone here discussed that photography should not be taken, but it can be made public, so the only way to make it public is to have the Dog Party's action at the European Court of Human Rights. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] The judgment of the court, however much you do not like, must be enforced by a country where appropriate. Hungary is a member of the European Convention on Human Rights, in this sense we are bound by the judgment of the Strasbourg Court, so that we must implement it, and in this sense we will introduce photography and the publication of voting. I'd like to respond to some opposition reactions. I find it regrettable, I repeat, that the proposal was not very much said or not made, with the exception of political expos, with the exception of our fellow Member, Mr Varga Simeon, or spokesperson, who gave a very detailed account of what the legislation contains, for example, in terms of nationality. Several detailed rules, minor technical rules, have been amended, as the Secretary of State reported, which is important for even more transparent, even simpler, even more effective organisation of elections. My fellow Member Csaba Gyüre has made false claims. I didn't understand exactly that you reported on Jobbik's campaign tools. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] when reporting on the techniques used in the vote [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Don't be cynical! You're cheats!]] and I repeat, instead of legislating and proposing a political exposition [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] The point was that Fidesz was responsible for everything. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: The potatoes are on sale! You're cheats!]] Fidesz is probably responsible for the virus. They probably can't get rid of their potato phobias, which somehow keeps them at bay, and I think it must have been very unpleasant for you to feel sorry for me. When Dóra Dúró told me what he thought of Jobbik. It must have been very difficult to listen to those allegations. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Refer to the premium!]] what our fellow Member Dóra Dúró said about Jobbik. Tamás Harangozó once again began by saying that the problem is that Parliament is working, and earlier he told the international press that the Hungarian Parliament is not working. He referred here to the previous proposal of the President of the NVI, and he said that he would terminate the registration of those who did not exercise their voting rights twice. This is an anti-law proposal, as it could be said in practice that those who did not take part in the vote twice would lose their right to vote, so it would be equally against the law, as Dóra Dúró said here in relation to the censorship. Our Fundamental Law clearly sets out the way to what can and cannot be done, this is an anti-law proposal in my view, and it should be noted. With regard to photos, I must say once again that we must implement the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights by the opposition Dog Party, otherwise, this matter has been initiated before the international court, before the Human Rights Court, we must implement it, this is what the legislative amendment is about. At the end of his expo, he said the Fidesz was cheating the country. Well, it was you who tricked the country, who could do anything for money and power, and who brought this country into crisis. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Media!]] Moreover, at the end of his expo, he has not threatened us from this height, which is not appropriate, I think, to the spirit of this House. Our fellow harvester began in a similar tone, perhaps even more vehemently than Mr Bellozó. He told me that the problem is if we work, or if we don't work, I don't understand what's wrong at times, but... According to our fellow harvester, Fidesz is responsible for everything. He referred to America as a photographer here. I've had a bit of a stop in my heart that America can be referred to in many respects, but perhaps from the point of view of the functioning of the electoral law, it may not be appropriate now, because we can see what is happening there, what disputes, what lawsuits are taking place, and what is expected in the next period of the electoral law. He said that the president of the NVI said in the letter voting dimension about the votes of Hungarians across the border that others could vote. That's not what the president of NVI said. He may have thought of America again, because there we hear of cases where others have voted, so they have abused the right to vote. And once again, it may be necessary to draw your attention to the fact that it is not good to look down on Hungarians across the border and think that anyone here is trying to mislead Hungarians across the border. No one wants to mislead them. Perhaps Congressman Arato is not credible on this issue. He also referred to the OSCE for saying that the OSCE did not have access to state resources. That's not true either. The aim of this is party financing, state funding, so that all parties have a chance to participate in the election. This is a democratic fundamental right, with which the legislator and the executive aim to give support to parties in order to campaign, so that they have a chance to run for election. He also asked for the non-public register of Hungarians across the border. Yeah, that's an interesting national security issue. I think that it is not appropriate for certain countries, some services to know who is in this register. There have been quite a number of disadvantages for Hungarians across the border in recent years, and this should not put them in a vulnerable position. Clearly, this register is not public. Mr Crusade spoke of everything, perhaps everything, and he also made a political plea against Fidesz, and he also used the expression "the fundamental amendment" as well. This is not a fundamental amendment. The essence of the electoral law, the essence of the electoral procedure, is not changed. Detail rules are being amended, technical issues are being changed. If you had listened to our fellow Member Varga Simeon's exposé, he talked about a lot of issues, as the Secretary of State did in his expozee, or our lead speaker also described in detail in the expoe the detailed rules concerning either the repetition or the issue of nationality, in relation to the appeal, the annulment of documents, deletion of the register, the use of campaign tools, the ballot counting committee, the resignation, and I could list the small details of which I did not hear criticisms from you, as I heard political pamflets and political attacks, but no substantive criticism of the details and technical rules. What you said, however, was an important question that I disagree with, and I think you should reconsider, saying that anyone who lives abroad cannot vote in a letter. Yes, you can. If a person lives abroad and has his residence abroad, because if a person lives in a way of life somewhere, then he must have his place of residence, at that moment the Hungarian citizen of London can vote in a letter. If your place of residence is in Hungary, you can vote in person, and otherwise you can vote in person... [[Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding.]] [[Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding.]] I'd say there's fifty more representation than there were four years ago. (Dr. László Keresztes intervenes.) There are many possibilities, therefore, that if you wish to vote in person, you can go to one of the foreign representations where everything is at your disposal, and anyone who can vote in person can vote for one individual candidate and the list, and those who vote in a letter can only vote on a list, we know the system. [[15.40]] And emigration is not typical at all today. If we look at the family support tools introduced by the Hungarian government, whether by the CSOK, car shopping, free education, health care, catering, then this package is comparable overall, if we compare the standard of living to Western European countries and given the significant wage increases that have taken place over the past period, this is certainly comparable. That's why more and more people are coming home, more people are coming home now than they are leaving. I think it's a welcome phenomenon. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Everyone laughs at what you say!]] I'm not laughing. On the last occasion, the Estonian demographic figures, the country where the population has fallen most in the last thirty years, have been an example. So much for the reality of your statement. I'd only respond briefly to Szabó Timea because he's accusing me of lying. This is nothing new from Szabó Timea. I'm curious to hear they're launching a petition. They will probably want to collect data, thus preparing for the elections, probably illegally, as usual, by circumventing data protection and other legislation. We're used to the fact that Szabó Timea is not disturbed, and it was them, along with Benedek Jávor, who supported the virus denies, not us. We heard words like, "He's mean, he's sneaky, he's a coward, he's tricky, he's terrified." I think this tells me everything about the political bullshit that took place on Szabó Timea instead of a legal debate. Finally, I would like to respond to Dóra Dúró. I would urge Dóra Dúró to be cautious because it is not appropriate, and I refuse to sound against the gypsy. Thank God, the Gyurcsány government has ended the Gyurcsány Gypsy murder period. We don't want those days to come back. Nor would I like us to leave the scope of the European Convention on Human Rights, even if I, as a member of the European Council delegation, am concerned that the court is under the influence of the Soros NGOs. In this regard, I have asked the Ministerial Committee on several occasions why they are not doing anything against the fact that the Soros NGOs have brought the European Court of Human Rights into the European Court of Human Rights, and this violates the impartiality of the court and the principles of justice. I don't want us to reshape the electoral system and introduce censorship. The Hungarian electoral system is based on universal and equal suffrage, and the election age varies from country to country, it is not the electoral censorship, but an objective limit. In this respect, different countries have different practices. Overall, I support the proposal, and I think that this bill will contribute to making our electoral system even more effective, more democratic. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. Among those registered in writing, the next speaker was Mr Nacsa Lőrinc, from the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-185	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to respond to some of the very wild statements and lies that have been said, if I may use more powerful words in opposition space in the last hour and a half. You generally refer to yourself in the press as the democratic opposition who is ready to debate. Well, Mr Bellozó and Mr Szabó Timea show well that at the moment when they spoke, they rushed out of the Chamber so that there could not be a dispute with them, after a number of sentences were said in their 15-15-minute speeches that I would ask you that I should ask you, and I would like to ask you, '--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Well, they ask questions without asking the answers and storming out of the room. Congressman Arato has instructed György Szilágyi to say something before, so the unit has come together and we will listen to what will happen. I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that the criticism against you, the association with Ferenc Gyurcsány, and his help in power hurt you. I agree with Mrs Dóra Dúró on this subject on many things I do not agree, but I very much agree that you are yelling here, you are hurting that you are being spoken out to the public of Parliament many times and often that you have become left-wing Members and that you are helping Ference Gyurcsány into power. But, Congressmen, you are both Vice-Presidents of this 6.5 percent party, so do something with your runaway ship cannon boss not to go along with the Gyurcsány Pact, but not to make an alliance with Ferenc Gyurcsány. How do I know you're left-wing representatives? Csaba Gyüre kicked the Hungarians across the border in his speech, kicked the church leaders, the church communities, and said that we abolished the institution of the referendum. Mr. Congressman has referred to Western states before. Well, it's the Netherlands where they stopped the referendum because it bothered the political elite that people made two decisions against them. Therefore, they said that a disturbing factor was the referendum and that it was abolished by law. Your allies wanted a referendum initiative on free testing a month ago, so it is possible to initiate a referendum in Hungary, issue a referendum and complicate a referendum. By the way, in 2016, we did a similar thing that you cowardly backed out of, but you don't remember that much. When did the fake party surface, and when did the fake party phenomenon appear? Well, the 2006 election. You can't remember that because you started with MIÉP, you still had principles and something to represent, but you can't go back to the collective memory. In 2006, there were 15 parties, 15 parties, honourable Members, four of them that did not receive a thousand votes, and four others that did not reach the threshold of 5,000 votes. They were fake parties, there will be, and we need to be tougher on them so that they have as little leeway as possible and we can reduce this phenomenon as much as possible. Once again, there were eight parties that didn't reach 5,000 votes nationwide, and four of them didn't make it to the thousand. Csaba Gyüre, as a lawyer, said that there were legal irregularities in the electoral system, and, as an example, he mentioned that the Prime Minister's departure was either individual or not. Where is it written in the law that the Prime Minister must go? At least put it as a lawyer in a more exact way, because I don't think it's right. You criticize us because the electoral system is simple for Gyurcsány versus Orbán. Well, you did this, Congressman. You are behind Ferenc Gyurcsány, you have decided to bring the man against whom Jobbik has been strengthened and established. You have decided to stand behind him, and this simplifies, for the most part, a three- or a little more pole policy. Well, that was your choice. Talk to your party president, talk to your party leader, the vice president sits next to you with three, talk to him to change course. He says we're changing the electoral law during the pandemic. Congressman, I have some bad news. We don't determine when the pandemic will break out and when it will end. The electoral law can be amended by 1 January of the year before the election. It is logical to see that, since Parliament has to work, Members of Parliament have to work, and from now on you can logically conclude that there is still room for this. I have drawn from the speeches of the left-wing representatives, from Csabae Gyure, László Lóránté Keresztes, especially from Timea Szabó, Tamás Harangozó and Gergely Arató, that your problem is clear and simple: they are angry with the voters. Their problem is that the voters did not choose you in 2010, 2014 and 2018. You take your anger out on the voters, and you never make a mistake on your own. This can be seen very well from the Jobbik communication published on the evening of the Szerencs election, in which they wrote, imagine, the Jobbiks wrote in their announcement that in a democratic election system the opposition candidate would have won. For Jobbik, it is the democratic electoral system where the person who receives more than 50% of the votes is not the one who receives the mandate, but the one to whom Peter James points out. [[György Szilágyi: Potato!]] Put on the mask, and then I'll listen to it. You believe that the electoral system is democratic, where Peter James can tell us who won. We don't want any of this democracy. We accept the Member who has received the votes of the majority of the voters. We think that's what democracy means, even if you don't agree. I understand that Csaba Gyüre has listed the voting techniques of Jobbik. I didn't know any of these wild techniques, but I understand now that you're using these techniques. I also understand that they look down on public workers and how they are threatened, and I do not know what other words the congressman has used. I'm glad you've exposed your cards, so at least we're playing more openly, and we know what kind of election machinations Jobbik is about to do, but the picture you've outlined is pretty alarming, that they're going to do this, or have that experience from the past. [[15.50]] I would like to signal to the representatives of the MSZP, Mr Bellozó, who spoke about Roma votes and Gypsy votes on election fraud, that, if you remember, by 2002-2006, the honourable Member and what recordings were made public. How Ferenc Juhász had to explain how he had an office and what he had been promised to Gypsy voters, and how he had been proven by recordings of how you tried to machine with them. You've suggested that KDNP has been around, and here you've started making fun of my party a little bit. Well, KDNP is a 76-year-old historical party, and you'll tell us whether from 1919 or 44 we should expect their party to be seen in a historical perspective, and then from which Communist Party, the 19-year-old or the 44-year-old party to expect the ideology and existence of the MSZP. But we know you're pros, the blue tag election has also been managed by your spiritual ancestors. He told a viral doctor his name, and I'm not telling him not to do an ad for him, Tamás Bellozó said so. This is the virus-denial doctor to whom Benedek Jávor, your Brussels emissary, made a free ad in social media a month ago when he promoted the post of this dangerous virus-rejecting man to thousands and tens of thousands of people in a humorous post. The same Jávor Benedek, a partymate of Szabó Timea, said that this is a relatively harmless epidemic that we are now facing. At DK, we are not surprised that he is kicking again at cross-border voters and Hungarians across the border. It's a little more surprising for Jobbik, but not for DK. Let us make it clear what the OSCE said in 2018! That it was a clear, transparent, professional choice, that was in the OSCE statement, and he said that he did not like rhetoric in the campaign. But, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of who likes rhetoric in the campaign, who doesn't... I didn't always like what you said, but this is a private opinion. It does not concern the purity of the electoral system, how sharp or harsh rhetoric is in the campaign, or how determined or what the level of public speaking is. Well, I'd be happy if what we've been listening to here from Szabó Timea and his associates has a higher level of public speaking. So, once again, the OSCE said that the election was clear, transparent and professional, and that there were equal opportunities. We were talking about fake parties. Make an amendment to this law. There's until tomorrow afternoon, if I understand correctly, but the President will tell you at the end of the debate. Make an amendment if you have an opinion on the boundaries of the constituencies. Minister Gulyás also said that Parliament's unity is necessary in this regard. Let's look forward to your amendment. DK raised campaign funding and referred to election fraud. Mr Arató didn't talk about it because when he came to this subject, I was very much looking forward to hearing how the papers from their burned-down headquarters had disappeared for the SAO's account of what the bitcoin mine was used for in Erzsébetváros, and what kind of campaign funding it might have been good for, how many of their local governments would contract with a criminal lawyer and what would happen to those funds. I thought you were going to talk about this when you talked about transparency and campaign funding, but unfortunately that didn't happen. I would say to Lóránt László Keresztes, head of the LMP Group, that we have argued here several times about the statements made by his president. But not so long ago, he was asked a question, right on the opposition list, and he said that if there really was a demand for it, this would be the direction. Well, it's not worth denying as LMPs that you want a list. That's what he wrote, that's the demand, that's the direction. It's as simple as that. This is your party president. You chose him, not me. I haven't been to their 78th Congress in years. So, honourable Members, don't blame us for how you want to run for election, how you want to take part in the 2022 parliamentary elections. Szabó Timea complained that it was filed at night, that this law was filed at night. So in the evening, after dark, you can make a run at the public media headquarters, throw smoke grenades at policemen, burn sledges, all of them can be done as elected representatives, one cannot be done: otherwise, you can exercise the right to submit the law, both to the government and, by the way, to the Members of Parliament. You don't think that can be done. Everything can be done, set on fire, run around the public media headquarters, throwing cops, but no law can be filed. [[Continue in 168/2!]] 2018-2022. parliamentary term Budapest, Wednesday 18 November 2020 168/2. Number Parliamentary Diary Congressmen, ladies! The legislative provisions of this Parliament are perfectly clear: the legislative proposals received until 23 hours 59 and 24 hours respectively, as Parliament's operation has changed to an electronic system in connection with the submission of legislation, the ParLex system, is a valid submission. Everyone can submit a bill whenever they want. I find it very harmful that in November 2020 you will start building up your narrative that you have either won or cheated. It is very, very undemocratic that Congressman Bellozó now uses words like this on a regular basis, and he is trying to build this in the left-wing narrative that either you win or there has been fraud. A significant majority of people have entrusted the Fidesz-KDNP government with trust and power in 2010, 2014 and 2018, and you are now saying that if you do not win, it will be a fraud that you are the depositaries of power. By the way, stop insulting electoral groups, cross-borders, church communities, public workers, or anyone else. I don't think that's good. Finally, I would like to say that, yes, this amendment of the law helps to combat fake parties, which, moreover, has been the subject of legitimate opposition criticism here in Parliament on several occasions in recent years, and there has also been pro-government criticism. Since so far, 27 candidates had to be launched for the national list, which required the collection of 13 500 recommendations, this will now be 50, where at least 25,000 recommendations need to be collected. I think that if you're serious about leaving, 50 candidates in nine counties plus the capital, I think that's a serious number of candidates, that's the line we've drawn. Of course, there's something else to suggest. But I think that, as we have raised this line, this will help us to ensure that those fake parties who have been able to meet only a few places or only a minimum will now have almost twice as much to accomplish, that those who want to start the parliamentary elections seriously think that they should have the goal of getting into Parliament and representing their constituents. If this does not succeed, of course it is in the cards, the voters will decide, but anyone who starts the parliamentary elections thinks seriously that he wants to work for Hungary and for the interests of the Hungarian people. Fidesz-KDNP started this way in every election so far, in every election it thought that it wanted to represent the Hungarian national interest and the interests of the Hungarian people, and thanks to God, and thanks to the voter's trust, this has been achieved in the government in recent years. We want this electoral law to be adopted by consensus, and we want people to honor us with their trust after the 2022 election, to continue working for them, to continue working for the rise of the nation. That's what we're gonna do. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-18-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Szakács, from the MSZP Group, is coming to a proper speech. Here you go, Congressman. Then you'll have a two-minute window.
u2020-11-18-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I mean, how is that supposed to be polite? After splashing, let's start or continue with a series of comments, I think, with something higher, while maintaining the authority of the Parliament and the historical coat of arms. Let's thank everyone who's still working on the control of the coronal virus epidemic. Let us thank them for their perseverance, for their hard work, and also for those who need to be without it now because of the measures caused by the coronal virus epidemic, and they have to endure a lot of things. I also brought this here to find a way to get the debate back into a normal tone, and I brought it here because imagine that many of you have called me today, too, what the Parliament does in hospitality, in hotels, and to raise your voice for them. I mean, it's that you guys are gonna want to pay up to half your salary someday, and now you have a form, but you don't have a place to file yet, and the other half can't be paid by your current employer, who, apparently, is going to be ruined and asked, "What are you doing in Parliament, Laci?" And then I was able to tell them that, well, we're going to be discussing the electoral law today. Well, I'm ashamed of you, too, that we're going to be arguing about this today, and why we're not discussing how you're making the district offices more qualified to get the filled-in forms in as soon as possible, and not even to spread the rumor that the wages you've announced may only be financed by 50% of them, and neither do you, nor do entrepreneurs, that the other 50 will be paid only in June next year. [[16.00]] I trust that's not true. People are terrified of it, and they're not interested in the electoral law. For this reason, I think that those who are working to control the epidemic should have great thanks, and those who are without such measures should also have great respect for them. I have already told you that Imre Vejkey said that Parliament is meeting well, and that is not the case. I can't help but not reacting to Imre Vejkey telling me that they were always on the side of the law. Dear fellow Member, when the bald men cut István Nyakó out of the Election Office, where were you? Where were you on the side of the law when it was not possible to properly exercise democracy in Hungarian popular representation, because the bald people blocked the way? [[Dr. Pál Völner: Submitted!]] You lay low until Viktor Orbán came home and closed his eyebrows. Until then, they lay low. Well, don't joke about these things. Where are you on the side of the law? Come on. Fake parties. There may have been eight other parties that started in the 2006 elections. I am giving my own experience in 2014, because I started in my constituency with a vote sheet of 104 centimeters in length, my honourable fellow Member. There was a party, a professional door. It's a precinct that's either-or-precinct, you know, there's a lot of struggle there, so you started everyone you could touch. They gave them money, they demanded it back, and when they didn't, they disappeared, and you said, "Well, that's it." What's happened since then? Did you touch them? Did they get the money back? Well, how are you on the side of the law? You're on your own side in an infinitely simple way. They say I heard Imre Vejkey say that it's a controversial question that someone can take a picture of his ballot now or not take a picture of it, and it needs to be fixed. I never thought I'd say this today, but you're right about that. But by allowing it? By doing so, allowing room for what we are all struggling to avoid electoral fraud?! By allowing it? Why not ban it? Why not punish him? Why not like that? [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Strasbourg!]] Then fight this battle, because this may well be worth a tough battle with Strasbourg in addition to the schnapps. And it's not in that judgment, and you know it, and I know it. At least let's not continue this deaf conversation anymore. It wasn't about that, it was about making it public, or it couldn't be made public. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Freedom of opinion! Intercoms from the pro-government benches. The president's gonna ring the bell.]] There's one more thing I want to tell you. Why is this an important question? It passed a little over a year ago when you cheated on Komlo. The Court held that Fidesz had cheated and that the results of the election had to be eliminated in two electoral districts. You know what they did? They had the public workers and the voters take pictures of the ballots. It was a court-ordered verdict. And after October 19th, on November 10th, the election ended in Komlo because you cheated. What are you gonna do about it? May I? It's a perfect self-discovery. I think it would be worth doing to stop them from doing so. Make sure the Hungarian public is more clear with this. If someone sues us, sues the Hungarian state, then act and defend the position that public life and the purity of the election require that the ballot paper cannot be photographed, let alone allowed to do so. It's a letter vote. You've already crossed the line before an initiative. They didn't even come to the debate day when we told them that you are the good voters for you, that you are making it easier for Hungarians across the border to vote indefinitely, but for the emigrated Hungarians who, in your opinion, went on an adventure mission, we believe that because they couldn't sustain their lives in Hungary because of you, they had to travel 100 kilometers, in case of working hours, so that they could go to a Hungarian foreign representation to give their votes in person there. We said that such a distinction cannot be made between a vote and a vote and that such a distinction cannot be made between a voter and a voter. Why can't a man in Manchester and London vote in the same way, and I don't know where else to work, and in Germany, so that he can live, who has gone abroad in the hope of a better life. You have laid down before this proposal, and the Hungarians across the border would be able to make it even easier to vote again. In fact, now, if the mailman goes around collecting these letters, anyone can fill it out. We believe that, for example, this rule should be changed. It would be worth changing, so once again, to make it easier to remember, on the regulation of photography, do not allow it to be forbidden, if so, to be sanctioned. If you have to go to court to get it, fight it. The votes of Hungarians living outside the borders should be equally equal. It is not possible to make it easier for one to cast his vote and for the other to make it difficult indefinitely. This shows an ambition on your part. You do not believe that voters cannot be replaced, and you want to replace voters. There are 600-700 thousand voters who do not live in Hungary. For them, because they had to leave Hungary in the hope of a better life or even in the hope of a livelihood, they made it difficult for them to live forever... [[To opposition representatives at one of the entrances to the Chamber:]] I'm sorry, I don't want to interrupt private conversations with my speech. So they are being made infinitely difficult by making voting easier for others, and for Hungarians living beyond the border. Let's make it the same. Let everyone vote in a letter. I am sure that someone who works abroad lives somewhere, so, as my fellow Member has said, this can certainly be done. Then there was so much more going on here. It was amazing how my colleague Nacha was worried about Jobbik. He said that the referendum was forbidden in the Netherlands. They didn't send any bald guys? They really did, so they passed a law on him, not by sending bald guys out there who wanted to put in a referendum initiative to protect democracy in the People's Union, so they took it, sent a bunch of bald guys to stop what they did. So I think you have something to bring in in in this regard. Don't tell me you've always been on the side of the law. I gave you the example, told you we won. Dear fellow Member Vejkey, you were dissipated twice a year ago, weekly, in the same voting circle. First it's because they had the Fidesz flyers delivered by public workers, because if they didn't, they wouldn't have that day signed. There's a court order. Second, because you had to take a picture of the ballot. And then there was a man who had to pay off his debt, because imagine that he had expired on that very day, to every voter. That's what the court ruled, and you were condemned. More modesty! [[Csaba Hende: Not me!]] More modesty in this matter, I think. Instead, they should set rules that will help to make the choice clean. For example, I don't want to have a 6'2" ballot to stick with my own example. And if anyone goes to the elections, they'll have to be accounted for. I've been accounted for. I was able to account for every forint and penny. I'm not sure that the other thirty or a few candidates were equally accounted for, and I'll tell you something else, I'm sure you couldn't account for it. They didn't want it, they didn't want it. [[16.10]] Don't tell me you've been looking for these people for five or six years, and you just can't find them. They've been making hundreds of billions for five to six years, and you guys can't find it? ! Let's not joke about this. I want all the letter votes in order, so everyone can vote in the same way. These are two proposals that I think should be considered and introduced. One last thing we may agree on, and the representatives of our country sitting here with Jobbik's mandate are making jokes so that we don't tie it to censorship. Let's not tie suffrage to censorship in the first century. Suffrage in Hungary should remain general, remain equal, remain secret. My fellow Member Vejkey, who says he's on the side of the law, really stand there. Do not support a party that will be condemned in elections for what you are now fighting here. You really need to stand there and follow these rules. One last thing that was a little bit of a political burgeoning class. I am glad that the migration from Hungary seems to have stopped on that side. If this had stopped at all, it would have been the pandemic, my honourable fellow Member, and the borders closed. Along with what is always an ascending branch, it is that someone carries out, at least from us, from Baranya, those who work abroad, every week or two weeks or every month, if they can afford to come home; that our county, Baranya County, has slowly lost a tenth of its population, not to its declared population, but also to those who live there, because they are going abroad in the hope of a better life, they want to replace you. By the way, this was found out in the municipal elections. They've replaced the Fidesz municipal leaders. The reason they can't replace you in the parliamentary elections is because they're infinitely making it difficult for them to cast their votes, because they should go somewhere from work to vote for hundreds of kilometers, because they should travel home, go into the electoral district and vote there. I think they should make an equality mark in this. Let them vote as Hungarians living across the border, without further ado! I think they can do that. We therefore think that this proposal may not be timely, but if you say that it is timely, I say that it is not logical, it is not legal. It does not answer the questions that are important to the voters; it answers only what is important to you. Thank you so much for your attention.
u2020-11-18-188	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. First, Member Gergely Arató asked for the floor from the DK Group. Congressman Gergely Arató, notary of Parliament, please.
u2020-11-18-189	Thank you very much. To be honest, I rarely respond to Mr Nacsa's insults, because otherwise I could spend the entire day doing so, and I have more important things to do with me, perhaps with the House, but I must say one thing, however, that you are lying and slanderous when you talk about missing documents. If your neighbor's house burns down, do you call him a scoundrel? Shame on you for this, and please do not refer to the State Audit Office, on the one hand, because the State Audit Office has not mentioned any missing documents, on the other hand, the State Audit Office is managed by your former fellow Member and is operated as a political accountability chair, so your statements are not credible at all. But I must add, the Court of Auditors has found that we have not been able to present the documents, because what is burned cannot be presented, at least we do not know this method; if the Court of Auditors knows it, it is wonderful. Let me add one more thing: what we gave to the Court of Auditors earlier, he refused to give it to us, by the way, so let's leave it at that, it's a very weak and flat attempt. On the other hand, your memory I don't know, your memory, your reading experiences are incomplete: in 2006, there were 10 national lists, much less than in 14 or 18, there was a different electoral system, I wouldn't go into it, there was much less of a national list, but there was a very important difference, and this is the most important difference between [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] We didn't give these parties money then, and you're filling them with money. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-18-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Tamás Harangozó is next from the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-191	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, too, would like to respond to my colleague Nacsa. On the one hand, you must know that you are sitting here a lot, and the current rules are that the Members waiting to speak should be in the Chamber. Calm down, from not being here, I always listen to your slightly amusing but rather painful speeches. My fellow Member said things like that in Hungary because sometimes it can be fun to hold a referendum under your governance. Are you gonna write these down for you, or are you gonna tell me from the inside? [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] Tell me a referendum in the last ten years that wasn't initiated by the Fidesz and not by the government, and it's been held. I'd like to say one thing. I remember one, because I worked on it for a year with lawyers: that by bypassing all their scoundrels, we were trying to get them to hold a referendum on Sunday's lockdown. Do you remember that you introduced a time-stamping institution of the Fidesz-led election committee and office just to screw with the initiative? And when we practically got that out of court, did the bald thugs block the way through the front door by physical force? ! [[Intruder from Jobbik's ranks: Shame!]] Tell me something, who's been held accountable? The Home Office, who's been held accountable by the police for the restriction of personal liberty or disorderly conduct since then? Nobody! No referendum can be held here in Hungary as long as you are in government! And even now, they're making this very difficult with this bill. And you're free, because you're talking about historical perspectives and ramblings in comparison with our parties, but for some reason you didn't mention that, I ask you again: what percentage do you now measure the famous governing party called KDNP? [[Dr. Pál Völner: And the MSZP?]] How many members, how many organizations? As long as they're faking it all the time. Thank you.
u2020-11-18-192	Thank you very much. The next speaker was Mr Csaba Hende, Vice-President of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-193	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There has been a debate here between Mr Lóránt Keresztes and me on what the opposition parties have published together on this week's Monday. Well, in the meantime, I came up with the MTI communication, and this is what it says: the leaders of DK, Jobbik, Momentum, MSZP, LMP and Dialogue agreed, and I quote: the party presidents stated that, on the basis of the preparation schedule, the Democratic opposition association will be standing before the electorate on 23 October 2021 at the latest, with a joint candidate for Prime Minister and 106 joint candidates following the pre-elections. This obviously involves the common list, so what you were trying to deny is real. You said we would adapt the bill to your joint statement. That's not true. The bill was submitted last week, and you as party leaders made this statement on Monday. However, I stress that, in its present form, the bill also does not rule out making up two lists, although it would be quite interesting for 106 single candidates and for a joint candidate for Prime Minister, because which list does the joint candidate for Prime Minister lead? Politics has a certain logic, Congressman. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. From KDNP, Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I take it back that Mr Harangozó is not listening to the debate, then my comment only applies to Szabó Timea, and I kept it with him. Thank you, Mr Cook, for confirming that the fake parties did not start after 2010, because that is what they have said so far, but you have now confirmed that we have had this before, we can argue in many of them, but we have had this before, and I just wanted to ask you this. In the matter of photographing the ballots, honourable fellow Members, we have gone to the wall. The Court of Strasbourg passed a judgment, we did not leave it, the Hungarian State appealed, we went to the Grand Chamber, two years later than the opening of the trial, the second-degree court, the Grand Chamber, aggravated the fine, and thus condemned the election office and the Hungarian State in the Two-Dagging Dog Party case. We have done everything we can, and after the Grand Chamber of Human Rights in Strasbourg, we have nowhere to go further, honourable Member, and we must abide by the decision of the court. [[16.20]] Don't tell me we didn't go to the wall. Don't tell me we haven't tried every appeal forum because that's what happened. The Grand Chamber delivered this judgment and, moreover, aggravated the fine. Thank you. To Mr harvester, that he has clarified one issue, bitcoin mining is still not possible. Please stop that narrative I asked you before that there are two possible scenarios in 2022: either you win or we cheat. And by the way, even if you didn't win, you could have cheated. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-11-18-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the LMP Group, Mr László Lóránt Keresztes Group leader will take a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-18-197	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to respond to the words of Congressman Barna Pál Sigismund. I have said so many times here in the last two years, since I am a Member of Parliament, that I think it is the greatest tragedy that if someone leaves the country out of compulsion, we should talk about the mother country or the disconnected territories. I think that the biggest common national challenge now is to remain in the homeland, and this is a shared responsibility in the entire Carpathian Basin. When I talked about these issues, I received answers from members of the government, pro-government politicians, that there was no problem here, but that the common labour market was working. Or they're saying it's not that tragic, because there's a greater proportion of people going away. I think that is obviously also a problem, it is also tragic and we are sad to see it, but the most important thing for us is that Hungarian people can manage in their homeland. I would like to ask Mr President, he agrees with me that this is a real national tragedy if tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people are forced to leave the country and thousands of families are torn apart. You would be the first pro-government representative to answer this question clearly in the last two years: yes, we really have to fight so that people, the Hungarian people, do not have to leave this country, and there is a common labour market, but it cannot be a national interest, and a government that sets itself as a national must not say that it is normal that, for economic reasons, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands are leaving. Congressman Nacsa, I had a signal, a question to Congressman Vejkey, I think you misunderstood. I asked him about KDNP, but no one fit... The only thing I asked about KDNP was the last time KDNP started the election on its own, when it made a candidate in the parliamentary elections on its own. That's what I asked you about the fake parties. Congressman Csaba Hende, thank you for confirming that you were wrong. You look back on the report. He claimed that the opposition parties had agreed and communicated this in a common list. That's not true. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] If you've read the MTI communication, you've seen it's a mistake. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-11-18-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. There will be regular speeches. Mr György Szilágyi is next from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-199	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Actually, I'll be brief, because most of all, I just want to respond to a few things. Of course, the many lies that Congressman Nacsa has said in his speech should not be so responsive, because the problem and I do not understand to this day is that someone is sitting here, let us say, and listening to speakers as Members of Parliament and having problems understanding texts, because he is putting sentences in the mouth of his fellow Members that were not. You refer to sentences in the case of my fellow Member, Mr Csaba Gyüre, which he did not say. In your fantasy, or perhaps not in your fantasy, as I have already said, I always remember my fellow Member Vas Imre, who played the same role as you in the previous term, writing down what to say, he stood up and read it and told it. I'm just saying, maybe it's not even your sentences. [[Nacsa Lőrinc shows me a piece of paper.]] which you have thought about, but there are problems with understanding the text. Congressman Nacsa, I have two things to answer to you. [[Nacsa Lárinc: Gyurcsány! Gyurcsány!]] One is that you're left-wing, you say left-wing. You're in KDNP. I told you before to look in the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, please, around, find the people who were former MSZMP members, they were KIS members who were ex-communists. Most of it's in your alliance. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] One of these people. So that you're on the left here, tell them and explain to them, ask them how in the past they were MSZMP members and SGS. Let's not talk about the Soros thing anymore, how many people have learned about Soros's money, and what role Soros played in Fidesz's development, or Viktor Orbán, let's say that he was vice president of the Liberal International, and I could talk about a lot more. So the problem is that you're talking about the left, and the only real right-wing player in this Parliament is Jobbik. [[Deterioration from the pro-government benches.]] which represents right-wing voters as a genuine national party, because you are not a right-wing party, and you should remember that. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Fortunately, 6 percent!]] And then he said there was no cheating here. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] And you're completely clear about the election. Of course, I know you'll forget, you know, you'll forget the chips, the potatoes are very important to you in a single election. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Peter James!]] You forget the money, the money you keep giving to voters illegally, and you forget the threats that you keep using. But that's not for me to say, because I suppose you'll say no, there's no coercion here, and that's not how the NER system works. Yes, you can. That's how the NER system works. I'll read to you what the mayor of Luck said after the last interim election, okay? And then maybe you think maybe there's something there. The mayor of Szerencs says that I knew a lot of people wouldn't like that I recommend Zsófi, but until 22 this power will exist, so he's talking about you, who if a mayor can't cooperate, he can sulk in the corner, and then the cases won't go any further, because this system simply doesn't work any different than he's talking about the NER system. He's also saying, listen, here's the left-hand side, in case it's a bit of a shock to you. I lived in the Kádár system, so did my brother-in-law's curfew. Whoever had good relations with Comrade Bodnár and upward had a way, a way, and that, too. And then he said, "I don't know what you're talking about." It became so that out of the mayor of 42 settlements, I understand, 38 supported him in the same form as I did, because this is how the world works, says Mayor of Szerencs. Now, from here on in, start left-winging and right-winging when they say that about you in an election. Then what I would like to respond to is true, but very briefly, it was Dóra Dúró's speech, who spent most of his speech dealing with Jobbik all along, even though, I do not know, you have read this law, Congresswoman, not Jobbik, but Fidesz. I would like to answer one more sentence about demise. He called the Jobbik an imbecile. I note only quietly that you have been able to make this speech here in Parliament by speaking out in the hands of Jobbik's mandate, without any principle, in violation of your oath and in violation of all your promises. A few words about what you, after all, want to change or not with this bill. There's a lot to talk about. There are parts in there that don't make sense. I do not understand why it is good that the president of the National Election Committee is given almost twice as much money as the members of the committee. We could polemize or talk about it. And then it's connected to the potatoes and everything that you're trying to explain this photography thing, but it's clearly helping Fidesz cheat all the time, because that's what you've been doing. We could talk about that. But what is very worrying about this bill is that the draft submitted shows that the part of the amendment to the 2013 electoral law concerning the annulment of electoral documents has also been changed, and the draft states that, inter alia, the ballot papers, all documents relating to the election, must be destroyed 90 days after the day of the vote. However, what is missing from this is that the draft does not provide for a case where a person initiates an appeal procedure concerning an election document, such as if an election case went to the Constitutional Court, then the repalability is virtually excluded, since the documents will be destroyed on Day 91. [[16.30]] We are concerned about that in this case. In spite of any amendments, you would not accept these proposals, so I would ask that, if you were listening, Mr Secretary of State, I saw that you were paying attention, if you could change that, then I think that this could be appropriate. Then we can talk about how they changed the party list statement. It doesn't matter! Congressman Nacsa, I'm telling you in particular, it doesn't matter. You know what? I want you to make as many changes as you want. This election law has been shaped in their own image for a long time. So far, the battle has taken place according to this distorted electoral system. But you know what? At the moment, you can submit anything, and we will disturb you in 2022. We will defeat you and this dictatorial system, which you have built, which is called NER, which is based on fraud, which is based on threats, and is built on everything, in this system any rules, any rules, we will defeat you! Because not only do we have enough of this, but also the Hungarian people, the Hungarian voters. All good people are fed up with your tyranny, your little kingship, your pompousness, which you are the most indicator of in parliament, the lie tsunami that you are constantly conveying to voters through your own media. Enough of this tyranny! Because, you know, where there is tyranny, there is tyranny, there is tyranny in everything, in sentences, in feelings, in the air, there is tyranny everywhere. Please, Congressman, believe me, whatever you change, whatever you do, we will still defeat you. Thank you for listening.
u2020-11-18-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the MSZP Group is Mr László Varga. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, A lot has been said here in the debate, and many arguments have been made in recent days; well, the positions are very far away. On the opposition side, it was quite right that it was the most important to submit this legislation just a few minutes before midnight that very night, on which day the Parliament, with the support of opposition groups, extended the emergency by 90 days. I think everyone felt that the country was in a situation in the middle of an epidemic where health care is in a very difficult situation, where hundreds of thousands of Hungarian families are getting into a very difficult situation, where the social and economic crisis is getting deeper and deeper. Now, that was the most important thing for you on this night. And it can be said that they actually exercised their rights, and that the Parliament works, and that everything goes on as it should. I understand this, and I also understand that there are deadlines, but the truth is that a type of legislation cannot be adopted without prior consultation with the opposition: this is the scope of legislation on elections. This is a very clear principle, since it sets out the basic ground and rules for the political struggle. One-sided amendment of this type of legislation is obviously acceptable in dictatorships and not in normal, democratic operation, but we are increasingly sensing the shortcomings of this in recent years. So what I would like to say to you is that not only in the event of an emergency, this story that you are doing is unacceptable, but also in terms of general legal practices, political fair play, in terms of basic standards of democratic functioning. So it alone results in the rejection of this proposal by our faction. However, in recent weeks, I have learned a great deal here with my fellow opposition Members. There have been proposals in committees and, ultimately, in the Legislative Committee, which, according to previous parliamentary operations, are certainly over-extensive. I know it's different now, actually, what most people think it's not, it's not. We get it. We understand, but what we are talking about is that proposals are coming up, if, finally, at the TAB, if, before that, in the commission, which regulates a completely different area of life, unopened parts of specific legislation, and I could list them. Next week, Tuesday, there's a Justice Committee, and on Thursday, you're here, aren't you, Mr. President, you're expected to have a Legislative Committee on your own schedule? [[Csaba Hende nods.]] However, it would be good to hear something about their ability to guarantee that amendments fundamentally different from this regulation do not work. Aren't the proposals for amending the electoral rules and, where appropriate, the boundaries of the electoral districts working well? I don't know how this has been discussed between you, and I wouldn't be surprised if that happened next week. I would like to say that it will only strengthen the rejection of the opposition representatives and the rejection of the Hungarian society when such a thing occurs. I believe that it is not only because of us that it is important for the parties to present such legislation together with the opposition to the Parliament, but also because of society, it is important for opposition voters and pro-government voters to believe deeply that there will be democratic and appropriate elections in this country in 2022. Because today, this belief shakes in millions of opposition voters, with reason and right, from what they see in everyday life on the part of the governing parties during campaigns or during interim elections, but here has been a lot of things and your practical practice. This proposal is being introduced in such a way that a significant part of the problems raised previously are not being addressed at all, for example, in relation to the rules of campaigning, and otherwise, what works is, in principle, favourable to you. And I very much appreciate, for example, the incredible speed of taking a picture of the ballot that came out of the rhetoric of the pro-government representatives. I can tell you a number of cases, such as the case of disabled pensioners, when a malpractice violation has not caused you such a problem. So in this legislation, there are technical things and things that are good for Fidesz, amendments. Unfortunately, as a county of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, living in Hungary, I can tell you that I understand why it is important for you to be able to photograph the ballot for private purposes. I understand, and I know what's behind it, and I think that speed does raise questions in this regard, and we know what comes out of it. I think that, with regard to requests for transfer, the deadline is well ahead of the election, instead of the fourth day on the ninth day, obviously this could also be a sort of reorganization and limitation, or at least it could have been debated if there had been a consultation with the opposition before, not a dictatorship on the package of proposals. A lot of people talked about letter voting before me. They ease the validity criteria. It is very clear that in the two parliamentary elections so far, the letter votes favored the governing parties. There are many reasons for this. But it is also very clear that there is also a group of hundreds of thousands of voters among our fellow Hungarians who are forced to live abroad, but have a Hungarian address. These are the people who have been forced to work abroad most of the last ten years because of your economic policy and social policy. I can tell you about a lot of these cases in Borsod County and Miskolc, by the way. There are many such broken families, where it is a member of the family, and where appropriate, one of the family supporters is forced to work abroad. Well, it's not gonna be any easier for them after this, either. [[16.40]] You cannot vote in a letter, even though we have repeatedly proposed this here in Parliament. Whenever such a proposal has been tabled, we have tabled an amendment, and we have also tabled a separate proposal in order to resolve this issue. Do not be between a Hungarian citizen and a Hungarian citizen on this issue! difference! In my view, it would be a very important issue to resolve, and with democratic guarantees in many parts of the western world, there are countless examples to address this issue. But you have not wanted to deal with this issue for ten years, and otherwise, the question is being dealt with quickly so that you can photograph the ballot for private purposes; because that's good for you. And if these hundreds of thousands of people could make it easier for them to decide that you're satisfied with your work, that's not good for you. I am referring to this when I say that this is a very uneven, discriminatory proposal and specifically for your benefit. I suggest you withdraw this. There is nothing to do with this emergency, and if we want to change the electoral rules, I would like to say that we also think that there is a lot to change, but according to NTI, there is a lot to be changed, too, right? Ilona Pálffy also said this before the announcement of her departure; I think we should have a concrete discussion on this, and a clear discussion on this. As a zero point, I say that this is the only thing that, without consulting the opposition, is brought to the Parliament only in dictatorships in the world; because this must be the basis of political struggle, electoral rules, noble competition and democratic minimums. And the opposition voter, as well as the pro-government voter, must trust that this competition is democratic and legal. So I wouldn't go any deeper into the proposal, because all the technical stuff is how many candidates need to be put on the national list and everything, you cooked it up in a witch's kitchen, talked it through, figured it out without consulting anyone outside of your own. This is unacceptable. Cancel the proposal. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-18-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Ms Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-18-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, For two reasons, we knew that it was likely that the amendment of the electoral law would arrive in Parliament. One of the reasons was that Ilona Pálffy gave a very detailed report on both the parliamentary elections in 2018, the elections to the European Parliament in 2019 and the elections to the local government in 2019, which problems arose in all three elections which require legislative amendments. I have to say, for a woman who has had so much criticism of the former President, she has placed extremely rich and forward-looking material not only on the Justice Committee's table, but also on the government's. So I thought that then the governing parties themselves and the government would take into account the leader they appointed and respected, and then, according to his recommendations, the amendment of the electoral law will arrive in the House. Another reason why we thought a lot of people, perhaps all of us, would change the electoral law, is that I do not think that the opposition's parties are doing the right thing to start in the future elections of 22 and coordinate their political activities in front of the public. Sometimes it occurs to me that, before the Olympic finals, the swordsman would invite his opponent to show him the day before, what tricks he would try to defeat him at the next championship final. So it is quite surprising to me that politicians are playing their ideas in front of the biggest opponent on an amazing banner, and they are actually constantly showing what unifying or joint start-up and program they will bring together. A self-respecting man usually hides his goals from his opponent. That's how I do it, anyway. I think that others should too if they wish to be effective; so, given that the opposition's parties show Fidesz-KDNP quite strongly what they are up to, it is a good thing that, with a two-thirds majority, they bring a two-thirds amendment to the House and basically define the conditions of the future election. What I find outrageous, however, is that this amendment to the electoral law does not answer the problems presented by Ilona Pálffy and the National Election Office and the National Election Committee. There was a great deal left out of those proposals; I do not really understand why, because there were in no way reports of errors in spite of the governing parties, but in order to ensure that there were as few disputes as possible. I do not want to go into the details of the proposal, not even because my fellow Members have presented this in very detail in relation to a new legal institution, but I would like to draw attention to one thing, which is a legislative issue, and this is the legislative act 2. Paragraph 3 and paragraph 5. This says that the entry into force of a law should be defined in such a way that there is sufficient time to prepare for the application of this law. Now, half a year after half a four-year term, it is virtually a year and a half before the next election, it is not appropriate for everyone to know that political parties do their political activities in the four-year term; and by mid-term or half-time they already know exactly how they would like to start the election in two years' time, what political programme, what messages, what human resources, what representatives they are, and in fact, what everyone wants to do on the basis of the legislation in force. Compared to this, a year and a half before that, when everyone is over most of the planning, because now the structure of political messages and the address of voters must come, and they will fundamentally change the conditions of departure. I find this particularly harmful. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: It says that a legal norm can be changed if it is absolutely necessary to achieve the regulatory objective; it is absolutely necessary to achieve the regulatory objective. How many years have there been at least 27 single mandate constituencies for the national list? Thirty years? A lot of years. Now, all of a sudden, after all this time, do we have to raise the 27? Of course, they say it's a question of fake parties. But, please, if one day someone is willing to sit in and watch me do it, especially east of the Danube, either in the parliamentary elections or in the municipal elections, on the same party lists, ten-twenty-thirty people of the same name occur, because members of large numbers of families are on a list. Oh, yeah, let's have a look. In the municipal elections of parties or civil society organisations, the members of the so-called fake parties, called civil society organisations and parliamentary elections, have the same name. Do you really think that those who have been able to organize this in the last 20 years will not have 50 people in those families instead of 27 who can be launched? Make me think about it. At least don't say that to those voters, for example those voters, observers, organisers, other political parties, their staff, start-ups, at least not to explain to them that this is the reason, given that they will not have any problem putting 50 people out of the family on the lists instead of 27. The next question I can't answer is the problem of home address announcements. After the previous election, my first proposal, which I submitted, was to block the address announcements so that no more than ten people could be declared for one residence, unless they really proved that the family is much larger and everyone lives there, of course. [[16.50]] At the meeting of the Justice Committee, one of our fellow Members told me when I explained the explanation that there was no such phenomenon in the country, that they had logged into hundreds of units of real estate, and that they were able to vote for it. It's in the report. I won't say my fellow Member's name because I don't want to hurt him. Then, two weeks later, the Attorney General issued a statement on how many criminal proceedings there are in this matter, which are due to several hundred notifications in Eastern Hungary, and those four criminal proceedings are indicted before the court. So if a person's goal is to make the choice clean and really aim, then, for example, such anomalies can be solved extremely simply by legislation, and the case law, believe me, the notaries would be the happiest if they could follow it, and 120 people would not have to be registered in the same crunching property by now. But it is also a fact that in Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County there was a piece of notary, a piece who said that he was resistant to this system, and refused to register the next announcement without going out for an on-site visit, and did not see how fit the property was, and did not look at how many people were already logged in there. A piece of notary was so brave. Well, in that settlement, that kind of voting tourism stopped. So I would just like to ask that if the condition or assumption with which you presented this proposal is real, then it must be at least as important for you that such circumstances cannot be implemented in 2022. The next question is the question of voting online. During a Crown Virus epidemic, you were able to organize a piece of weekend to have digital education in schools from Friday to Monday. They could arrange it. You proved it... [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Thank you very much! The president's ringing the bell.]] The other question is, in what capacity is it that the system could be legally created, then just one more thing to explain why the election cannot be created with an online system. And I'm not talking about the fact that the Ministry of Homeland's monthly application for immunity from public procurement is worth a hundred billion if I count a half-year for IT development. The government spends an enormous amount of money on IT development. Then just one more thing to say is that this vast amount of HUF billion of IT development would not fit into the only IT development stock that would create, say, an online vote. Because then we should not vote in a letter; it should not be that in London Hungarians and Hungarians emigrated from abroad from the same apartment should have a completely different voting opportunity, because while Hungarians working from across the border will go to the post office and give up their vote, the unfortunate other person, if he lives not in London but further away and is away from the consulate, will have to pay a lot of money and spend a lot of time to vote. While those members of the European Union who have been freed from communist power from. 90, such as the Baltic countries, have been able to create the possibility of voting online, then the big question is why Hungary does not know. We know that you don't know because then you couldn't do what you do especially in small settlements, that you're looking nicely at the list of those pro-government voters, who weren't, who weren't, who weren't, who weren't, who was either on the phone, or who was personally on the bus, that it's time for Aunt Juli to vote. Besides, I think that my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, will be asking for this, and what I am accusing people of is the next thing that I have experienced this situation myself. 2019, municipal election day. Before 5:00 p.m., my mother-in-law couldn't vote, considering it was a family thing all day. I got to him at 4:45 and took him to vote. We're going back to her house, where my husband is, who got there later, and tell Mama she called you that she hadn't voted yet. That's what Mama says, so how do you know I haven't voted yet? They think they're gonna take a nice picture of the existing attendance sheet, look at some people in their own records who weren't there. [[Gábor Bányai intervenes.]] And they're gonna start making phone calls. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: KDNP doesn't do that.]] So don't tell me that's not true, because I've lived it myself. What I can't stand is someone lying to me about what I've been living, you want to know? [[Gábor Bányai: That's a lie! Dr. Pál Völner: Maybe it was the MSZP!]] So the reason they won't allow an online vote is because it wouldn't be possible to monitor people's willingness to vote; wouldn't it be possible to draw up the Cubatov lists and compare them to the people who have already appeared? That's the biggest problem. And then let's talk a little more about the fake couple question. All sides are using this, but I think about this question from the aspect of the fact that only the fake party who once formed during the cycle has no political message, has no active political activity, and only starts in the election, suddenly unknown people appear on their list, whether they are individual candidates or national, or the party fake whose whole activity is nothing but to ensure the existential lives of certain groups of people, without any particular political message. Because to be honest with you, fellow Members, to me, it is also a fake party where the emblematic figures of that party have been living for decades from the fact that they are active in the political party, are running for elections, and, by the way, there are no particular political messages between the two elections other than criticising the other political powers, perhaps sometimes speaking to create a conflict, whether it disturbs or disturbs voters. So I just want to ask you to handle this fake party issue more gently, because if we don't do anything else, we're just going to see who those people who have been living on politics for decades without more serious performance, and they've been organizing their political activities with taxpayers' money, and they don't add a forint out of their own pocket, so let's say what kind of parties they are. So let's think about this for once. And I think, by the way, that the members of society have been happy to think about these lately, and they are quite against the conduct of the political class. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-18-204	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Barna Pál Zsigmond, from the Fidesz Group, is next to speak again.
u2020-11-18-205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, I would respond to opposition charges that facilitate the participation of Hungarians across the border in the vote, while the government makes the voting rights of Hungarians working abroad difficult. Whether Congressman Cook or Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm as her legally executed colleague, I think that they have either ignored public-law constitutional-law lectures during their university years. [[Dr. László Kács: Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] , or they mislead the Hungarian public, because the Hungarian legislation and the decisions and decisions of the Constitutional Court clearly govern the issue. And the opposition has been saying untrue things for years. Let's get on with it. Hungarian citizenship is the determining factor for the existence of suffrage, but voters can exercise this right in a variety of ways. Hungarian citizens entitled to vote, who are resident in Hungary, will vote personally in the electoral district of their place of residence. If, by the way, they are abroad on the day of the vote, the law guarantees them the possibility of voting at foreign representations. These voters also vote for a party list and choose from candidates in the constituency of their place of residence. Today, by 50 more foreign representations can be voted on than in 2010. Thus, personal voting in Hungarian legislation is the general rule, compared to which voting in a letter is an auxiliary rule. However, in the case of a foreign address, the concept of the electoral district cannot be interpreted, so citizens living abroad can cast their votes by letter, and since they cannot be interpreted by the individual candidate of the place of residence, they can vote only on a list. Another derogation is that they can only participate in elections if they ask for their registration in the electoral register, i.e. register. Thus, the basis for the different rules is solely the existence or lack of a domestic address. Irrelevant, therefore, I stress, it is irrelevant that the address of a Hungarian citizen in London referred to this either in Kézdivásárhely or in Australia, as all citizens who do not have a Hungarian address are subject to the same rules. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] [[17.00]] And if a voter is living abroad, lawyers understand this category and has difficulty voting in person, then he has the opportunity to announce his residence abroad or apply to be included in the electoral register, on the basis of which he can vote in a letter. The person who has his permanent residence abroad is therefore obliged to terminate his permanent residence in Hungary, since he cannot have two permanent residences at the same time. In the absence of a notification, the Hungarian State cannot verify who are citizens who are living abroad, for whom personal voting in Hungary or in foreign representations may be difficult due to the lack of permanent residence. However, the existence of domestic residence is a condition for many social, family support, education and health benefits. It is therefore the individual responsibility of every citizen to make the most appropriate decision on this matter, even with regard to elections, in line with his or her own living conditions. Overall, it is also untrue that the legislation in force makes it disproportionately easier for citizens with foreign addresses to exercise voting rights, as they have just an additional obligation to register in the register. Moreover, because of their different living conditions, citizens with a domestic address can vote for individual candidates, as I said, while those with a foreign address are only party lists. That's it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-18-206	Thank you very much, Congressman. There are two-minute speeches coming up. I am speaking to Mr László Szakács of the MSZP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-18-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for the lecture. [[Dr. Zsigmond Barna Pál: You're welcome, anytime.]] We really didn't deserve your personal tone, and I think you don't belong in this house, soul on it, you do it, do what you want. My fellow Member Nacsa said that I admitted that there were fake parties in 2006, and I do not know when he heard that. I said that there were several parties in 2006 after one got into Parliament, but in 2014 there was a 104 centimeters long ballot paper in my constituency, where there were plenty of parties who were obviously funded by you, and then they didn't go after your money. But more importantly, poor Fidesz has nowhere to go because of the photos, because they went to the wall. You said you went up to the wall, and there's nothing left to do, didn't you? And you can't solve anything with the two thirds of the constitutionalist, I don't know what the buffalo-strong Fidesz is. Imagine that they did, let's say, in the case of foreign exchange lenders, when there was also a mandatory judgment, which the Hungarian courts should all observe in pieces, that you have created all sorts of consultative bodies, which had no powers whatsoever. Then this consultative body was banned, and the law was passed that the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg should not be applied, but it should not be applied in Hungary because at that time it was against your interests and for the interests of the Hungarian people, because then the Hungarians could have been helped, and then you were on the side of the banking world and found a solution. Now they're so unwitting. Well, I'm sorry about all of you, but they're still trying to figure it out. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2020-11-18-208	Good evening. We'll get back to work. I see you're on the move, trying to pick up the speed. Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, KDNP, two minutes!
u2020-11-18-209	Thank you very much. Mr President, I would respond quickly to Congressman György Szilágyi; not to his impertinent remarks concerning me, but to his insulting remarks. You've been talking about potatoes, and in the last few weeks, the only thing we've seen with potatoes was Peter James, but it's none of their business. I am pleased that Congressman quoted the mayor of Szerencs, because I would like to point out to my fellow Members that there will be an election in 2022 when people decide what direction they are headed for, and if there is a change, it does not matter what relationship they have with. Your vice president, Anita Potocsány Kőrösi, threatened a mayor in Somogy to be very careful of who he's friends with, because if there's a change of direction here, he's gonna have a bad thing to do. Congressman Szilágyi also said that all good people are fed up with Fidesz-KDNP's policy, so I ask myself to insult the voters of Fidesz-KDNP at the levels of Bangóné, so that they would not be good people, to insult a camp much more populous than the voters of Jobbik here in the Hungarian Parliament. I would like to respond to the e-vote, the electronic vote, to Congresswoman Varga-Damm in a few seconds. I recommend to the congresswoman that you read the studies on this, studies by security technicians and cyber experts. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] from all over the world. I understand that the expertise is just like that... I heard Uncle Churka Pista say. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It can be arranged!]] Look at the regional German examples, where the full result had to be destroyed because they were such abuse! Look at the abuse that such a system can cause. See how security, anonymity issues are written by renowned security, security and cyber experts, and then come back with this proposal. I think it is worth heeding the advice of experts on how vulnerable and dangerous such a system can be. I don't think we're there yet, maybe the time will come, I hope; when the world grows that far. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-18-210	Congressman Banya, Fidesz, in two minutes.
u2020-11-18-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to speak to Andrea Varga-Damm. The online vote, as you can see, was shown in Michigan by fellow Americans that they couldn't do it normally. Remember, thousands of votes were lost by the regent president, because this software probably rewritten it. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Yeah, maybe... I'm telling you, the software was wrong, and one of the most important technologies in the world, and the richest country in the world, could ruin that, and I don't trust online technology. What's more, I know this phone can be tapped, you see what they're doing through the camera, I don't trust the online vote, but if one of you ever guarantees that it can be done, it's fine. However, you claimed that in the polling districts, both in nearly ten thousand, Hungary might be able to have ours, possibly yours, or the other left-wing parties, or even the civil servants to photograph the polling district list. I ask for it on their behalf, and I ask them, and you apologize to them, because you say the polling commissioners are cheating. Any party, civil servant, or civil servant who works for you, instead of me, protecting us, you claim to photograph and send out the information. Do you know how many pages of such a polling list is? It's got 800 and 1,500 people's names on it. Well, physically, it's impossible to arrange that Gábor Bányai and his wife are missing, and they call to photograph that card clearly and start sending it away. It's not lifelike. It may be possible to do it in a village of one person or two, but it can't be done on a systemic basis. Apologize to them, you accused the civil servants of Hungary, who may not be with us, may not be with you, may not be with anyone! You mustn't say that, please withdraw. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-18-212	We will now return to the speech of the Member asking for a normal word, which was number one. Congressman László Varga asked for the floor, MSZP, here.
u2020-11-18-213	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Well, the debate is going on, and the truth is that there is always a new element, I have listened to Gábor Bányai's speech here with genuine admiration. I hope that what you have said in your speech is naive, but there is a great deal of abuse, and such phenomena are also heard. Obviously, it cannot be fully generalized, because a lot of people do this work with honor and honour, but you also hear that there are political forces, there are voters who do abuse their situation. I wouldn't be able to tell you a case like this. My fellow Member, Mr Barna Pál, said how this regulation is now and that it is okay. Well, I understand that it's okay for you and that it's appropriate for you, and you think that this is resolved. I have made it very clear that anywhere in the world where there are democratic conditions and fair play at least in the political competition, there is a consultation between the political parties on the basic rules governing elections. One of the problems is that there is an emergency, and then your dictatorship happens, and the other is that one-sided referral to such a package of legislation would normally not be acceptable. [[17.10]] I have suggested that I believe that your regulation is in no way appropriate to the political fair play. I understand that you think it's in line with the Fundamental Law and that it's constitutional, but I don't think that's the question here. The question is that he can be a consensus, or that the political fair play says it works. You may have heard of my fellow Member from Hungary, at least a few who live in a given settlement, but for various reasons he works in another settlement. There are very, very many of our compatriots who live in a settlement in Hungary, their families are there, and otherwise they are forced to work in a foreign settlement. Sometimes this foreign settlement is closer to Hungary, sometimes a little further away, which does not allow them to go home every day. This forced state can be continued in a wide variety of ways, along with a wide variety of lifestyles. Some people are out for a month and a half, they come home for a week or a long weekend, and sometimes they can come home when their employer obviously gives them the opportunity to do so. This is the case as often as possible, by the way, unfortunately, they have little control over when they come home. Tens of thousands of these people in their lives, when there are elections, they can't come home, they can't live with their voting rights in the electoral district of their address. What's going on? He was quite right to say this, according to today's regulations, Zsigmond Barna Pál, so they can go to foreign representations and vote there. There are mass scenes here. Many times Hungary's foreign representation is in a very distant city compared to where they work. We have been suggesting for years that we consider them to be as important Hungarian citizens as our fellow citizens who have no address in Hungary. So it would be important to make it easier for them to live with their democratic rights, because where they live, where they know their families, where they go home, if they don't work, where they go home every night, if they don't have to work away, they can't necessarily vote that weekend. A number of Western European states have come up with appropriate constitutional rules, consistent with the rules of the specific state, in accordance with the basic laws. Our proposal is to come up with such rules here, make it easy for tens of thousands of Hungarians and hundreds of thousands of Hungarians who have fled abroad for economic and other social reasons, and make it easier for them to exercise their voting rights. I think I've just tried to light this up in a number of ways. I understand that Mr President has referred to the fact that this is true today and that this is constitutional. What I am saying is that other constitutional regulations can be found, which are in line with Hungarian legislation, and it is also easier for this social group. I see Mr. Secretary of State and they say that if you are abroad so much, you should cancel the address in Hungary. [[Dr. Pál Völner: They didn't do it before 2010.]] Is that what you're trying to tell these people? That it's not enough that they have to spend so much time abroad, away from their families, even cancel their address in Hungary? I don't know what kind of solution they have for this problem. Please accept that this is the opposition's position, and in fact they are already trying to make it easier for these social groups to vote. I see that they do not intend to, but then let the opposition have the opportunity to ask that if such a package is brought in, this issue is not dealt with properly. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-18-214	Dear Parliament, I'll ask if anyone else would like to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] Not only do I not see a candidate, I don't see a candidate. As no one has made any further comments, the general debate is closed. I'll ask Secretary Völner if he'd like to reflect, obviously. You have the floor, please.
u2020-11-18-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. After such a lively debate, I think it is appropriate to summarize what we have heard. Csaba Gyüre's speech at the beginning was a fresh spot because it turned out that Jobbik is a regional party, because he is represented by it, and that in the future this kind of regulation will rule out it; it is really something to smile about. So practically the parties can get into Parliament in the same way. Those who got in in 2018 and in 2018 and 14 and 10, I think they could jump the same threshold, and they couldn't, and they couldn't get in the same way, and they couldn't get in now. The pandemic has appeared among others as to why it is in front of this House now. It is here in front of this House because Parliament is now in session, and we have clarified this several times, either in pre- Agenda debates or in other series of debates on the subject. By entrusting the government with 90 days of regulation in its own hands, operating and rapid, Parliament has practically achieved that, after not dealing with this issue in an operational way, it does not have to deal with it, but at the same time it would not be a good position that, after that, as someone who did well, everyone would go home to their own home and look at how the majority of the country is fighting, whether in health care or in law enforcement agencies or in social homes, whose work I am very pleased to see more fellow Members constantly commend it. We can only join this circle from here. It's also good that we're here because we can do this in public. Several opposed the system of letter voting. Thank you for having my fellow Member here answer these matters in part for me. But I would also say to László Varga that before 2010, if this question had been so pressing, when we remember very well that Ferenc Gyurcsány told those who were under such pressure, especially during the economic crisis, that they had to go abroad, that they could go away. This sentence is absorbed into the consciousness of the Hungarian people. So it's a little hypocritical to say after that that we drove these people away. The other part is that it is indeed possible to vote, and the Constitutional Court's decision clearly said that homogeneous voting groups should have the same rules. And what is very strange is that, let's say, Hungarian citizens residing in Hungary cannot vote in a letter, while Hungarian citizens residing abroad, who have a home, can vote in a letter. Or let us think that if we were to say that domestic voters can vote in a letter, we could indeed create such an American situation, which would upset the moods even today. The world's leading power cannot handle the issue of how postal votes are reported, when they arrive, where they embezzle, where they are placed. If you want to cause such chaos, then say it openly. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] So it's obvious that this would probably be in your best interest. Several people also touched on the question of photographing the ballot paper. Indeed, since the Court of Human Rights has stated in Strasbourg that this cannot be sanctioned, it cannot be prohibited, there is only one way to take this out of the law. By the way, there has also been a criticism of the better side, perhaps if not, then I apologize for taking into account when we do not accept the decision of the Strasbourg court. Just in the case referred to, which was the case of. Ahmed and Ilias, I also remember that the Grand Chamber actually gave us the truth when it said that staying in the transit zone does not mean being detained. Therefore, ab ovo cannot be stated that a court decision in Strasbourg cannot be taken into account and should not be observed, as we always do. My fellow Member Vejkey said that the opposition can set up two lists. Twenty can, so technically, they're not limited. And in which direction they're heading, they're talking about a list, and then they think it's a miracle weapon, and it's perfect for that, and it can't mean any restrictions. Although I note that in 2019 there was a county, at least one county from which I was a representative, Komárom-Esztergom County, where the opposition, both Jobbik and MSZP, DK, Momentum, Dialogue, everyone came together, and there was two lists, there was a Fidesz-KDNP, and there was one. And the ratio is, the government list got more than 57 percent, and the other list got under 43 percent. So we are actually ahead of such a challenge. It is a democratic right for everyone to see in what form, how they fight. I don't think we're restricting this kind of modification. And the basic problem that we talked about is how the fake parties came together: 13 of the 16 fake-party units in 2018 couldn't jump this threshold, 3 could still do it. So it is not entirely possible to rule out this kind of phenomenon, but I think it is great for prevention, so that they cannot practically jump this kind of threshold. [[17.20]] And we can't sit back on a case like this, because I could tell you that if I wanted to waste the time of the others, everyone from the left-wing parties, from Csaba Molnár, through Bernadette Szél, challenged the presence of the fake parties in the elections. Although, I tell you, I would tell the left-wingers to discuss this with János Zuschlag as a young socialist, so don't consider it a pro-government phenomenon. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] 'Cause, let's just say, these nameable characters are more likely to be discovered on their side. The votes across the border. Gergely Arató also brought this hatred of DK into the debate, which was manifested against Hungarians across the border. They want to make it look like the fate of the Hungarian parliamentary elections depends on it. As I recall, there was one mandate in 18 and 14 beyond the border. Well, that you don't play well there, and you don't have any respect, can be reflected up to the time of the referendum on dual citizenship, so there is a long shadow of great sin. Here's your penance, and then that problem won't come up. But this is not the decisive element of the Hungarian electoral system, so anyone who claims that this is why the governing parties can win is not mathematically true. It has also been said that the proposals of the National Election Office do not go back to this proposal. I'm just saying, let's look at those transfers or the expansion of the electoral districts and the creation of subcommittees, all of which are in the same circle as the proposals made by the Pálffy Ilona. In the referendum decision, it is also that the length of the referendum decision increases from 30 to 60 days, after several cases are considered at the same time, rather than serving the quality of the decision, and it will not prevent the launch of any kind of referendum initiative or the authorisation of it. That in 2010,... you mentioned election fraud here, and I was just saying, on the left side and on the DKs. I remember one thing: when Ferenc Gyurcsány announced after the 2006 elections that the voters were actually deceived [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] 'Cause they're basically giving us false data, and they lied in the morning, and at night and at night, we're always gonna have to miss the noon date. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] If I were to quote him precisely, because he didn't say so. It has also been said that no sanctions have been imposed on the fake parties. I was just looking at the Internet as an interesting fact, and there's a man who's been suspended from prison, who's been fined. Some at the PKKB were fined, brought in a case in Csepel, in Zalaegerszeg, where a woman was virtually sentenced to detention. So there are running cases, there are closed cases, so the personal consequences are there. The New Dimension Party has been named, for example, as one with which data can be found. But if I'd had more time, obviously I would have been able to find you more in this area. Regarding Gergely Gulyás, it was said that in 2019 he made a statement that there was no plan to amend the electoral law or the electoral law. If we remember correctly, Ilona Pálffy made his proposals in August 2020, so I believe that we can create a synchronization of the three times, the current and the two I mentioned, and that the statement that it really stood that way at that time cannot be questioned, but then the head of the National Election Office made his proposals, which did not remain unheard of. Szabó Timea's statements, when he said such things as the oligarchs of villages and such, I can't even interpret them. Technically, I'd love to see it go so well in the country that we'd be full of oligarchs in the villages and welcome so many rich people in our ranks. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] It may seem this way from Budapest, unfortunately the rural situation is more saddening, but this shows how the dialogue's support progresses, so practically its relationship to reality, probably the result. Varga Simeon's voice as a minority spokesperson was indeed a very fresh spot. He can afford the luxury of actually talking about what is standing before this House, and I am very pleased that we have managed to put down a proposal on ethnic matters that is not offensive to them. I don't want to get into everything, I'm sorry. I think we can determine... Yes, it is another thing of such significance that Congressman György Szilágyi might be able to study Hungarian legislation more attentively. After 90 days, the ballots were destroyed before. He was worried about the long-term legal procedures. Even the Constitutional Court has 3+3 days to deal with these cases, so to take them in and then decide in three days. The 90-day deadline will cover everything. I hope that I have managed to answer the remaining questions that have not been clarified during the debate. Thank you for your attention and for your support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-216	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the amendment proposals can be submitted by 16:00 on Thursday. Dear Parliament, The ninth amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law follows a general debate until closure. Government referral T/13647. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the proposal will be discussed as a minority item by the Parliament. The rapporteur for the item is Ms Judit Varga, Minister for Justice. I'll give him the floor. Will you tell me from there, Madam Secretary, or will you come up? [[Dr. Judit Varga points to the platform.]] Let's get you up there.
u2020-11-18-217	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government's proposal to amend the basic law is intended to ensure the safety of our country, our families and our children. The Fundamental Law is the basis of Hungary's legal order, embodying its historical, social and political traditions, and also an alliance between the past, the present and the future. The Fundamental Law of Hungary is a living framework that protects the identity of Hungarians, expresses their value system, embodies their will, and defines the most fundamental forms of their existence under public law. It defines, among other things, the family as the most important framework for our coexistence, our successors, for whom we bear responsibility, and our national culture as a rich contribution to the diversity of European unity. However, these values are at risk these days. Some believe that a progressive set of thought, which makes the two non-creations relative, is a growing concern. The natural laws on the forms and content of human communities, the relativisation, dilution, and continued threat to the preservation of the concepts that harmonise them and ensure the survival of communities raise doubts as to the protection of the interests, rights and well-being of future generations. The constitutionalist therefore needs to clarify the guarantees that guarantee the rights of children and future generations. Such is the mother's creation as a woman, a father's creation as a man; such is the right to an identity corresponding to the child's birth sex; and such a guarantee is the state's endeavour to ensure that the education of values based on the constitutional identity and Christian culture of Hungary is provided. These aspects of the most important interests of children and future generations provide a stable basis for our country to remain a strong community of security in the future. In addition, according to the proposal, the constitutionalist, by supplementing Article 38 of the Fundamental Law, believes in the separation of public-law and private-law relations for the sake of stability of long-term social processes and legal certainty. The new basic legislation strengthens the institutional independence of public-service trust foundations from the current government by linking its most fundamental rules to a fundamental law. With fundamental law protection, the constitutionalist recognises the outstanding social value-building role of public-service trust foundations, in particular in the field of higher education and talent management. The aim of the regulation is to protect these organisations, universities and other institutions. [[17 .30]] The Fundamental Law has a separate part of public money compared to the previous constitution, but the constitutionalist has not yet defined the concept of public money, and the Government's proposal would replace this in order to guarantee transparency and legal certainty. Finally, as a result of the 9th amendment of the Fundamental Law, the system of special legal order cases is changed to three situations of war, emergency and emergency, instead of the previous six. This serves to establish an efficient system based on the experience of crisis management in recent years, with rules on organisations involved in armed security and security activities, which are more adapted to the changing security environment. In addition to modernisation and system renewal, the amendment also includes additional guarantees at a number of points in the organisational, operational and regulatory framework for the provision of security and security functions. Dear House, In accordance with Article L (1) of the Fundamental Law, the proposal clearly highlights the values of the legal system that ensure the full potential of the growing and future generations to live in dignity as far as possible. The priority fundamental law protection of future generations has already been published, and in addition to others, Article P serves this purpose when it states, in relation to natural resources and cultural values, that it is the duty of the State and everyone to protect, maintain and preserve it for future generations. Protecting future generations requires that we strive to create the most appropriate environment for them in all respects. In view of this, it is necessary to establish, in the context of family life and the upbringing of children, a statement based on the natural nature of birth that the mother is a woman and the father is a man; because we cannot become biologists. Today, a psychic article was published in the press, which very vividly points out that the individual's development process may have different directions from the general or the majority. Conflict-free attitudes and tolerance in developed societies, including in our country, are fundamental expectations. At the same time, external intervention in the personality development process of children cannot be accepted by denying biological law and social and cultural traditions. The aim is therefore not to undermine the rights of certain social groups. On the contrary, our aim is to promote the protection of the most vulnerable age groups. The Fundamental Law has expressly established the right to protection and care necessary for adequate physical, mental and moral development as children's rights. Under this provision of the Fundamental Law, the State has an obligation to establish a legal environment and a system of institutions that guarantees the preservation and preservation of the child's identity from birth. In order to guarantee this right for children, it is also necessary to ensure that the child's right to an identity corresponding to the child's birth sex is guaranteed. Birth is not faith, it is not ideology, it is not a matter of self-convincion, it is a biological gift that cannot be changed: people are born to a man or a woman. If we deny that, we deny biology. Human dignity also includes the right of every child to an identity appropriate to his or her birth sex, which includes protection against mental or biological interference against his or her physical and mental integrity. In line with the above, the proposal provides children with an education based on the constitutional identity and Christian roots of Hungary, creating a clear basis for all members of the growing generation to learn, preserve and inherit the Hungarian identity, sovereignty and the role of the Christian culture. This basic principle does not in any way affect the exercise of the right to freedom of conscience and religion, which includes freedom of choice or change of religion or other beliefs. I would like everyone to understand that the Government of Hungary does not wish to attack or undermine any social group's existing rights in the face of press voices. In fact, I would like to say that all social groups are important to Hungary, since all Hungarians are valuable, a valuable part of the whole which is called the Hungarian nation. According to our basic law, human dignity is inviolable, and everyone must respect that. But I want everyone to understand that the rights of our children should not be undermined by the pressure of certain interest groups or ideological trends. Dear House, I should also mention the provisions of the proposal concerning public-service trust foundations. Pursuant to Article 7 of the proposal, the Parliament would express the outstanding social value-creating role of the public-interest trust fund under Article 38 (6) of the basic law. Thus, the constitutional assembly, with the protection of fundamental law, records the institutional independence of this private-law actor from any government on the one hand. On the other hand, recognising the importance of its public service mission for Hungary and the future generation by the available public law instruments, it provides legal certainty and long-term legal stability, for example, for public-interest trust foundations, which are the cornerstones of renewable higher education and talent management. However, that protection shall be granted to the trust fund only if, according to its statutes, it has, on the one hand, the quality of a trust in the public interest and, on the other hand, because of the importance of the public service mission it carries out, it is classified as a public interest trust having a public service mission. The content of the Fundamental Law Protection covers the creation and termination of this legal entity and amendments to its internal organisational rules in the field of operation. The rules governing the winding-up of public-interest trust foundations are essential. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In addition, Article 8 of the proposal sets out the concept of public money which has so far been missing from the Fundamental Law. It does so in order to ensure that the provisions of the Fundamental Law guaranteeing transparency are absolutely effective. The proposal clearly, clearly and comprehensively defines the concept of public money, which is a guarantee of transparent use. The definition covers all constitutional, state and municipal bodies, state and municipal institutions. Finally, the proposal would make a comprehensive amendment to the rules of the Fundamental Law on a special legal order. Its systemic objective is to build on the experience of the past months to make the special legal order regulation more transparent, to align itself with the rules of normal legal order and crisis management with the principle of gradualness and thus to focus on the most serious challenges and threats. This is done in a modern way, adapted to the changing safety environment and introducing additional guarantees compared to previous regulations. One of the main directions of the proposal is to make the current government the recipient of the special rule of law in all cases, taking into account a number of foreign examples. This is because, following the publication of the special legal order, a swift, effective and politically and legally responsible decision can be taken. The planned Article 48 of the Fundamental Law, with the opening of the special legal order chapter, clearly defines the special legal order cases; as I said before, the state of war, the state of emergency and the emergency. The planned Article 49 establishes the institution of a state of war replacing the state of emergency. The amendment combines the elements of the previous regulation with certain rules of the preventive protection situation and the requirements of the changing safety environment. As a result, the state of war can be treated as a special case of law of the military type, including the treatment of non-armed threats which, due to their severity and nature, are considered to be similar in weight to an armed attack in terms of Hungary's sovereignty. On the one hand, the changing cases respond to non-armed interventions such as threats from cyberspace or other new types of threats. On the other hand, the new legislation shifts compliance with the specific collective protection obligation from the preventive protection situation, which means that federal cooperation not covered by this area is, in principle, envisaged in the context of normal legal crisis management and, on the other hand, that it explicitly requires the declaration of the state of war only in respect of the collective protection obligation. As a new regulation, the Fundamental Law allows the Government to exercise and decide on all relevant military movements, as in the previous mandate of the Defence Council during the state of war. This solution therefore maintains the strict conditions of the Parliament's decision-making autonomy. [[17.40]] The planned Article 50 of the Fundamental Law sets out a new rule for the state of emergency. This is a significant change in the fact that, in addition to the overthrow of the constitutional order, acts aimed at subversifying it will be included in the regulation. As regards acts of mass threat to life and property security, not only the former armed and armed, but also further illegal acts enable the facts to be called upon. These changes are primarily justified by changes in critical infrastructure and information technology. The regulation maintains the 30-day guarantee scheme. The proposed Article 51 contains the control of the emergency situation. The rules for declaring an emergency are the same as those in force in the basic legal text, with the exception that the text of the standard applies to the serious event involving the safety of life and property as a cause for announcement, thus allowing the publication of the emergency to be made in the currently unforeseen but justified cases. However, it is an important innovation that the Parliament has so far authorised the extension of the scope of the Government's emergency regulation, whereas under the new regulations, the Parliament, like the state of war and the state of emergency, may already authorise the extension of the emergency that can be declared for a maximum of thirty days. Unlike the state of war and the state of emergency, this decision of the Parliament requires the vote of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. As a result of the change, the Parliament has jurisdiction over the maintenance of the special legal order, since, in the absence of a mandate, the special legal order will cease by virtue of the power of the Fundamental Law. One of the main directions of Article 53 of the Fundamental Law is that the legislation makes the government the recipient of the special legal order in all cases, taking into account a number of foreign examples. It remains possible to review and repeal the special regulations introduced by the Government in Parliament. The planned Article 54 contains specific rules for the period from the government's initiative to the decision to declare a state of war or state of emergency. It is of guarantee importance that the scope of the Government's regulations in this period lasts until the decision to declare the special legal order, but not more than 60 days after the government's initiative to publish it. Finally, it is important to point out that the new provisions on the special legal order would only enter into force on 1 July 2023 under the proposal. Dear Parliament, Thank you for your attention, and please support the amendment of the Fundamental Law. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of governing parties and ethnic advocates.]]
u2020-11-18-218	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mainnote speakers will be held. First, the lead speaker of the Fidesz Group, Mrs Mónika Dunai, gives her opinion on the pulpit. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-219	Mr President, Your Honour, Secretary of State. Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Congressmen, Day after day, we find that deliberate, premeditated attacks have been launched around the world against many natural evidences, both before and today. These attacks, which can often be considered as provocation, are being launched more and more frequently by narrow but global groups. There has been an attack on the values that feed and move the natural order of the world. There's been an attack on everything that's built on belonging together. An attack on Christian culture and Christian values was launched, and then an attack was launched on the nations that claim these values. And they don't stop here: because the nation is built on families, they are now being targeted. The family is based on the woman and the man. Now they are attacking this foundation, relativizing, atomicizing, tearing the family apart into very small components, and even going further, their most recent targets are our children. An organized attack was launched against the values that Fidesz-KDNP and the Hungarians, and even the majority of the world, claim to own and treat as an indestructible basis. It is our job, honourable Members and Members, to protect these foundations every minute, every possible place and with all our strength. This is what we expect of ourselves, and that is what the Hungarian people expect of us. Dear Members, Ladies and Congressmen, We, the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, must also respond to these global challenges, which is why the House has received the ninth amendment of Hungary's Fundamental Law. We in the Fidesz-KDNP faction association believe that the Fundamental Law is the basis of Hungary's legal order, an alliance between the past, the present and the future. We, the Members of Parliament, are all responsible not only for the generations living today, but also for the children of the future. In this spirit, we must today discuss the issues which are included in the proposal and which are of paramount constitutional importance with responsibility. Dear Members, Ladies and Congressmen, We call you to a responsible debate today. The Fundamental Law of Hungary is a living framework that expresses the will of the nation, that is, the form in which we want to live. The constitutional will expressed in the National Creed provides a common set of values for the basic law standards, in which spirit it can be understood and interpreted, in addition to the legislation on children who have already been born, in addition to the rule of law that protects the interests of future generations. Following the adoption of the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law, Article 50 (1) of the Fundamental Law will read as follows:. Hungary protects the institution of marriage as a voluntary community between a man and a woman, as well as the family as the foundation for the survival of the nation. Family relationships are based on marriage and parent-child relationships. The mother is a woman, the father is a man. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] After the adoption of the 9th amendment to the Fundamental Law, paragraph 3 of the Act will read as follows: "Hungary protects the institution of marriage as a voluntary community between a man and a woman, as well as the family as the foundation for the survival of the nation. Family relationships are based on marriage and parent-child relationships. The mother is a woman, the father is a man. (Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Whoa!) Ladies and gentlemen, In the Fundamental Law, we have paid particular attention to the proper physical and mental education and development of children. The Family Protection Amendment to the Fundamental Law is intended to guarantee the undisturbed development of the child's birth sex. I would like to emphasise that all this is done to protect children and to protect children. This amendment of our basic law does not undermine the personal freedom and identity of adults, nor does it contain any restrictions on the same sex. We approach the issue only from the point of view of child rights. Unfortunately, we find that some people often forget that not only adults but also children have rights. Anyone who might attack this amendment, I think, is not a baseless assumption that does not fully recognise children's rights. It does not recognise children's rights to healthy physical and spiritual development, nor does it recognise that, as a result of human dignity, children have the right to the identity of their birth sex. It means that the mother and father are men, ladies and gentlemen of Congress, not Fidesz. [[17.50]] I'm guessing that's what happened in your family, in your parents' case, or you wouldn't be sitting here right now. [[Defiance.]] Dear Members, Ladies and Congressmen, The Fidesz Group supports the present, ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law, because it is fundamentally child-centred. We support the proposal because it considers the natural evidence of childbearing to be followed, and not such wandering and changing ideologies. We support the proposal because it identifies the values of the legal system that ensure respect for the growing and future generations the opportunity to live life in the greatest possible dignity, and to this end it records, in the context of family life and the upbringing of children, the concept based on the non-natural, unchangeable gift of birth, according to which the mother is a woman and the father is a man. We support the amendment tabled because, by clarifying the interpretation so far, the constitutionalist shows in the following turn that it concerns one man and one woman. Quote: Hungary protects the institution of marriage as between a man and a woman. We support the amendment of the basic law tabled, because the proposal does not introduce any new rules for the same sex, no restrictions appear in it, it only clarifies the concept of marriage, and it sets out the basic principles of nature. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of Congress, We also support the proposal because it provides children with an education based on values based on Hungary's constitutional identity and Christian culture, creating clear foundations for all the growing generations to learn and preserve Hungary's Hungarian identity, sovereignty, and the role of Christianity as a national preserver. It should be stressed that the latter elements are not new in the Fundamental Law, they have been highlighted in Article R. The values based on the Christian culture of Hungary are not a commitment to a religion, but a historical-cultural tradition that has evolved in Hungary for over a thousand years. Dear House, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of Congress, In addition to what has been said, the amendment to the basic law that we are discussing here contains a number of novums. A new paragraph (6) is added to Article 38 of the Fundamental Law, resulting in the constitutionalist exercising faith in the separation of public-law and private-law relations for the sake of the stability of long-term social processes and legal certainty. It would recognise the prominent role of public-service trust foundations and their independence from the current government by providing for a fundamental law on their establishment, operation, termination and the provision of public-service tasks in the future. The aim of this regulation is to ensure that these foundations' value-building activities in the field of higher education and talent care, i.e. the functioning of these universities and other institutions, are protected in a strong and stable way. Dear Members, Ladies and Congressmen, The Fundamental Law, as opposed to the old constitution, even has the socialist constitution, a separate part of public money, which has already been the case. So far, the practice of bodies carrying out constitutional and other legal functions has had different interpretations of what we really have to understand and exactly under the heading of public money. For this reason, Article 39's new paragraph 3 clearly, clearly and comprehensively defines the concept of public money when it requires that I quote: public money is the revenue, expenditure and claim of the State. The clear definition of the concept is also justified because the Fundamental Law itself states that public money data is public interest data. The establishment of these rules will therefore enable the conclusion of public debate on public funds and full guarantee of the rules of the Fundamental Law that ensure transparency. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen of Congress, We are currently experiencing a trial period due to the challenges posed by the coronal virus epidemic. Our everyday life takes place in a different way, so the experience of life justifies talking about amendments to the provisions of the Fundamental Law concerning a special legal order, and to discuss them, and they can serve the safety and interests of Hungarians more effectively in the Constitution, that is, in the Fundamental Law. The amendments will only enter into force on 1 July 2023 and therefore, due to the principle of legal certainty established as a criterion for the rule of law, the requirement of sufficient preparation time is clearly ensured. Instead of six so far, the system of special legal order cases would be reduced to three categories: state of war, state of emergency and emergency, and some of them will be changed. In all three aspects, it should be pointed out that the government would have a central role. The reason for this is quite simply that, following the publication of the special legal order, we need quick, operational and politically and legally responsible decisions, which the executive power, i.e. the government, in the Hungarian constitutional system, is the most suitable. Even before we get into a full delegation debate with my fellow left-wing Members, I would like to stress that the introduction of the right of regulation into the government will also place the responsibility of delegation on the government, as well as the exercise of the mandate in the government's system of responsibilities to Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, ladies and gentlemen of the Council, The ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law is supported by the Fidesz Group on the basis of the reasons I have presented. I would ask my fellow left-wing Members to support this proposal. You expect us to accept the difference; we also ask you to support what is natural. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-18-220	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The main speakers of the Jobbik Group are now coming, as the group has announced that their two representatives, Mr Csaba Gyüre and Mr György Szilágyi, will share the group position. First, I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Gyure, please.
u2020-11-18-221	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, First of all, I would like to thank the Government for having tabled the amendment of the Fundamental Law again in such a way that it was preceded by a wide-ranging social debate, which they made visible to society early on; they discussed this issue with people; they sought the opinion of the people; they sought the opinion of professional organisations. Obviously, this is the way to constitutionalize in Hungary, this is the Fidesz method. We are used to this, since in 2010, the same method was followed, and the basis of this law was adopted in the same way, the basic law, which is granite-solid, in the same way. You have played a huge charade at the time, and you are not willing to do it any more; then you have set up a committee that prepared the ground for the new constitution, which was the so-called Constitutional Prep ad hoc committee. [[18.00]] It worked seriously, put the concept on the table, it was advertised to the people, people, trade unions, civil and professional organisations could give an opinion on this. And when all this was collected by the government, what happened? They threw this in the trash, and then we found something completely different. Well, so much for the system of national cooperation, which unfortunately doesn't work at all. Suddenly, I think of Mátyás Rákosi, who is not with us is against us, because this is also the motto of Fidesz-KDNP in Hungary. Unfortunately. You don't want people's opinions. You will tell us that, of course, we are curious, here is the national consultation, and we ask people about everything. Yeah, they're asking very serious questions. It happened to be in my bag, the last one, your country, your voice, national consultation paper, where they ask very serious questions. Should we maintain the epidemiological alert for as long as there is a risk of a return to the epidemic? Who would say no in Hungary? Or should we strengthen the epidemiological protection of nursing homes? Who would answer no to that question? Or, do you think we need the CDC watch? Of course. Who wants to get sick, who wants to get sick? No one, obviously. Banks and multinationals should also contribute to the cost of protection. I'm sure there are some bank managers, maybe some owners, who would say no to that, but it's pretty obvious that everyone's saying yes. Or: maintain employment protection and creation programmes? Or to spend an invisibly long time in debt to our country? Well, who's gonna answer those questions with a yes? I do not want to say what you see Hungarian society as, but rather I do not say the word about what you see Hungarian society as. You are playing an act here in the House, and since 2010, you have been constantly deceiving Hungarian citizens, and you are incredibly not interested in the opinion of Hungarian citizens. You think you know the drill, and that's incorruptible, you have two-thirds, and you're gonna tell me that you've been given the authority. I note here that in 2010 nobody's program, in one party's program, was not included in the constitution, only Jobbik Hungary Movement was the one who put his program on the table, and the programme included the need to establish a new constitution, since it was XX. Law is outdated and needs to be done again. We made that very clear, and we were the only ones who took a serious stand on this. Mónika Dunai told me a lot about the Basic Law. I quote literally: the Fundamental Law is an alliance between the past, the present and the future. Just not among the Hungarian people. For them, this may be an alliance between the past, the present and the future. It is a living framework that expresses the nation's will. It is clear what it expresses: the will of Fidesz, which under all circumstances is forced upon Hungarian society, the Hungarian people. Here is where I note that we ourselves had tabled a hundred amendments to the Fundamental Law. Of these, you have accepted zero, just as you have not accepted any amendments from the other opposition parties. This debate is false, too, because there is nothing to add. Then you will tell the Secretary of State to make an amendment, why no amendment will be submitted, and then we will examine and take into account it. He's just not telling us that we're gonna throw him in the trash without taking any real care of him, because there won't be anyone to deal with that, because they'll never take it into account. What happened here? József Szájer's laptop should be referred to, everyone knows how the new constitution was created. It is very simple to say, Mr Mónika Dunai, that anyone who does not support this does not support Hungarian society, the safety and development of Hungarian children, and the rest. It's very simple to say. Plus, you're referring to a point. But what should we not support or support? What kind of system did you build? What's it about? It's about public money. Well, that's one of the most important chapters. You guys throw in a rubber bone, let's all chew on it, and let's get rid of the public money, 'cause we want to get rid of it. When I took it into my hands, I read this amendment, and I got to the public funds, and I remembered that Fidesz-KDNP was about to change government? 'Cause we need to get rid of the property. We're talking about money that needs to be hidden so they don't see it, and we need to eliminate the public finances of these money. We see that over the past ten and a half years there has been a clear effort, that Fidesz-KDNP's efforts have been continuous: the elimination of public money transparency and its limitation. The Hungarian citizen must not see where the public money goes, what the public money will be. At all levels, you have prevented opposition politicians, opposition parties or even civil society organisations from getting access to the right data. These have been denied by you, by public authorities, by your extended hands, by the outstretched hand of the executive power, constantly refusing to provide the data. In the same way, they debated the public money character of Tao money, and they also tried to show that people had nothing to do with where these money went. The same public funds transferred to foundations are now being used to make them disappear and to eliminate the possibility to continue to be monitored. But here's the money for state-owned companies, what's gonna happen to that, what's gonna happen to that. We know very well that we remember when the COF received HUF 500 million from one moment to the next. But we can keep talking about billions that are flowing out to the organisations you support, where you say they are, where these money is going, and they refuse to give out the most important data on this, not even the most basic data. We see it as if the government wants to build a shadow state that has a good share of public wealth, a good part of public wealth, and even if there is a change of government in Hungary, you can exercise power over finance in certain cases. You're trying to cement these leaders, make them irreplaceable, and you're trying to make these foundations completely small-scale. They say we need to define the nature of public money, because we don't know what public money is. Well, of course we know what public money is. The practice of the court has also made it clear, because the problem is that in the last ten years we have had to bring countless court cases to prove that this is a matter of public money, and you do have to tell us where the public money has been disposed of, what has become of that public money. You have denied this in a row, which is why a lot of court proceedings have been launched, in which it has been clearly stated, and court practice has determined that where public money is used, where public money is spent, there is a need for transparency and transparency. You want to eliminate this transparency. I think it might have been the SDS that announced that glass pocket program. We can't talk about this anymore, but what we need to see is that this glass pocket is very vague, made of milk bottles that you can't see through. That's your philosophy. Where does this road lead, where does your path lead? Let's look at the world ranking of corruption, where Hungary has gone in this world ranking of corruption, for example, over the last ten years. Amazing, please. It is amazing that Hungary is sitting on the bench of shame in Europe and in the world, and it is nobody else's fault but the two-thirds majority and the Orbán government alone. Today we are talking about the fact that, of course, all Visegrad countries in the European Union are ahead of us, so they are less corrupt. We are the most corrupt country in Visegrád, and we are the second most corrupt country in the European Union, ahead of Bulgaria, in a dead race with Romania. [[To Lőrinc Nacsa, István Hollik and Dr. Imre Vejkey:]] Yeah, you can laugh at that, the KDNPs are obviously very happy about it, and obviously they're going to do everything they can to make it worse, and obviously this law is going in that direction. In 2012, eight other EU countries were more prominent, even though there were fewer members of the European Union, there were only eight countries, but today we have managed to achieve that there is only one more ugly place from us. The situation is deteriorating, Hungary is falling back on this ranking, and I believe that this is also the aim of the amendment of the Fundamental Law: to take the first place in the EU, to make Hungary the most corrupt country in the European Union. The task of the state institutional system today is to put pro-government actors and NER knights in position, to keep Fidesz in power, to increase the wealth of politicians and the economic people who stand by them. We can say that there is an institutionalised system of corruption in Hungary today. I would no longer call the NER system NER, but the IKR system, the system of institutionalized corruption. So it's not a NER system, it's an ICS system in the future. According to the Corruption Report, I quote. The essence of current domestic state corruption is to redistribute economic resources by various means, to create a new elite, to reward and position those close to the government. [[18.10]] Through the public money pump, taxpayers' money becomes private property in violation of the rule of law. Corruption has become part of the system, not a side effect. Well, so much for what you have achieved, and this amendment will confirm that. I already see the answers that, of course, George Soros had his own NGOs write them, and obviously they're attacking the Hungarian government because he doesn't want to accept the migrants, and we'll hear the lines, the panels that you've received, the answers to that. But what do we see? We see who György Soros taught where they sit. It is only Viktor Orbán and Fidesz who were raised on the money of George Soros. They are the ones who took over the science of politics in the institutions of George Soros, so it is difficult to believe that they are not part of this system, and they really want to fight it. On this basis and on the basis of the amendments, it is obviously not for the reasons that my colleague Mónika Dunai said to us that it is extremely important that Hungarian children can develop in a healthy environment, without compromising their life and physical integrity, and that they should be useful members of the Hungarian country. I think that this is in the best interests of all parliamentary parties, of all factions. But I think that we should not put in such a bill any other proposals that would obviously not be acceptable to any democratic party, such as this, which is about creating the possibility that public funds in Hungary can continue to be ploughed out in an institutionalised form, even more. That's not why we came here. Of course, this is why we cannot support it, but my colleague György Szilágyi will continue. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-18-222	Thank you very much. As Congressman has bells bells bells, now his fellow party, Mr György Szilágyi, will continue to express their opinion. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-223	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. President. First of all, it is very sad, and it is also outrageous, that when in Hungary health workers and people struggle to survive every day, the most important thing for you is to ensure theft and to ensure the protection of stolen money, and that is why the ninth amendment of the so-called granite-solid Fundamental Law was introduced, since this is what this is all about. The former Minister of Finance is well-known to you, a saying marked by the name of György Matolcsy, who is now the President of the Central Bank, which has become a verb, and he said: "You have lost the character of public money." The fact that this is not the case is no more justified than the 2016 judgment of the Metropolitan Court, which states that the assets of the Hungarian National Bank are national assets, the Hungarian National Bank also manages public funds, according to the court it is not important that the budget of the central bank is strictly one of the sub-schemes of public finances, i.e. it is subject to the Finance Act or it decides its own management, as it is generally public funds allocated by the State to all exclusively state-owned entities or received from any other source. However, government arrogance is essentially seen in every legislative act. It was no different in 2016. Only a few days after that court ruling, there was an amendment from the pro-government benches, submitted by Erik Bánki, which happened to be aimed at amending the Act on the National Bank of Hungary, and after the final judgment, I quote in the explanatory statement that you wrote, Erik Bánki, that if a foundation was created, the property would be separated to a degree that would also make it possible that the property provided by the founder would lose its public assets. Despite the fact that the founder had previously managed by public property, this wealth was transferred to the foundation, leaving the founder's property and its supervision, it is owned by a newly created legal person, thereby losing its public ownership. To put it bluntly, they did nothing but use the power of the legislators in your hands, i.e. in fact abusing them, simply hindering the power of justice. But let's see what's in the ninth softening of the current granite law. They say public money is the income, expenditure and demand of the state. That's it, that's all. They've been on the government for a decade. We have been waiting for a decade, as they explain in their reasoning, so that there is a common practice instead of different practices of constitutional bodies. Well, I think, too, my fellow Members, Lőrinc Nacsa, who is very much nodding, that I am now showing you how uniform this practice is with this, which you have just put before us, that, by that definition, we have not gone any further. If you read the law and look at some other laws, then you'll realize that you nodded completely for nothing, although I'm guessing you already have the constant nodding or yelling in your blood. However, it is also in serious contradiction with the provision introduced by the amendment with its own justification. Take it out, Congressman Nacsa, I'm just saying to the record that he keeps pointing and yelling and all that, the law, follow what I'm saying, and then he'll realize that I'm right, and you're not very good at it. But I'm gonna keep telling you, okay? This is what it says, because you write the justification in your second sentence. Now, once again, show me, it feels so good, really, that with the definition of the concept, all constitutional, state-of-the-art attention! and covers local government bodies, state and municipal institutions. Yes, you heard me, Congressman Nacha. Thus, while the specific legislative text is exclusively and specifically about the revenue of the State, the justification already includes municipal bodies and municipal institutions. What a piece of work this is, fellow Members. Yeah, what a piece of work this is. How could they put it in there if you think that's true, then why did they put it in there? You put it in there. I'm not saying it. It's here in your statement of reasons. That's what we've been waiting for for for three government cycles. I find it hard to believe that in your apparatus there would not be many highly qualified lawyers who could not spell out what public money is. That is certainly not what this is all about, but the fact that you can fish well in confusion, says the saying, and that is what you are following. We see a number of examples of you legitimizing theft, which means it's now legitimized. It would be more understandable if you simply wrote that public money is what you steal. I think that the broad public already knows this, and no one would have difficulty interpreting it, not even Lőrinc Nacsa. By narrowing down in such a very primitive manner what public money is in five words, all they do is to paralyze all other funds that you have not listed here, but which belong to the public, from what is public money. This, of course, makes a mockery of the entire Hungarian legal order and the legal environment, as legislation can be classified as a large number of regulations which contain very serious provisions on the use of public funds, transparency of use and ensuring public control. These laws do not apply only to State resources. Let's see, let's say, the Public Finance Act, which lays down, for example, that the general government consists of a central and municipal subsystem. Where, then, is the reference to municipal resources from the Fundamental Law? Where is he? Why do you only remember this in the justification? Why did they just put it in the explanatory statement? Or let us look at the law on public procurement, which already states in the preamble that the aim of the law is to ensure the transparency and public control of the efficient use of public funds, followed by Article 5. Paragraph (c) of the Act states that the public foundation, the local government, the local and national minority self-government, the association of local and minority self-governments, the association of regional development self-governments, the regional development council, the regional development council, is required to carry out a public procurement procedure. [[18.20]] If that is true, and that is the law on public procurement, then I ask why the resources managed by the latter bodies and organisations do not appear in the list of amendments to the basic law. But I can also mention the law on the transparency of public funds. You know what he says? It is also stated in the preamble that the Parliament therefore constitutes the following law in order to increase the transparency of public funds. It goes on to say: "This Act covers aid granted in kind or in money from public finances sub-systems, EU funds, other programmes financed under the international agreement, a foundation set up by a 100% state-owned organisation. Isn't it interesting? Thus, public money is also all the resources from the budget of the European Union and from other programmes financed under any other international agreement. But public money is also the source of the foundation created by the 100% state-owned organisation. I don't understand how these provisions escaped your attention when they thought they were going to start constitutional again. Let us not go without a word to the law on national property. According to this, the national assets include financial assets owned by the State or the local government, as well as corporate shares of the State or the local government. Yeah, you heard me, state and government again. However, with regard to public funds, you have not only stepped on ice in connection with the National Bank, let us look at the Tao subsidies. This was also one of those topics where you thought that you could spread them freely by avoiding the public. Then the Curia pointed out, and I quote the Curia: "The corporate tax relief granted to support so-called visual sports is public money, since if the companies did not offer it for the specific purpose, they would constitute direct tax revenue from the budget. I suggest that you also study the case law, such as Lőrinc Nacsa. Accordingly, public funds are also all sources which, in the absence of a legal offer, would otherwise be tax revenue. So this is the Tao, but the 1-1 percent, the church and the civil society organization's income offers. I think it is therefore obvious to anyone that the short sentence intended to be inserted into the Fundamental Law is not coherent with the legislation in force and that it ignores the established judicial practice. Such a provision not only facilitates but makes the work of law enforcement bodies and persons even more difficult and makes uniform practice impossible, not only by creating it, but also by making it impossible. Speaking of foundations, I think it is worth discussing this part in a little more detail, as the amending proposal also makes some changes in this respect. They consider it important to have a fundamental law on the establishment, operation and termination of a public trust fund with a public service mission. Big pass has a big slope. says the saying. It's not the first time, but it's probably not the last time you're prepared to fail. Why else would it be important for you to protect the property that has been saved in foundations at this level? Overall, I think that in November 2020, in this serious situation that requires the lives of thousands of our countrymen, you will not stop with the practice that you have, unfortunately, been consistent for more than ten years. They don't govern for the public, they just look at how to legalize what, in accordance with a normal legal order, would be quite simply a public theft, or how they can ensure themselves for the very soon to come, when they're not on government, they're on edge, and this time, believe me, will come very soon. [[To the intervention of Lőrinc Nacsa:]] Even if it's Nacsa Lawrence again doesn't like it. Allow me not to go along with the amendment that we have tabled, and then in a normal speech I will tell you that my fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, would like to help you with your work, and I will recommend our legislative proposal to your attention, but I do not have time for that now. However, I still have to answer some of the points that Mónika Dunai told me. Most of all, I would like to get an answer from a congresswoman on one thing. The Congresswoman said that children also have rights, and these rights should also be protected. I would like to ask the congresswoman that about a month ago I drew her attention to the fact that as a representative of Rákosmente Fidesz, do everything possible to ensure that former Fidesz deputy mayor of Rákosmente, Tivadar Fohsz, who was involved in a pedophile scandal, does not fill positions that still hold positions, such as the Board member of the Rákoskert Church Foundation. You know, Congresswoman, a member of the building board of the Makovecz Church is a man suspected of pedophilia, suspected of sexual abuse in connection with his own daughter. I asked for your intervention, that if you no longer apologize on behalf of your former fellow Member, who, as I said, was the deputy mayor of Fidesz on behalf of the 17th. in the district, you do everything you can to prevent this man from occupying positions in our district, in Rákosmenten, which, I believe, does not belong to him. And I also asked you because you do not mind that Tivadar Fohsz is also the chairman of the Curatorial Board of the Christian Foundation, to try to do everything possible to achieve this. Unfortunately, I have not heard an apology from the congresswoman since then, and I do not know that anything has been done to their former Fidesz Vice Mayor, who, I repeat, is hopefully held accountable on suspicion of pedophilia. I'm just saying this because you repeatedly said that children also have rights. Yes, he has rights, Tivadar Fohsz's daughter also has rights, and he should be protected from such beastly criminals as the former mayor of Fidesz. Once again, if you will allow me, I will talk to Csaba Gyüre about our amendment in a normal speech. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-11-18-224	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The Group of the Christian Democratic People's Party indicated that two speakers presented the group's position, which has changed since then. Thus, Congressman Imre Vejkey will state the position of the KDNP. [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Here you go.
u2020-11-18-225	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is also important to preserve the functioning of our country in the midst of the pandemic. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó's intervention:]] Yeah, I told you before, but you guys kept saying things that weren't right, so I'm forced to stress that. It is important for Parliament to meet continuously and continue its legislative work. As part of this, the Minister of Justice presented the T/13647 on the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law of Hungary. Bill No. 1. Ladies and Gentlemen, Unfortunately, I must state in today's debate and even in yesterday's debate that the campaign of lies and the mood of lies on the left is increasingly taking place not only in relation to other legislative proposals, but also in respect of the Fundamental Law itself, as regards the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law, even though the Fundamental Law is the peak of the pyramid of our legal system. The left-wing parties deliberately wash the normal functioning of Parliament with the control of the epidemic, even though we have said many times today and yesterday what belongs to the government on the basis of the mandate for 90 days, and then what belongs to Parliament. [[18.30]] And it is clear that Parliament is functioning normally, it is clear that any Member of Parliament, the government, can submit a bill, and it is quite clear that regardless of all this, the government has been given an extraordinary mandate from Parliament for 90 days to defend itself against the epidemic, but only to do so. That's why you can't confuse the two things, just like you do if you're trying to mislead people. Please don't do this. Ladies and Gentlemen, The Fundamental Law is the basis of our country's legal order. The Fundamental Law can also be defined as the alliance between the past, the present and the Hungarians of the future. In the Fundamental Law, the proper physical and mental education of children has been given special attention. The current family protection amendment of the Fundamental Law guarantees the undisturbed development of the child's birth sex and states that the woman in the family is the mother and the man is the father. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's not what you're saying.]] You have cynical remarks, I can still hear our colleague Andrea Varga-Damm [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: But that's not what you're saying.]] And here's the thing. That, unfortunately, we have to say such fundamental truths. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's not what it says!]] The ninth fundamental law amendment also covers the protection of universities, ensuring the long-term, stable functioning of these foundations and the stable background of universities. The amendment of the basic law clearly and clearly defines the concept of public money for the whole public operation, guaranteeing its transparent use. Finally, the amendment to the basic law will create a clearer situation for extraordinary situations. It reduces their number from the current six to three, so in the future, as an extraordinary legal order, it would only be a state of war, a state of emergency and an emergency. Ladies and Gentlemen, In today's world, it is essential to establish a legal set of rules that protect the interests of future generations in addition to the regulation of children who have already been born. For a thousand years, the Hungarian nation has been constantly expressing its desire to live in a Christian national form. Christian national form, and this will could only be overwritten by occupation or total dictatorship. We Hungarians consider traditional Christian values important. Thus, we consider the creation of the world to be important, as well as the creation of a man as a man and a woman. Genderideology, which makes the mystery of men and women relative, is a growing concern. Natural law on the forms and content of human communities is increasingly threatened by open society and LGBT ideology. It is therefore very important to protect children's rights and the rights of future generations at the basic level of law. We must say, in the interest of the human dignity of the growing and future generations, that men are men and women; and that birth is not natural and cannot be changed. You have to say that the mother is a woman and the father is a man. It should be stated that the child's identity is consistent with the child's birth sex. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's not how it's written!]] [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's not how it's written!]] We must say that our children... may not like the congresswoman, but we do. (Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It's not written that way!) It must be said that we want to raise our children from nursery to university according to the values of our country's constitutional identity and culture, and we want to do so whether left-wing representatives like it or not. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea keeps interrupting.]]
u2020-11-18-226	Congresswoman!
u2020-11-18-227	This alone provides a stable basis for Hungary to remain a strong community of security in the future. Ladies and Gentlemen, Fidesz-KDNP stands for objective truth. We stand up, and our stand looks so serious, that the dark side is doing everything it can against us. He's coming at us by timulating tolerance to give up our values. It will come upon us through the golden calf; it will come upon us by various NGOs and other powers, so that in the future sin is not called sin, but good and good, and good is not called good, but bad and should be rejected. Remember, we can only maintain our 1,000 - year faith and culture by saying that we are opposed to the evils that are falling on us. In this struggle, victory is not given for free. In combat, we must take on the gloves and stand bravely for the objective truth. If we do not put on the gloves, we are not pious, but those who have given up their Christian faith and Christian culture, and that would mean that the dark side has won. We can't let that happen, we won't let that happen. That's why we're getting the attacks from you, which is why we're getting the attacks from the European Union, whatever they're packing them into. I would like to refer to the speeches made by the two Jobbik leaders before me. Csaba Gyüre's speech was surreal. It was surreal that, hiding behind the well-known György Jobbik Soros, he communicated narratives of the foundations he financed here in Parliament. [[Interventions and publicity in the opposition.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Your narrative is false and false. [[Defiance in the opposition's benches.]] And I can say the same for the speech of our fellow Member György Szilágyi. He was talking about public money. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: You are not ashamed!]] What is the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law about public money? The Fundamental Law has a separate part of public money compared to the previous constitution, while the constitutionalist has not yet defined the concept of public money. This proposal, amendment number nine, would replace that. [[György Szilágyi intervenes.]] It would replace it by defining that public money is the revenue, expenditure and demand of the state. [[György Szilágyi: Bad! Bad!]] I think that's the right definition. The proposal would thus define the concept of public money because of different interpretations in the practice of constitutional bodies and other law-applicationers in this context, and it has therefore been clearly defined, clearly and comprehensively, for the purposes of public operations as a whole. I do not know why my fellow Members, my fellow Members on the left, do not like that public money is defined in a comprehensive manner. [[György Szilágyi: Well, this is bad!]] By definition, the concept would cover all constitutional state, municipal, state and municipal bodies. [[György Szilágyi: That's not true!]] According to a related justification, clarification is also necessary because, according to the Fundamental Law, public money data is public interest data. The aim of the legislation is to close the public debate and ensure full guarantees of the transparency rules of the Fundamental Law. And I didn't really understand my fellow Member's concerns, either, I would say, about his siren voices with regard to public-service trust foundations. [[18.40]] Because the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law states that the establishment, operation and termination of a public trust fund with a public service mission must be provided for by a fundamental law. By supplementing this Parliament, it makes faith in the separation of public-law and private-law relations, essentially for the stability of long-term social processes and legal certainty. My fellow Members, what is it you don't like about this? I don't understand. The new basic rule of law would also strengthen the independence of public-interest trust foundations from the government at all times by linking their most fundamental rules to the fundamental laws. Ladies and Gentlemen, I believe that the examples presented clearly prove that this Fundamental Law is axiome, i.e. worthy and just. It is worthy of Hungary, so I ask you to support it. The KDNP parliamentary faction supports it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-228	Thank you very much. We now have the lead speaker of the MSZP Group, Mr Tamás Harangozó. He's giving his keynote speech about the pulpit. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó enters the speaker's stand.]] Here you go.
u2020-11-18-229	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Well, here we are, discussing the ninth crack in the granite-solid Fidesz policy called the Fundamental Law. I think that the absurdity of the situation is best expressed by the meme that travels across the Internet, which says that the Fundamental Law is like a customer's complaint book, who goes there and writes something in it. Half the country laughs at themselves through this and this. It's just, you know, there's nothing funny about that. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: No.]] Especially if we look at the content and circumstances of the proposal. And yes, I will once again tell my fellow Member Vejkey honestly, with infinite indignation that hundreds of people are dying, hundreds of people are dying. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Hundreds or hundreds?]] every day in Hungary; that in the last two weeks, twice as many people die in this country compared to Austria, which you have set your example; that yesterday we have sunk or come to the point that the Minister for Health himself has announced that it is possible that in the near future doctors will have to decide on life and death, because health care will collapse or collapse. And then you will bring such a fundamental amendment to this House. Madam Attorney General stormed in here, said her speech quickly, read it, and then stormed off. [[Nacsa Lőrinc Szabó Timea, in place: Szabó Timea!]] He started, and I wrote it down: this proposal serves the interests and security of the Hungarian people. No, it's not. No, it's not. This proposal, honourable Members, serves only the power and material interests of Viktor Orbán, Fidesz, the small family and friends circle and business partners. That's all there is, nothing more. [[György Szilágyi: That's right!]] There are three main issues in this proposal. The first to express and even fulfill your homophobic, racist political views. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Careful! Nacsa Lőrinc: What racist? The president's ringing the bell.]] I am not careful about this, fellow Members. They also gave every reason to say that there is no place for caution. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Then calm down.]] It's been written in words that Daddy's a boy, Mommy's a girl. I hope you haven't thought about it in the last ten years. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] But the problem is, it's not these two words or these two sentences that are interesting, it's what's behind them and why you're doing this. Tell me... [[Dr. Pál Völner: Don't you believe it?]] I'll tell you what. You are constantly and regularly targeting a minority, a group of people who cannot defend themselves in this country, and you hit them, you cripple them, you hurt them. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: What?]] That's what I'm talking about. That is also the case in this proposal. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Give me specifics!]] And the only thing I care about is, tell me, does that feel good? Do you feel their power? The childhood memory flashes up, the ants are burned with a magnifying glass? What good is this, fellow Members? [[Dr. Pál Völner: Don't quote your own childhood. Nacsa Lőrinc: What have you done?]] What good is this, fellow Members, tell me! I understand that ideological issues also need to be addressed, but I would only ask my fellow Members with Fidesz and KDNP, and indeed I would like to call on them to study what the Pope said on this issue not so long ago, just a month ago, before giving a hypocritical justification for Christianity. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: What did he say? What did he say? Nacsa Lőrinc: Male and female. The president's ringing the bell.]] Check it out. The second part of this proposal is basically raising institutionalized theft to the statutory level. So far, he's been in ordinary laws, two-thirds laws, obviously the court has put this right, they can't stand it anymore, they have to put it in the Fundamental Law. This applies to redefining or defining public funds as well as to the extraction of foundation assets. The latter is all about the fact that the common property of the Hungarian state, i.e. the Hungarian people, has been simply returned to Hungary in the form of foundations for the past six months and in the laws currently before Parliament in the form of foundations. They take it out of state property, transfer it to private property, form a foundation. We're talking terrible billions. They planted the board of trustees with their own people, and most likely because they fear that in 2022 this nanny will be over, they will now put it in the Fundamental Law so that no one can take it back. I'm sure they won't succeed. You can be sure of that. As a matter of fact, they do not understand the problem with the concept of public money: they know exactly why it was written in it. The court has already made it clear in the attempt at a national bank that it cannot lose its public money character, even if it is about tao money and bypasses the state system, and even if it is about the money of the National Bank, which is bypassing the budget. That's what you're making clear, yes. They make it clear that, for example, in addition to Tao money or public finances, let us say, tax revenues renounced are virtually excluded from control, the money that goes uphill is at the heart of Viktor Orbán's house, billions; those from which a stadium is built rather than spending on the health or livelihood of people. The only difference in the future, ladies and gentlemen, is that even a court will not force you to spend the wasted money and the wasted property exactly. And as far as rewriting the extraordinary legal order is concerned, the point is, in short, tendingly, that in such situations, you intend to eliminate Parliament. In the event of war, the defence council will be abolished, where the leaders of the parliamentary parties will sit, the President of the Republic will be sitting, and the members of the government will be sitting there. All decisions will be taken by the government, no parliamentary control, no political control in the future in this regard. But the same is being introduced by the fact that virtually three people will say that the Parliament is inoperative, the Prime Minister, the Speaker of the House and the President of the Constitutional Court. And this will be extended to the time of emergency. And if these three people say that they are, then the Hungarian Parliament will not meet. And at this moment, for example, the President of the Republic will decide to extend the emergency situation in one person. They have the right to write what they want, but please understand that in this case, these rules have one thing in common: they take away the opportunity to take decisions about the government from the parliamentary majority at hand, not from the opposition. [[18.50]] The person who wrote this proposal is no longer afraid of the opposition, but of the ruling parties, i.e. his own representatives and his own group, and will take away the choice from them. Give him a round of applause, argue for him, vote for him. There's a part in this that's still life-threatening. There's only one word missing from the possibility of declaring a state of emergency. It literally sounds like an act of overthrow, subversive or exclusive acquisition of power. The only word left out is violent, violent. Please tell me what the young people of the University of Theatre and Film have done. Is that what you think is turning me over? Is a national mass demonstration going to be a turn-on? Could it be a national strike? They have one thing in common: if the government will judge it, it can be, and not violent, but peaceful acts. At times like this, you can't help but think that the changes to these rules are not accidentally included in the Fundamental Law. There is no further need to make any legal arguments or any other further arguments. This proposal, as I said, is all about power and money. And Fidesz, when it comes to power and money, knows no jokes. This is not a joke at all, fellow Members. Go ahead, they'll cut down the tree. If you go this way, people will drive you away. Please withdraw this proposal and be kind enough to deal with what you have to do. Save people's lives and help people in trouble. Keep in mind that people do not have to choose between their health and their livelihoods, and that at least during the outbreak of the virus, they should quickly introduce a hundred percent of their sick money. The madness that from 1 January, in the middle of the crisis, catatonic taxation will be abolished and taxed on 300,000 people in the middle of the virus epidemic is immediately withdrawn; so that people can receive wage support so that they do not lose their jobs, so that workers, pensioners and families can get immediate help from the government; so that health care does not collapse, so that people can save their lives! We ask you to deal with this and to withdraw this proposal. Thank you for listening.
u2020-11-18-230	Thank you very much. We now have the lead speaker of the Democratic Coalition, Congressman Gergely Arató, notary of the Parliament. You're welcome to come up.
u2020-11-18-231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, We are in the middle of a pandemic and a very serious health situation in Hungary, when health disaster, economic disaster and social disaster threaten the country. We are in a situation where health services operate across all borders when health workers provide extraordinary, superhuman performance when this system creaks, when it is not or hardly possible to keep the education system in operation, when protection against the epidemic requires an extraordinary sacrifice from many of our countrymen. And in this situation, what's important to you? The important thing is to have fun with the Fundamental Law. The important thing is to create political problems, and the important thing is to cement their own theft. That's what's important to you. You're abandoning this country. This amendment to the basic law is essentially about the fact that, on the one hand, what you have put away for yourself is losing its public money character, and it is now written in the Fundamental Law. If the court has decided that what has been cleared out of the budget in the name of the Taok is public money? Worse for the court, they're changing the Fundamental Law. From now on, it's not public money. If you think you can take public money to foundations and hand over the funds and funding along with the tasks? Well, then they'll put it in the Fundamental Law that it's protected by a two-thirds law. This is one of the content of this amendment to the basic law. What's the other content? It's the meanest, meanest hatred of all. 'Cause there's no misunderstanding when you're dreaming of conspiracys and daydreaming, and you're telling me how to put this very carefully? , the least fair and well-founded conspiracy that the world power, the lizards, György Soros and who knows who else will attack Hungary and take away their identity from the families or their identity from the Hungarian people, then this is the worst political hatred. The identity of the Hungarian people, thank God, will survive you, even though you are doing much more harm to them than Christianity, I might add, will survive you. Because the problem is not that you are Christians, and it would be very good for you to take more seriously, say, the 7-8th commandment or the love of your neighbor. It would be good for both you and the country. But you're only engaged in political Christianity, and you're only using it to incite hatred. They fell in love with the type of homophobic campaign that aims at targeting and attacking one or another group of people. And don't tell me it's not like that, it's gonna be Fidesz's honest self, our Homemade Dóra Dúró, and he's gonna tell us how we got from burning books, from apologizing to book grinding to changing the basic law. Finally, you have referred to natural conditions, and I would like to quote you. It has been said here in this House just over a hundred years ago:. The woman considers all activities outside the scope of motherhood and the care of the family to be contrary to her natural vocation. A fellow Member, a fundamentalist conservative like you, said when it came to giving women the right to vote. Now, you're messing with this, trying to turn the clock back 100 years, 200 years, 300 years, into a religious state. Otherwise, this Fundamental Law as a whole is not suitable for amendment or for taking it seriously. Neither do you, it will be changed three times in two and a half years, and I must say to you that this is a distraction. They cannot cope with the crisis, they cannot cope with meaningful tasks, they cannot deal with unemployment, poverty, the situation of families, they cannot help health and education, they cannot take care of people who are under a huge burden today. Instead, we are having this debate as a substitute act today. That's enough for today. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-11-18-232	Thank you very much. We now have the lead speaker of the LMP, Congressman László Keresztes, leader of the party. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-233	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, As a number of speakers, in the debate on the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law, I have the opportunity to respond to what my fellow Members have said before me, I have the opportunity to respond to the exposé that Minister Judit Varga said. But at the beginning of this important debate, I would like to start by thanking everyone who is working to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people with respect. I think this has been pointed out, fellow Members, that in such a situation, in such a crisis, because I believe that this word is not an exaggeration at all, and that the tone that my fellow members of the Government are applying in this debate is unworthy, and the situation that they have created in such a case, during such a terrible crisis, has been put forward to amend the Fundamental Law in such circumstances. My colleague Gergely Arató, who spoke before me, said that this is practically a distraction. I can tell you it's part of a distraction, but it's much worse than that. So in this amendment there are very, very serious attacks on national interests. Now, let's see what Madam Secretary has said. Didn't Judit Varga, Minister of Justice, actually start his expoze with a creed, and he said that, in fact, I don't literally quote that we have to fight to keep our country a strong community. I think we all agree on that perfectly. My fellow Members, perhaps Congressman Vejkey, have mentioned several times that we must also stand up for the interests of future generations. I think we agree perfectly with that, too. So these creeds, these formulated, start-up ideas, are appropriate, and I think they are the subject of consensus. [[19.00]] At the same time, Fidesz's lead speaker and Mónika Dunai spoke about an attack. I think that we can even agree that there is an attack, because if our task here in Parliament is to fight for national interests, to fight for the future generation, and to fight for it, really, as the Minister of Justice has said, to maintain our country as a strong community, we need such governance. There is a need for governance that, under all circumstances, considers national interests as a basis and always works and fights for national interests and people's interests. And indeed, there is an attack on these objectives, because if we ask whether Hungary has a government today that works consistently and truly for national interests, then we must say that it is not, and therefore we really need to speak up in this debate. And what must we do, I repeat, so that our country can survive as a strong community? For this, we really need national governance, a policy, a governance that ensures the conditions for remaining in the homeland, and provides the Hungarian people with a livelihood. Well, I can tell you that the Fidesz-KDNP government did very, very badly after 2010. There is a need for governance that ensures that hundreds of thousands of people do not have to migrate from this country out of compulsion, that thousands of families no longer have to be torn apart. They couldn't fulfil this, they couldn't meet this condition, and even this, like one of the greatest challenges we have had today, you have denied it. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] When we have debated this issue many times, you have put forward arguments that there is no problem here, that thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people have migrated, because nothing has happened but how the common labour market works. We have come to this point, they have spoken about the protection of children, which we also agree with, and we are now at the point that one in six Hungarian children in motherland are born abroad. I think that this is a national tragedy, and you have to take responsibility for that. Also, if we want to secure the nation's future, then we need to pursue a government policy that stops the country from breaking down, which in the smallest village ensures that the people who live there can plan their future. You have failed in this, too. They're doing the same village-destroying policy as their ancestors. The development policy we have seen from you has been a complete failure. Instead of stopping this tear, let alone preparing the country for the 21st century. To the challenges of the century, they wasted these money. Most of these development resources have been abducted by you. If we are to act in the interests of the nation, we must keep this in mind at every moment and reject the service of great authority over national interests and, where appropriate, refuse to serve the profit hunger of multinational companies. There are many examples for a long time when you have failed to do so. You can see that at any time you are able to lie down in front of Russian or Chinese great power interests, or at any time you are able to serve the profits of multinational companies, so you are able to serve Hungarian employees, their interests as well. If they really want to act for the good of the nation and face the challenges that affect it, then they must preserve the natural resources, the land, the waters, the forests. We have seen in the last ten years that you have not been able to do so, and in fact, you have been politically engaged in this. Also, if we are to ensure the future of the nation, Mr Vejkey has talked about future generations, we must ensure a healthy environment for our children, stop nature destruction and see, recognise the shocking challenges, the unprecedented challenges that we have faced. You have denied this problem until recently, and have not even been willing to engage in a substantive debate on this issue, and we can see what you have done in the institutional system of nature conservation over the last ten years. They practically smashed it. If we really want to fight for the interests of the nation, then we need to provide the most important public services for Hungarian people with good, well-founded governance, public transport, water services, health care, social care, and all about public education. You have failed in this, too. So we can tell you that you guys used to beat your boobs a lot, how well you can steer. Unfortunately, it has come to light to everyone today that you are mismanaging and that you have not been able to do anything about the system problems that have existed for decades, and that in many ways you have made worse the situation that you inherited in 2010. Indeed, if we want to work for the interests of the nation, then we need a government that recognizes the 21st century. It is able, willing, to respond to the challenges of the century, to recognise and to take the government measures that are really necessary for this. And there's not enough propaganda to do that. This requires sincere speech and cooperation, where necessary, in areas where cooperation and cooperation are needed, since, now, the 21st edition of the 21st edition of the European Parliament and of the Council. We face many challenges that we cannot solve at national level. Not only did you recognise these tasks, but you often oppose these fundamental steps, which are once again necessary to ensure the right future for the Hungarian nation. So what I can tell you is that the arguments you have formulated are false, and your governance is a failure. And in this situation, as we are now facing a real crisis, we do not have to fight mirages, we have to fight virtual enemies that are not formulated, we are in a very difficult crisis, and we can see that communication and propaganda will not be enough. We need real, good governance here, which you have failed to do. So I agree with the lead speaker of Fidesz that there is indeed an attack, because I see corruption at historical level. What I see is that you have built a class of so-called national capitalists, who have shown that, in spite of the thousands of billions that have been shoveled out, when there is real trouble, they cannot be counted on by the nation. And when we draw attention to this, yes, we could now give back that money, and now we have to take responsibility for your national oligarchs and use the national here in your case in quotes, and you will sweep this proposal down and say that no, they do not have to take responsibility for the nation, in a difficult situation like this, we do not have to touch the wealth that has been attacked in the past. Yes, there is, therefore, an attack on national interests: the draining of national assets, and part of that is the amendment of the basic law. You betray national interests and pawn the future of the Hungarian nation. The adventurous policy, which was the latest expression of the attempt to veto the EU budget here for their own power-technical intentions, is a continuation of this line, which is quite shocking. After having served great authority many times and repeatedly said no to proposals that really serve the interests of the nation, I think that this is outrageous, because in this situation you have to do everything you can, and it is your responsibility to reach Hungary with the huge resources, the resources necessary for effective health protection, are necessary to reduce the effects of the economic crisis, and are necessary to rebuild the economy in line with principles, seeing the challenges of the present time that take these effects into account, and will be able, say, to resist in a similar crisis. Such a patriot economic policy would be necessary, which is not in your policy. We have talked about the Budapest-Belgrád railway line a thousand times here. It's a symbol. You spend 1000 billion forints on this never-due, encrypted project. What's this about? It is about serving the great powers of China and making it impossible for a patriot economic policy to be built based on local or regional cooperation to create the most important assets. That would give us real jobs, as opposed to high-power interests. You have failed to do so, and it is a shocking, symbolic step, that in a situation like this, in the middle of the crisis in 2020, during the first wave, Parliament's meeting was used to encrypt this shameful project, its documents, and speed up this project. Only this year and next year, you spend so much money on this project, which would be equivalent to creating 175 thousand new Hungarian jobs. And what was your answer to that? They've encrypted the documents. Now it is possible to sue to let the Hungarian people know what you are spending nearly HUF 1000 billion on their taxes in such a crisis, a deep economic crisis. And in doing so, they say that there is no way to reduce the VAT on basic foods, and that is to support families in the most difficult situation because budget resources are running out. This is an outrage, fellow Members. We are putting forward proposals to support the difficult Hungarian families, and you said that the register was empty. Well, we can see the register's empty. The first should have been that these pointless big investments will be abolished by you and these funds will be used for real economic protection. What does this amendment of the basic law contain? I'm not gonna go into ideological disputes. I believe that here the most important element of this bill is the draining of national assets, Mr Nacsa, and my honourable members of the Government, the incorporation of trust funds into two-thirds of the law. We're talking about public tasks. There have been some symbolic debates over the past period. You are organizing public tasks into trust foundations and pumping out huge elements of national wealth in a hundred billion-dollar order to these foundations, where we can really see that trust people from your moonyard are making the decisions. [[19.10]] And after these assets are transferred there, in most cases these foundations are even entitled to sell these assets afterwards, and this system cannot be changed, because you are putting this into a two-thirds system, a two-thirds law. In practice, and you have already referred to this, Mr Gyüre, you are working on a parallel system of power. It's an extremely dangerous thing. Not only are they betraying the interests of the Hungarian people, but they are developing a system of power that you may not be able to touch any more; but when you get to say, touch it, these assets may not be anywhere. That's amazing. A little while ago, we had a debate here on specific educational and talent-care tasks, which we agree with. I didn't get a meaningful answer as to why a property of great value, such as a property in Pécs, couldn't get to the people of Pécs, the local government of Pécs, or go to the University of Pécs. No, it had to be outsourced to a foundation, which the foundation can manage in any way, whether it can beat it to a drum, sell it. That's pretty amazing. Let it be clear to everyone that you will use this to build a parallel power system. And I see a similar problem with what you're doing to the municipalities. In a time of such a severe crisis, when the authorities are the number one bastions of defence, when we can say that without strong authorities there is no effective defence, you are constantly putting restrictions on the municipalities and trying to develop manual control in this respect. In recent years, I have written to 130 mayors about their opinion on the unfortunately expected measures in the next period, which the President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry has said to the Prime Minister and Minister Rogán, and we can now see from an interview the day before yesterday that they now want to effectively take away a large part of the revenue from the municipalities for two years. They also come from the mayors from letters, opposition and pro-government mayors, and they all unanimously reject this kind of shameful policy, which makes it impossible for the local government to operate, thereby preventing the municipality from carrying out its very important task in addition to basic public services such as drinking water, public transport, public lighting and protection. Perhaps they met with the statement of András Cser-Palkovics, mayor of Székesfehérvár Fidesz, and he also made it clear and clear that they should leave the municipalities. It's all part of this system. I can tell you, fellow Members, that I am a family man, a Christian, a Christian Christian man with a strong national commitment, and if someone attacks the importance of the family at any time, someone attacks national interests, whenever someone attacks the Christian foundations of Christian, European culture, they can count on me. But when it comes to betraying national interests and overcoming public wealth, I will always be your opponent. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-18-234	Thank you very much, Congressman. The lead speaker of the Dialogue Group is Mr Szabó Timea. The head of the faction will speak from here on the platform. We'll wait for him to get up. Here you go, ma'am. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-235	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Today, the debate that has already begun with the electoral law continues, an infinitely despicable and pathetic attempt on the part of the governing parties to divert attention from their inadequate disease management and to continue the ten-year-old theft and scamming of people we have been accustomed to from you. Pathetic and dishonest is the Fundamental Law before us, its content is pathetic and pathetic is the goal and the means you have presented it. Everyone who sits in this room and everyone who assisted on the part of the governing parties to this so-called granite-solid fundamental law amendment is so granite-solid that in a few years, we have been able to modify it to the ninth time. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Everyone who has assisted in this is aware that you have tried to distract people from the other side with one part of the amendment, which is basically the point. But let's go back to the circumstances of the submission before the content. Yes, it is incredibly vile, as this law has been tabled, our fellow Members and Honourable Government of Fidesz-KDNP. Once again, I have been able to submit a legislative amendment to the epidemic situation, to the disease management, which is not a speck of legislation. Again, how many lives will be saved by the amendment of the granite-solid Fundamental Law? How many coronal viral patients are you going to cure who are on a ventilator right now? How many people who have lost their jobs because of the plague will be helped to make a living that you're not helping now? Do you realize how many hundreds of thousands of people are losing their jobs, their livelihoods, how many ten thousand families are anxious now because they can't put dinner on their children's table? Are you aware of that? Are you aware that you are dealing with fundamental law amendment, theft, election fraud under the law instead of dealing with the epidemic in a normal way, rather than taking measures to prevent, say, Miklós Kásler from reporting that even after the tightening up, the government expects that the number of currently 7,000 patients in the hospital will go up to 28,000 in a month? That means your disease management has failed, and that means that the measures you've taken are not sufficient, so you've failed doctors, nurses, people, patients. Shame on you! Let's get to the law, which is not much better than the submission itself. This whole law is a ridiculous and pathetic attempt to distract attention from the thefts of Viktor Orbán and Lőrinc Mészáros, a thousand billion. You've been stealing every day for ten years, but it seems that the approaching 2022 election is now so feared, you know so well that the opposition has a strong chance of defeating the government, that they are now sacrificing everything, every single life, every health, every living, just to cement your power. We know that's what the law is about, but they thought that the opposition would come, throw in a bait, and then the opposition would talk about a mother, a woman, a father, and a man, and say this to Mónika Dunai with a pátoss: [[In terms of words:]] The mother is a woman, the father is a man. [[Defiance in the opposition and in the independent ranks. Nacsa Lárinc: Why, isn't it?]] Thank you very much, Mónika Dunai. I don't think we should stop here. Let's just keep going. The dog is an animal and the tulip is a plant. [[Defiance in the opposition and in the independent ranks. Z. Carpathian Daniel: There's something about him!]] Do you really think we need to talk about this today? Who's the one who questioned that a mother is a woman? You're doing this because you think we're going to be talking about this, not that you're about to legalize that you're wheelbarrowing thousands of billions of people out of public money right now. Yeah, well, you know, you're crazy enough to put that stupid look on top of your head. But, you know, I thought that we really shouldn't stop here, so I tabled an amendment to this Fundamental Law that states that Viktor Orbán is a man [[Defiance in the opposition and in the independent ranks.]] [[Defiance in the opposition and in the independent ranks.]] [[Defiance in the opposition and in the independent ranks.]] And Lőrinc the Butcher is also a man. (Development in the ranks of the opposition and the independent. I don't think we should stop, make sure we don't get some Soros-rental goose here and question our lord's gender. (Development in the ranks of the opposition and the independent. ) Well, damn it. I'd like to tell you that it's funny, but it's not funny. The problem is that when you act as if you were questioning them, you also tabled a very vile amendment to the law on justice when you kicked into the weakest social group, orphans raised in children's homes. [[19.20]] The thing is, by believing that you'll be spotted here by gay couples, but by saying that you won't allow couples to adopt children, you'll take away the chances of growing up in a loving community, in a family, from thousands of children, vulnerable, poor children. You know, it's a very nice marriage, but what we do know is that today 40 percent of children in Hungary are born in partnerships. So you're questioning whether those families are legitimate? Are you questioning whether those couples have a right to raise their children with honor? [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's not that.]] Yeah, that's exactly what you guys do. By not allowing single people to accept these families, my fellow Members, by making them subject to a ministerial permit, they are doing one of the meanest things. But let us look at what this so - called granite-solid fundamental law amendment is really about. The purpose of redefining public funds is to explain what should be called an institutionalized theft. Judit Varga said that so far the Fundamental Law has not defined the concept of public money. Do you know why he didn't define public money? 'Cause everyone's been aware of that, except you guys. The whole country knows exactly what public money means, only Fidesz-KDNP, Viktor Orbán, Lőrinc Mészáros and István Tiborcz do not know what public money is. Shame on you! We know exactly what public money is. Public money is what we don't steal. It is public money that belongs to the Hungarian people, which belongs to everyone, which must be spent on health care, education, people's livelihood and well-being. Not the hotels of Lőrinc Mészáros, the luxury properties of István Tiborcz, the fashion companies of Orbán, and all that. You don't have to spend public money on the Fidesz-KDNP slepp. Everyone knew that, but you seem to have to define that. But let's also see how much money we're talking about when I'm trying to figure out how much money we have. Let's look at the trust funds to which assets have been transferred recently. There's the Mathias Corvinus College. Let's take a look at the stock market: there are 81 million 942 thousand A-series ordinary shares out of MOL shares, which is 156 billion forints in today's exchange rate. Richter 18 million 637 thousand ordinary shares at today's rate of 136 billion forints. Let's look at some of these real estate applications: in Pécs the building of the officer's casino, in Révfülöp the port, which is a 10-acre area with a castle, in Szekszárd the Hunyadi Street School, in Szombathely the college of the Teleki Blanka High School, and more. But let's look at the other, the Millenáris Foundation Cultural Nonprofit Kft.: it has HUF 9.18 billion capital. Then the Batthyány Lajos Foundation, where people close to Árpád Habony and András Tombor control the Foundation's six-member board. This is also very promising that these public foundations will then be linked to Árpád Habony. Then there is the Foundation for Education, Culture and Science for Civil Culture, just now the II. Klebelsberg Castle in the district, the Central European Educational Foundation with a 2 billion-dollar founder's fortune, the Central European Built Heritage Reserve Foundation, which has now received a HUF 5 billion capital increase, and then, of course, the universities' foundations. [[György Szilágyi: Now they are quiet.]] Yeah, they're really quiet right now, aren't they, the Fidesz KDNP guys all of a sudden, they're probably watching the Bug and the Baby, or I don't know. We know that if we add these together, we are talking about more than a thousand billion forints of public money with the most pessimistic estimate. That's what you're trying to define, which is what you're trying to steal. Well, hold it right there. The thing is, you guys are stupid enough to even put this law in a normal way, because there's a bit of confusion in the wording. You said by your definition that public money is the income, expenditure, demand of the state. I would just like to say that the wealth and money of the municipal authorities are, of course, public property and public money, while it is not the State's, and all the assets of public media are also public property, while it is not the State's property. The court has already ruled that public money cannot lose its public money character, so you are now amending the Fundamental Law so that there is something to refer to. That's impertinence, my fellow members of the government. You guys are sitting here, you're so-called "honons" to assist in this. But I will also help you to stop mingling with definitions and public foundations here again, so I also tabled another amendment, which states that the assets of Viktor Orbán's stooges and home-made oligarchs will be placed under the protection of the Holy Crown. I don't think we should mince it here with all sorts of foundations and transfers, and then there will be all kinds of legal disputes; let's just say the stolen Fidesz fortune here will be protected by the Holy Crown. You know, it's a joke again, but they understand that if we keep a mirror... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's tasteless!]] Well, my fellow Member Nacsa managed to make another good comment. What you have submitted is tasteless. It's not people's outrage that's tasteless. It's not tasteless that hundreds of thousands of people here are tired of this industrial theft you're doing. The distasteful thing is that you guys are laughing at hundreds of thousands of people starving to lose their jobs, hundreds of people dying in hospitals every day in a coronal virus, because you're more of a luxurious yachter in the summer instead of really preparing for the second wave of the coronal virus, and you're willing to spend the public money on it, not Lőrinc Mészáros. I said it many times, I will say it again, in the first spring wave, the government gave 200 billion forints to make up for lost wages to more than 200 thousand people, and at the same time it gave Lőrinc Mészáros only 186 billion forints. Where's the truth? Lőrinc Mészáros gets 186 billion forints alone while he gets the same amount of 200,000 people lost their jobs? Well, who's the Butcher Lawrence, really? The problem is that you believe that by including theft in the Fundamental Law, it will not be possible to recover this public money in 2022 after the change of government. Well, we have some bad news for you. In 2022, there will be a change of government, we will replace you, we will drive you away from the public register, and we will recover this public money. You can't make fun of me now that you can't do this by legal means. We're gonna get this back by legal means. And the thing is, the people who assisted in this are gonna go to jail for this. A lot of people. Now you think you're gonna get away with this. You think this is some kind of game because you've been doing this for ten years.
u2020-11-18-236	Congresswoman, Madam Head of the Group, I ask you very much not to threaten the Parliament.
u2020-11-18-237	Prison will not be a threat. It will be a promise, Your Honour, to the one who steals. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] If my fellow Member Nacsa thinks that this is not in the Criminal Code, that stealing is a prison sentence, then I suggest you look over it again. [[19.30]] They don't think there's gonna be any punishment for this. They think they can get away with this forever! [[Gábor Bányai: Shame on you!]] Once again, we have some bad news. For the country, we're going to recover these stolen thousands of billions, and the new government is going to spend it on what it's going to spend on: people's livelihoods. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Csaba Czegledy!]] the eradication of poverty, the restoration of health in ruins, education. In English: that this country and the Hungarian people finally get what they deserve, happiness, well-being, clean public life, and not this vile government that you are doing. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Just like before 2010!]] Thank you. [[Gábor Bányai: Do you believe what you just said? Shame on you. A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-11-18-238	Dear House, This brings us to the end of the keynote speeches. It is now possible for the first independent Member to speak; I give the floor to Mrs Dóra Dúró. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-18-239	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The question arose several times as to why there should be evidence in the Fundamental Law that it would be a distraction. But the thing is, the problem is, we've come to the point where they have to be written down in the Fundamental Law, there's no fairy tale. The problem is, yes, there are some obviouss that we never thought anyone would question or try to question, such evidences, now more and more... [[Lőrinc Nacsa to the leaving Szabó Timea: He doesn't care about the debate! Dialogue! Gábor Bányai: Dialogue!]] More and more people are questioning such evidence from the Balliberal opposition. So, on the one hand, they say that this should not be written, and on the other hand they say that this is hateful to describe, that it is homophobic to describe, and I try to quote Mr Bellozó literally that they are attacking a minority who cannot defend themselves. Ladies and gentlemen, That this would be a minority that could not defend itself, rather than reject it in the strongest possible way, but that the opposite is just true. It is a minority that, in public life, is driven by aggression unlike anyone else, and now also towards our children. The storybook that has been published is one of the most eloquent examples of this, and the scam they are trying to make people believe in this is quite outrageous. It's not that I want to be sensitive to children. It is no coincidence that the period between 3 and 6 years of age has been chosen when children can be best influenced and controlled on such issues. They're not sensitive, they're manipulated and they want to control them. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]] Anyone who says that a fairy tale book is harmless in raising children is lying! Parents and educators have to choose completely consciously the stories they put in front of the children, which they read to them, because they form them. And the transcription of the tales is also an attack on Hungarian culture. Let us be clear: Hungarian folk tales are not for nothing what they are! There are heroes in it for a reason, there are stories in it for a reason, there are values in it for a reason, and it's not part of the fact that the prince is a homosexual, and it's not part of the fact that a four-year-old kid is the protagonist who wants to have sex-change surgery on himself. This is also an attack on Hungarian culture, and it is also a lie! That's why you're trying to make the kids sensitive, not grandmothers? It's interesting, somehow none of these organizations remember how homophobic grandmothers are, because they know very, very well that education has an important role to play. In the case of homosexuality, the existence of a genetic background is not destiny, but only an increased tendency, but environmental effects can influence its expression. That's why you're being so aggressive about this amazing lobby. There is no such event in Hungary as the so-called Budapest Pride, which would be supported by so many embassies. No! There is so much oppression in Hungary that embassies consider the so-called Budapest Pride to be the most important event in Hungary! The fact that most people stand for this is an insult to me as a Hungarian person. If Hungarian embassies believe that there is no other more important event in the life of Hungarians, it is an insult! But I can't tell you any other event with so many CEOs with names and faces. In addition to the deviant parade of homosexuals, company leaders in Hungary are lining up, and they are talking about it, and Congressman Bellozó is talking about the fact that they cannot defend themselves. When I shredded this storybook, in three days I received 50,000 messages from the poor who couldn't protect themselves. While I was teaching my seven-year-old "The Skinny" shoes, I got 3,000 messages while teaching a poem to my kid because the poor can't protect themselves. They're lying about what's going on in Hungary! And why did you have to grind up this storybook? I often get this question, too, and Mr Arató was also kind enough, and now he has mentioned it again. On the one hand, the book itself is a medium, paper and printing ink, the value of which is given by its contents. They used to burn books because it was an important medium, almost the most important medium. Today, more important media are electronically appearing surfaces, such as Facebook entries, which are grinded daily against the Hungarian Movement by the censorship machine that operates under Zuckerberg's leadership and tries to shape the whole world in its own image by censoring national Christian content worldwide. Interestingly, it doesn't hurt the Balliberal side that this censorship reaches such an extent, for example, of the Hungarian Movement, that our party's page has disappeared from Facebook. But we also received a ban on comments about who cares about the opinion of Momentum and the EU? If we question that, if we write this down, there will be a 30-day ban on Facebook. But also for our event poster, on which we wrote that we welcome everyone in Mohács, where we are preparing a surprise guest. I don't know what the hate enmity was about. But that doesn't bother anyone that this comment is being shredded, this entry is being removed from Facebook, showing again the lack of credibility and the amazing double standards. By the way, in the 1956 Revolution, the revolutionaries carried the communist propaganda books out onto the street, threw them in a huge pile and set them on fire. They lit it! These books proclaimed an ideology responsible for the death of a hundred million people! Let us not pretend that this instrument is only linked to inconclusive dictatorships that everyone condemns in Hungary! Fidesz also had to take this radical action because of its duality. Last year, I presented a resolution proposal to limit homosexual propaganda activities in schools and kindergartens, and that if someone would like to give a lecture in schools in general on sexual education, they would need a ministerial license to go through a professional filter. There is, by the way, such regulation regarding drug use in Hungary. Obviously, drugs cannot be promoted in schools either, so if you want to talk about drugs to young people in school, some kind of NGO, you have to accredit his program in the ministry first. I wanted the same thing to happen with regard to sexual education. Even the pro-government representatives swept this proposal off the table. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Why have you swept him down?]] Now that this grinding has taken place and so much social outrage has developed, they are willing to amend the Fundamental Law. [[19.40]] But their duality is shown not only by this, but also by what an unsuspecting mother called my attention to after the scraping of books, namely that the Soros Foundation is not only supporting a fairy tale book containing homosexual propaganda. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: The government too!]] It's the National Cultural Fund. Or everyone else can be called the book "The Tough Owl and the Third Owl" was supported by the National Cultural Fund. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oops!]] It says here that her main character is an owl born to be a boy, but she's glad she doesn't have to live like a boy. One of the kids at school tells me he's got two moms. The teacher's reaction to this is: but great, very good, because everyone has different families and we accept each other. But there is also a chapter on how to take the migrant girl into the class, not like this, but there is also a chapter on this, and this black-skinned migrant and black-skinned Sanyika Lakatos in Hungary, when they talk about how to treat someone who is mocked by their skin color, Sanyika Lakatos says that when they mock him, I quote the cartoon book: I punch them in the face! And this came out with the support of the National Cultural Fund. So what you're doing is absolutely amazing. And if you would say that you didn't know that this content was on the one hand, then on the other hand, I have to say that Zsófia Bán wrote this book, who gave a speech at the opening ceremony of Pride 2013. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Soros!]] He took care of the traditional family model there, and he himself admitted that he had been living with another woman for 20 years as a woman. And the National Cultural Fund supports his homosexual propaganda book with Hungarian taxpayers' money. Shame! It's a shame that this can happen. [[Dr. László Keresztes Lóránt: That's right!]] Mr harvesto also spoke about and mocked the fact that Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union In the century, motherhood as a profession should be the sole role of a woman. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes on the notary's pulpit.]] I think that it is a very big mistake to do this; it is also a very big mistake to judge if there is a party or if there is a political community that would encourage women to do so. According to a survey by the Hungarian Economics Society in Hungary, 25 percent of Hungarian youths say that if they could afford it, they would live exclusively for their family. Obviously, this is primarily about women, and it is about mothers, so it is a role of the 21st century. In the century, thank God, among Hungarian women, which many would like to choose. And if you criticize this or criticize the incentives that want to make it possible, it's a mistake, and it's even offensive to mothers anyway. We should not allow a mother who is at home with her children and raises them as a second - class citizen, because the value that she does with her work every day is honorable. And every mother who has a child education deserves respect from each political side. And it's very important that they feel that way. Because, as Zoltán Kodály said, the best for children is just as good. Let's stick to this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the independent benches.]]
u2020-11-18-240	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! It is now up to the voice of the minority advocate invited by the committee representing the nationalities. I give the floor to Mrs Brigitta Szuperák, a Ukrainian minority speaker, who presents the first sentence of her speech in her ethnic language, then translates them into Hungarian, and probably finishes her speech in her ethnic language. Here you are, Madam Speaker, the floor is yours.
u2020-11-18-241	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Шановний пане Голово! ШановнΓ депутати, представники нацΓональних меншин! ШановнΓ ДержавнΓ Збори! Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the floor, Dear House, At the meeting of the Committee of Nationalities of Hungary on 16 November 2020, the Parliament discussed the draft of the ninth amendment of the Fundamental Law. The committee initiated the discussion of the bill as a minority item because the Fundamental Law is a general basis of the domestic legal order, which includes, on the one hand, all the rights and obligations applicable to all Hungarian citizens, and, on the other hand, this is the most important aspect of our view, both the National Creed and the Act XXIX. This article deals in detail with the rights of nationalities living in Hungary. Further legislation, such as the National Law on the Rights of National Nations, the National Public Education Act, the Voters Act, and now the Civil Code, which is also published in the amendments initiatives before this House, were drawn up. According to the National Creed, nationalities are part of the Hungarian political community and state-creating factors. Hungary undertakes, among other things, to maintain and protect the language and culture of Hungarian ethnicities. CHAPTER XXIX Article 4 contains fundamental rights of nationality. These are the following: all Hungarian citizens belonging to a nationality have the right to freely undertake and preserve their identity. Nationalities living in Hungary have the right to use their mother tongue, to use their own language and community names, to cultivate their own culture and to teach in their native language. Nationalities living in Hungary can create local and national self-governments. Detailed rules on the rights of nationalities living in Hungary, nationalities and conditions for recognition as nationalities, and rules for the election of local and national minority self-governments are laid down by a fundamental law. The fundamental law may make recognition as a nationality subject to a fixed period of nationality and to the initiative of a certain number of persons claiming to belong to that nationality. On the last day of the summer session, the aforementioned fundamental law, containing a detailed breakdown of nationality rights, amended the 2011 CLXXIX on the rights of nationalities. Law. The Committee believes that the Fundamental Law and the Fundamental Nationality Act provide a solid legal basis for our nationality. In preparation for the amendment of the national minority law during the last part-session, it was considered that at first glance, a law may have the same content as it is at that time, but, as we look at in more detail, it turns out that there is a need to make smaller or bigger changes. This is all the more so, because, on the one hand, we know that the legislation is made up of people and that changing circumstances often bring about events that have not been known before, and they may require an amendment of legislation. Dear House, In today's debate on the amendment of the Fundamental Law, I highlight the references of the Fundamental Law to Christian culture. Historical churches play a key role in preserving and perpetuating ethnic identity and culture. As a member of the national church of several national ethnic communities, you can obtain native language education, and thanks to church records, you can maintain a relationship between certain ethnic groups living in different parts of the country. [[19.50]] Christian cultural ties determine the daily lives of these communities. In view of the fact that our communities live predominantly in rural small settlements, in local public life church churches and religious denominations play an irreplaceable role, which are involved in the education and education of our children. They are active in the cultural life of our settlements, and they help greatly and participate in the social care of our families. That is why I think it is right, on the basis of what has been said above, to record the existence and survival of Christian roots in the Fundamental Law. The intention to amend the bill before us contains detailed rules on the publication, maintenance and termination of the special legal order. In our view, these clarifications are justified and acceptable in today's unprecedented pandemic situation. As a member of the Committee of Nationalities in Hungary, we will monitor closely today and in the future, so that, where appropriate, the introduction of a special legal order does not prejudice the rights of those belonging to nationalities. At the same time, it is important to note that, as a result of the special legal order, distance learning introduced in the spring session has resulted in the fact that people living in the poorest settlements could hardly, sometimes at all, participate in online education. We consider it important to mention in the general debate on this bill that, should it be necessary to organise distance education in a full public education system again, more attention should be paid to ensuring that the educational and educational rights of the most disadvantaged young people are not violated. With regard to the support of nationalities in Hungary, we consider it necessary to introduce additional rules on the use of budgetary support by introducing a special legal order, since, in addition to the current legislation, the national authorities cannot use the State aid received for its operation for the protection of the special legal order, which would be necessary. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The Committee of Nationalities of Hungary is the T/13647. The proposed draft law on the ninth amendment to the Fundamental Law of Hungary is proposed for adoption. Thank you very much for your attention. Дякуņза увагу! [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-18-242	Thank you very much, Madam Speaker. It is now possible, ladies and gentlemen, to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to our fellow Member, Gergely Arató, the notary of the Parliament. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-243	Congresswoman Dóra Dúró resented my negative appreciation for a comment from the last century, or I can now say that it was two centuries before that, that it was only natural for a woman to be a mother and only a family. Do you know, Congresswoman, in which debate did this comment come out? The one about women getting suffrage. If this view had been put in place, which you would have liked so much, that women's work was exclusively about motherhood and raising children, then, let alone you couldn't sit here in this Parliament, but you couldn't vote yet. For example, if a part of society at an age thinks something is natural, it may not be right. That's all I wanted to say. By the way, motherhood is a great, wonderful task, and I admire mothers, but, you know, Congresswoman, most of the mothers don't support their family and children on a salary, so she needs a lot more concrete help beyond the nice words. But this is not the subject of this debate, and I am not going to continue in this direction. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-18-244	Thank you very much, Congressman. We have a two-minute speech from Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-245	Thank you, Mr. President. I understood Mr Arató's speech exactly, but on the one hand, the introduction of women's voting rights is rather anachronistic, since at this age no one has questioned it in this debate nor in Hungary in the last thirty years. So that's not a good example. You can't parallel it with biological abilities, because unfortunately, biological abilities are being questioned by your friends of principle. But now also the European Union, to whom you are so keen to run, is the most important one, since there, in the European Commission, the Commissioner for Equality has already initiated to link access to the Pandemic Recovery Fund to LGBTQ rights. So the fact that someone is really dealing with it at this level, and to this extent, LGBTQ can lobby for itself and who knows how many letters are behind it to enforce their interests is quite amazing. Yeah, the XXI. I maintain that it is possible to think that a mother should only care for her children if that is what she wants. This is what I have referred to as the fact that in Hungarian society there are still many, a demonstrable percentage, of the community who wishes to be only a mother. I think it is a serious problem, too, and I consider it one of the cornerstones of the demographic situation in Hungary to be unable to do so, otherwise, without any financial means. By the way, if you've been personal with me about the salary of your representatives, I would add that there are a lot of ladies in this Parliament who also receive a salary from their representatives and do not raise children. So, on the one hand, I would like to reject this personalization. On the other hand, if you look at the region in which most of the children are born, you will see that most children are born in the poorest regions in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-18-246	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would also like to address Mr Gábor Bányai from the Fidesz Group for a two-minute speech. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-11-18-247	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We always meet László Keresztes in the debates when he attacks certain major projects on a regular basis and obliges the government to stop. First of all, the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, I will inform you now for the 50th time. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: I'll say it myself!]] This is not covered by the Hungarian budget, only 15 percent of all that we have to bear at the moment. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Two hundred billion!]] It's based on a credit agreement, only from a source that can be used for this purpose. I just want you to understand that this has to be repaid in the next ten, twenty years. That's part of it. Who's building it is another important issue you're arguing about, but it's not the focus issue. It's a good project that, believe it or not, is good for the country. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: He will return in two hundred and forty years!]] I'd like to give you some basic information about the VAT cuts. Let's cut the VAT to 5%, okay, but, you know, there's one thing you gotta see: traders can't be influenced. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Yes, you can!]] In order not to add the net price to the gross price. Already, what we have lost will not come back in life, and the consumer will never get the cheaper food in life that you want to make cheaper by reducing VAT. The other is that Congressman Arató accused us of homophobia and racism. Please, everyone can ruin their lives any way you want, and everyone can pick a partner for themselves any way you want. We say only one thing: we have to say what is natural, what is already human, what is God-ordered human is not a custom, but a question of fact is that the mother is a woman, and the father is a man. We don't want to let this get upset, we don't want to be forced to do something we don't want because we know it's not natural, it's unnatural. What the congresswoman had done earlier, I would like to put my hat on before the grinding, although unfortunately, the popularity of that book has become high. There is one thing to see: it is also right that mothers should be valued, which has a tradition in this country, because all of us who are here probably respect our mother, and this is a general situation in Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-11-18-248	Thank you very much, Congressman. Another two-minute speech will be followed by László Lóránt Keresztes, Head of Group, from the LMP. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-249	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Congressman Banya spoke to me, and I think it is appropriate to answer. Indeed, many times I have thrown the thousand billion-dollar spending of the Budapest-Belgrád railway project into your eyes, as I believe that this is a betrayal of Hungarian national interests. Along with everything, with interest, Congressman, this will cost about a thousand billion forints. [[20.00]] I would very much ask you to be clear, Congressman, when you speak in Parliament. He says it's a loan that can be drawn for this purpose under a credit agreement. Indeed, it is a Chinese loan that the Hungarian people will have to repay. You took nearly a thousand billion forints out of the pockets of the Hungarian people, and this year, during a severe epidemic and an economic crisis, this project has been accelerated by you and all connecting documents have been encrypted. Honourable Congressman, Don't think if you say it's a good project, that's enough. No! Why? If you think it's a good project, why didn't you put the documents that lay the foundation on the table? Does it even have any commitment from the Chinese party that if this project is built and, let's say, obviously not only built to the border, but that will be a railway line that will, say, reach the port of Pyreus in this way, then who will use it, will use it? We couldn't even get an answer to that. I don't know, you've seen documents, but your fellow Members pushed the button when this project was encrypted without being able to produce any such documents and couldn't give you any information you might have seen in them. I can tell you that I asked for it, and I didn't get those documents. Only this year and next year, you will spend so much money on this Budapest-Belgrád railway project, which, according to your calculations, could create 175 thousand new jobs. I think that this in itself was a decision that seriously insults national interests, but it is a serious mistake on your part, a serious crime, that this was done in such a situation, during an epidemic, in the midst of a deep economic crisis. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-11-18-250	Thank you very much. Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély is next, also for a two-minute speech. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-251	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In my proper speech, I do not want to respond to Dóra Dúró, two minutes is exactly what he said. I would like to bring up two stories, Hungarian folk tales, and I would not like to open up debates in fairy tales. The princess won on the pig is about the fact that for a pig, the princess takes off more and more clothes, and at the third pig, she takes off all the clothes. The other from Jávorfa is a flute, where there are three sisters, the king has three daughters, they go to pick strawberries in the woods, and for which the youngest girl fills the basket, and the other two are lazy, no... so at the suggestion of the oldest girl, the two older girls beat her youngest sister to death, and then bury her in the woods, and then they go home. So, my dear fellow Member, I tell you, I don't want to open up arguments in fairy tales, because I have it, and I read it to the children, we know it. But please, look at it real and stand up and tell me the truth by telling me what one of the stories is about. We know what fairy tales are all about. [[Interviews from Fidesz: About What?]] The children's imagination, everyone knows that, you can decide whether a fairy tale is good or not, but let's not argue, and please stop that. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-11-18-252	Thank you, Congresswoman. Unfortunately, I can't speak to Gábor Bányai now either, because the two-minute genre is a limited genre, and only one representative from one faction can speak, so we exhausted it, so let's move on. I would like to say to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély that there is a free opinion in Parliament after all, so that anyone can say what he has said. I allowed you, of course, to tell me what you wanted to tell me. Mr István Hollik of the KDNP Group is coming to a proper speech. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to start with some good news. I can do little of this to the end of today's debate, but it is good news, however, that the amendment of the basic law on special legal orders, if I understand correctly, is in agreement with the left, because there is no substantive criticism. That's finally good news. I'm happy for you. But here, unfortunately, the list of good news can be completed, and if you will allow me, before I go to the bill specifically, to the amendment of the basic law, I would like to reflect in a few words on what has been said in order. Better, Congressman Szilágyi. If I understood your sentimental remarks correctly, I was able to discover an element of substance in this, which raises the criticism of the amendment to the basic law that the state is included in the part on public money, but in the justification, the municipality, and you believe that this is a mistake, and it is not clear. I suggest, Congressman, that you read the preamble to the municipal law, and then everything becomes clear to you, but I will read it to you as a help. The local authorities contribute to the achievement of the State objectives set out in the Fundamental Law as part of a single public organisation system. So when we talk about the state, this interpretation has been given in the municipal law instead of it and it has been there for years, then, of course, we include the municipalities in it, so they do not need to be named separately. [[György Szilágyi: You didn't listen enough! Public finances!]] I'm gonna talk to you about that, so you can relax. In the voice of the MSZP Group, I would like to live in a country and a world where there is evidence that a father is a man and a mother is a woman, and that does not have to be legal or, let me say, a guarantee on a statutory level, but unfortunately, the realization of all of us is that these are not the times we live in. I am deeply sorry that the best evidence for this was provided by our MSZP fellow Member, Tamás Harangozó, who said that the fundamental law amendment that concerns the father's male and mother's female is homophobic, racist and exclusional. Well, that's the problem, and that's why we have to write it in the Fundamental Law, because it's completely ridiculous for someone to say such a fundamental truth, and then a lefty says it's homophobic and racist. He also spoke, and this is when one remembers that many conservatives say that a revolution of normality is needed against abnormality. In the case of such comments, one can agree deeply with these conservative thinkers, who think so. Although Mr Bellozó's substantial contribution to the public money was not, he only gave the mood and talked about thefts, let me remind you all of one thing. The socialist government was able to do the bravure that, when the European economy played very well between 2002 and the outbreak of the global economic crisis, Hungary alone was able to perform the bravura that it achieved a third of the economic growth that the European Union's average achieved as a catching-up Central European country. In English: The Gyurcsánys have stolen so much money in Hungary, your allies, my esteemed colleague, have stolen so much money [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't worry! We're not gonna be like you. We'll be gentlemen!]] About Hungary, that while the rich countries developed on average 3 percent, Hungarian GDP could be 1 percent. In English, we did not approach the rich countries, but we moved away from them, all because your allies were shoveling money out of Hungary in so many ways. So much for public money, by the way. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: The procedure has been initiated. Z. Kárpát, Dániel: There was accountability! Good job, guys. Oh, no. Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] There are limits to the rule of law, honourable Member, and, if possible, you should not forget this either, although I see that sometimes you cannot comply with this condition, and you are threatened with all kinds of accountability here in the Hungarian Parliament. [[Z. Kárpát, Daniel: I only called to account, I did not threaten!]] Gergely Arató spoke on behalf of the DK Group. Here's a comment that I can, surprisingly, agree with. He looked at us, Fidesz, KDNP representatives, and told them to calm down, that Christianity would survive. In this, thank God, we agree with him, but this is encouraging for us, and that is why we work for Christian culture to survive us. However, this is sad news for DK, because they are working together with György Soros and those who claim to be an open society, working on Europe's transcending Christian culture, Europe giving up its Christian roots, and Europe, the European Member States, are giving up their national sovereignty. [[20.10]] So this is sad for them in this regard, but it is a joy for us. [[Intercoms from opposition lines.]] In response to the leader of the LMP faction, he said he ended his speech by saying that he was a Christian, we can always count on him to protect the national interest. I am very pleased to hear that, Mr. Fraction Manager, and I do not want to question your commitment to this. However, if so, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as a Christian, you belong to an alliance that promotes European united states that want to go beyond national traditions. [[Dr. László Keresztes, Lóránt is intruding.]] He wants to eliminate popular sovereignty. He belongs to an alliance, there is a far-left member who constantly attacks the church to which you belong, and he is a member of an alliance who is forced to introduce gay marriage in Hungary. [[Intercoms from opposition lines. The president's ringing the bell.]] I understand, by the way, that there are reasonable compromises in politics, but I think that as a Christian, this compromise is too expensive for you. That's what I'd like to draw your attention to. I missed it undeservingly, to be more precise, not in order, so I missed the leader of the dialogue faction, whose parliamentary dialogue to come in here, tells his lies, and then takes his tent, and immediately leaves Parliament. This is the dialogue culture on the left, so be it, we have no problem with that. At the same time, in his absence, I would like to draw the attention of Szabó Timea and ask him once again to end the death campaign. He got up on this pulpit again and started scaring me and spreading lies. It's not the first time you've started, it's not the first time you've started. You were all here when you stood up here and said that most people in the world die here in Hungary in the corona virus. That's the lie he was able to tell. By the way, there was a social welfare committee meeting the day before yesterday, and here is what Szabó Timea said: the number of deaths per day is rising dramatically. That's why I'm telling you to stop spreading lies. I understand, I'm very sorry, but I understand it's in the interest of the left to make things worse, and it looks like he's rooting for the virus, but let's not get carried away from reality. Every day, we all probably wake up to look at the statistics, and the loss of all human lives is terrible and irreplaceable, but with a drastic increase in the number of daily deaths over the past few days, please, no one should say, because it's a lousy mood and a lie! You see, every day, the operational tribe makes public the number of deaths, and we see it stagnating, by the way. I would like to draw the Member's attention to one more thing: this is a recurring, very old lie on the left, trying to suggest that those raising their children in a partnership do not see Fidesz-KDNP as a family or the laws we have adopted. This was repeated again by Szabó Timea of the Pulpit. For the thousandth time, we refuse to read the first passages of the Family Protection Act, in which it is quite clear that marriage and linear kinship are the basis of the family. So in Hungarian, when a person raises a child, the laws consider it a family. So in this respect too, stop lying to Szabó Timea! Among his other lies about public funds, he criticized the fact that the Hungarian government provided MOL shares for talent management and universities. Interesting point, but I would like to point out to all left-wing representatives that the Gyurcsány government has played the MOL shares for Russians, and we are using it to provide talent and to develop universities. [[Constant intervention from the opposition benches.]] Everyone can decide which is the better goal, the Russians have better control of MOL's share or, by the way, MOL's share is more used to provide talent and to develop universities. With regard to public funds, there was another criticism of the content, which was raised not only by Jobbik's representatives, but also by others. This is said to mean that income or money that, for example, will never reach the state in the form of corporate income tax discounts, is public money, and we want to hide it. I just want to let you know that there are some people here who have children, and I guess you'll be taking advantage of the family tax relief. That's exactly the type of discount. Then you say that if the Tao grant is public money and it has to be transparent so that the state has nothing to do with it, because it will give up this revenue, so it will never become state revenue. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] So once again, it will not be included in the state budget, so it is not state revenue. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian constantly intervenes.]] So, if I understand correctly, you're saying that with regard to family tax relief, [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] If the state gives up that income, then you think that the income that will remain with your families, who are raising children, is public money, and you have to account for the amount of 10, 20, 30 thousand forints tax relief, the family tax allowance, you buy a gallon of milk and bread. You guys feel that nonsense, don't you? [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] So I understand this contention argument, but you have not thought this through properly. [[Intercoms from Jobbik.- The president's ringing.]] As far as the specific amendments are concerned, I believe that unfortunately this debate, as I have already mentioned, confirms to us that there are some fundamentals that must be included in the Fundamental Law. I, too, believe that the past period is evidence that it is necessary to guarantee that the child's birth sex is properly raised, because there are efforts to make people insecure and disturbed. That is why it has a place in the Fundamental Law, and I would just like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that in the future we must also work on, by the way, to transpose this basic law into a lower level of legislation and to enforce this principle. As regards the amendment to the basic law on the protection of universities, it is quite clear that public-service trust foundations are the most important pillars of renewable higher education and talent management that have undergone a change of model and that these trust foundations can operate in a long-term, predictable manner, independently of the state, in a stable manner. That's what basic law protection is for. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks.]] I think that the real debate is not about the need for these trust foundations to have basic law protection, but about whether or not these model changes are necessary. I think it's definitely [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I know we need it, but I'll do it later. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-254	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker from the Jobbik Group is Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-255	Mr President, Dear House, The one-time opposition representative is prepared to write a draft for his little text, and then the Fidesz-KDNP comes along and overwrites it. I would like to draw my colleague Hollik's attention to something very seriously. If you continue this disgusting, hideous, stomach-stricken campaign with such statements that the opposition is rooting for the virus, you will create a civil war situation in Hungary, and there will be consequences. You were a communications director, spokesperson for a faction, communication, if you will. You know very well that you're lying to me with the disgustingness of your stomach. He can come in here, lie to his face. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz, including István Hollik, pointing to the speaker's stand: Szabó Timea said!]] all of Hungary and all the voters. [[István Hollik intervenes.]] Your employers may require that of you. It's still disgusting, unmanly, and I'm asking you to stop, because it's a lunatic who thinks that anyone in this country is rooting for the virus and cheering for people to die. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] Disgusting, insane thought, stop it! [[20.20]] Just as disgusting is the death campaign you're pursuing, and please stop it when you list in your production reports how many people died in which country [[István Hollik: Facts!]] And by setting up a ranking, they are trying to make it look like Hungary is performing better in any way in quotes in this area, but I am interested in the Hungarian victims, fellow Members, and that they could have prepared this summer to avoid the current cataclysm. I would still like to help you in this regard, because I am not a fan, but they are constantly throwing down political nuclear bombs to opposition parties that unfortunately exclude national consensus on this issue. Me and the faction behind me would like to help you with that, but against such a disgusting, stomach-stricken death campaign, it's conceptually impossible. And what I have tried to do is to put together a rapist amendment to the basic theme of my speech about public funds, and it is quite amazing that, hiding behind the traditional family model, I would like to speed up the scheming of public funds. I want to make something clear. As Vice-President of the Conservative and your right-wing opposition, as a multi-child family father, I will always defend the traditional family model, and in all respects, if families need to be protected from your evictions, or from the amazing sociocultural disaster and social cataclysms that have emerged in Hungary during your regency, I will always be there for the families. But I would also like to say that if you submit a proposal that protects Hungarian families, I will be able to vote in favour of them, even in spite of the current political climate and atmosphere. But when it comes to the theft of public funds, I'll be your unprovoked enemy and stay. That's the position of the normal, quiet majority. We represent this as a national people's party here in Parliament, which wants to achieve prosperity for everyone, despite your lies and disgusting campaigns. I would like to say that what they are doing with the concept of public money in the Fundamental Law, I understand that it partly comes from their fear, because they know very well that they have done things within the Hungarian national economy over a decade that are conceptually, economically and often legally indefensible. The fact is that the amendment that is now being made by redefining the concept of public money would, in effect, narrow down the concept of public money and would make it impossible to control a number of amounts previously used in the category of public money. And we have to say, when public-interest trust funds with a public service mission would require that only two thirds of their affairs be disturbed, then it is worth going back to another debate, where we will immediately find out how a thousand billion-dollar wealth has been transferred to these foundations. They are replayed by certain provisions of the National Property Act that will no longer apply to them. So far, they have been referring to existing state and national assets, and they will not thereafter. Let us see what the three main obligations that have been given so far will not be given from now on! On the one hand, an obligation to provide information on how to deal with that state wealth, what will be the fate of it? Is it enhanced or damaged? Secondly, a right of withdrawal is granted for all national assets. If the receiver doesn't comply with the terms of the contract, let's say he's running corruption channels with them, so far, the devoted, so the state or the insurance company could have said, "Friends, it's all back!" In integram restitutio, return the property, and if it's missing, you'll go to prison, obviously at the end of a fair rule of law procedure. By the fact that this pass of the National Property Act no longer applies to a mass of assets outsourced to the foundations, it will no longer be possible to do so on paper. You know that very well. That's why they want the Janichars, good friends, to outsource this wealth every few billion, and they expect that it will only be possible to disrupt it by a two-thirds majority. The bad news is, it's not true. It's not a threat, it's a simple legal issue. There will be a legal opportunity for a new opposition government to check the fate of this wealth in Hungary and, if it experiences any abuse, to intervene; obviously, in a fair legal framework, not in a bloody way, but in a tough way, out of the law. That's what we're seeing with the Tao money. I am very sorry for my fellow Member Hollik, but we have also had fruitful debates, I am sure, at Commission level. But when we go down to economics, for the first hours of the first semester, and we fail to complete the puzzle, I truly feel sorry for you. As regards the Tao: Compared to the family tax discount, it is not only a professional blooper, but it is quite amazing, because the amount of family tax benefits is listed here in the production report three times a week and counted into the amount of family support. They're gonna tell you that there's 1,000 plus 2,000 billion in it. They also count the amount of family allowances and the pension allowance for the women. There is no European country, there is not a single budget that counts pension amounts for family support, only yours! There's no other one, okay? They could create this unorthodox universe, they refer to it, and now they say it's not public money, but it's in the production report. Tao is a public money, and this system must be reviewed, and we see that... let us look at the proportions of what Hungary you have brought together? Let's see what they do to families. Last year's budget: more than 4,000 billion in VAT revenue, right? This is typically paid by Hungarian families and citizens on overpriced products: 27 percent basic food VAT on the next 90 percent of the product range; 27 percent VAT on children's education articles as a whole; 4000 billion are collected on Hungarian people, right? Personal income tax: more than 2,000 billion are collected on Hungarians; there is no debate between us, is there? Let's look at the corporate tax on what companies pay. Oops! They were expecting 390 billion, 303 billion. Compared to 4,000 billion and 2,000 billion, we have a tiny 300 billion. This is what companies pay for, because you, when the corporate tax rate was modified, gave Hungarian micro-enterprises a 1 percent discount and a very large percentage discount for multinationals, so again, the fake national, false-right-wing government spoiled multi-company companies instead of concluding a strategic contract with Hungarian micro-, small-, medium-sized enterprises. 300 billion forints! On the other hand, the Tao system was worth HUF 240 billion during the period considered. So the amount of money equal to all multi-payments has been passed through these channels, while the Hungarian people have paid ten to twenty times the amount of money from their pockets in order to provide funds for your cicoma investments and pyramid constructions This is your Hungary! National? On the right? Oh, come on. They are giving this country access to international networks, while pursuing a pure neoliberal economic and family policy. You alone evicted more than ten thousand people in Hungary. There is no other government whose name could be associated with such a social and social disaster! They can't show you a government like this for decades. Shame, shame! In addition to your accomplice! And now you're going to come here with this fundamental law amendment? Back to redefining public money. It is quite amazing that, in the case of foundations managing these assets, 1000 billion will be played largely during this government cycle and these years. It's quite amazing that they think they can do this without consequences. And the new definition of public money derives from itself the new definition of public wealth, including the state's national wealth, because if these national assets are played out by you and channeled out, then obviously now I understand why the elements of the missing national wealth inventory are gradually falling, too, they are going to dwindle. By deciding by a fundamental law on the termination, establishment and operation of public trust funds, it is obviously your preconception that, although there is a chance that they will lose the 2022 election, they believe that everyone you have appointed will remain in place for four, six, eight, nine years. They think that the leaders of the foundations can stay there, that the money they've played can stay there, and then they'll somehow overthrow a new government. Our bad news is we're not gonna make it. And while we're at the public money point, you may remember that my team camp, Camp Kispest, in the pyramid on the High Road, was chanting this, yes, it has lost its public money character, because you questioned whether it was public money or not, even in the money that was channeled to the National Bank of Hungary. After a huge surplus of 1000 billion in the amount of the Hungarian National Bank was created during the foreign exchange loan conversion, the foreign exchange lenders' looting, Germany is able to pay this surplus to the German budget, not in an optional way, but in a mandatory way. Why has Hungary not been able to see the current profits of the Hungarian National Bank here, in the budget, and let's say that we can support the broken population? The fact is that they did not succeed, and the MNB transferred some HUF 260 billion to its foundations. This money was thus out of the government's sight, and it was deigned to declare that it had also lost its common sense of money. So your regency is followed by the loss of tens of thousands of homes, the downfall of hundreds of thousands of poor people, and the continuous outflow of public money of a thousand billion-dollar scale. [[20.30]] And to mention one more brutal thing: in the meantime, the fake national, fake right-wing government is going out from behind this national mask to lobby in Brussels. Why? For Hungarian micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises? For the sake of foreign exchange credentials against banks? Oh, no, because they signed a EBRD pact there. February 2015, you are on the government's website in English. He hasn't opened it since then, it's the wow, but it's a big national government. Well, how is that, please? They went out to Brussels to lobby at the highest level so that they could give even more public money to large companies. We're getting back to public money again. They were able to go to war with the whole world, but they went outside to give support to domestic investments with a threshold of more than EUR 800,000. It's big companies. And how you behave to these big corporations shows how you act with the Audi. A contract has now been signed with them, and this contract is about two billion HUF state aid, with which Viktor Orbán and his team will pay for the total loss of the Hungarian subsidiary due to its failure due to the virus. Your total loss. Show me a Hungarian medium-sized enterprise, show me Hungarian small businesses who have received their losses from the entire quarantine without knocking. They can't show you anything like that. This is national government, please? Is this patriot economic policy? There's an amazing flow diagram of 30 years of history in a dump behind us. And what we see is that although they are unconditionally serving the multi-enterprises involved and mentioned, the banking system, they are not even able to authentically play their alleged national role after the change of position in Hungary. The settlement bond business, my fellow Members, and I will talk about a previous amendment to the basic law, whose name is it linked to? Is there any other government in Hungary that sold the hall of our citizenship as a market kofa for money? [[Antal Csárdi: Mmm!]] Tell me why this was necessary. He's paying for it now, in these years the Hungarian budget! In the middle of the epidemiological emergency, the Hungarian taxpayers will pay back the interest and the price of these bonds. Not you, the Hungarian taxpayers! When you can't make up for lost wages because of that. You have not only reached the point of installing foreign workers in Hungary in the order of hundreds of thousands, but you are the only government that is giving a lecture on the CSOK for residents. How is that, please? Is this national government, Mr. Secretary of State? You are hosting lectures on the admission possibilities of the CSOK. Was there any other government like this in Hungary? No, it wasn't. I would therefore ask you not to start the public money-sharing behind the fundamental law amendment, because there are plenty of legal options that allow these processes to be undone; and I would like to protect you from committing crimes by channeling public money to a thousand billion-dollar scale. They can't do that without consequences. And I think you can see that this has gone beyond the target, that it cannot be done with the Hungarian taxpayers' money, that you are responsible for this, but we are also responsible for the control, and we will not simply tolerate what you are about to do on the basis of this package. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-18-256	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is up to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély from the MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-257	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, I listened astoundedly to the lead speaker of KDNP, Imre Vejkey and the lead speaker of Fidesz, Mónika Dunai and Minister of the Government, who stormed out of the room very quickly after speaking his monologue. [[István Hollik: Like Szabó Timea!]] serious sentences were made in these speeches. It has been said several times that there are things that need to be said and recorded in the Fundamental Law. Let me tell you a joke. When the Fundamental Law says that the mother is a woman, the father is a man, and that it is necessary to record the unborn sex of the child, then I now realize that in the birthing room, when the child is born, the doctor, when he gives us the child because it is now most often so, then he tells me that it is a boy or a girl. 'Cause otherwise, we might not be able to. That's why we have to put it in the Fundamental Law. [[Gábor Bányai: Funny.]] But it's more serious than that. You are using this issue as a source of hatred, as my fellow Members have already said, to conceal something completely different. Quite something else that is involved in this amendment, or what has been done in the last ten years, or worse, and that has been said by all my fellow Members to distract the public from the current situation. And I also resent it, just like my fellow Member, Daniel Z. Carpathian, when they say that we opposition representatives are rooting for the virus and that here we want to use the news of death, the dead, for anything. Ladies and gentlemen, A citizen can expect you, members of the government, to hear the truth every day. And that doesn't mean anyone wants to play with the patients, the epidemic or how many people died. They just want to know what the truth is. Because they have a right. And they also have the right to know that when they get their next of kin, our loved ones, they know what's going on with him. 'Cause the thing is, today, when someone gets into the hospital, they're so busy with medical staff, doctors, nurses, professionals, they don't have time to pick up the phone, because that's not what they're supposed to do. And at home and the families of the patients are terrified because they don't even get that much information. I'm sorry, the 21st. In the century, it's so that voters and citizens know everything, and you come here and say that the opposition is rooting for the virus, and with these news, we want to achieve anything, and we want to distort reality. [[István Hollik: This is what you do! Paramedic! Dr. Pál Völner: Korózs-kamu! The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr Hollik, you'd better back off a little bit. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Or the Korózs!]] And I listened to you calmly. Although you must believe that when the previous speakers mentioned a lot about the government side, that it was all, Mónika Dunai, Imre Vejkey, with dignity, for the protection of children, for the sake of children, do you know what I expected you to bring here? That by all means they will protect Hungarian children against pedophiles! [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] Where is this sentence in front of this House now that you will protect the Hungarian children, the families, by all means? ! [[Dr. Pál Völner: The Criminal Code. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: A statement from the opposition: We know! The president's ringing the bell.]] Secretary of State, you've been sneaking around for months. You've been sneaking around on this for years. Yesterday was the reorganization of the Equal Treatment Authority because we already lie in everything and amend the laws on justice, where the adoption is restricted in Hungary, and, you know, it was also said here that for the sake of Hungarian children. And then let's also talk about how in the state care system, these children are being taken into care by mothers and fathers. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Or orphans.]] Mothers and fathers. [[György Szilágyi to István Hollik to leave the room: Don't go! We'll answer you! The president's ringing the bell.]] You can answer that, yes, Mr. Secretary. [[György Szilágyi: Don't run away!]]
u2020-11-18-258	Congressman Szilágyi, you will have the opportunity to speak again. Don't ruin it.
u2020-11-18-259	And you're using this fundamental law amendment, these concepts to do much more serious things in the process. For the protection of children, for the sake of children, do you amend the Fundamental Law? And steal the future of Hungarian children? They're stealing it now! They've been stealing public money for ten years! The Hungarian mothers, fathers and children's money. They've been robbing this country for ten years! You think everyone's stupid? That they're gonna swallow this? That it has to be said, because so far... Mr. Secretary, if you ask an elementary school kid today what public money is, you know what he's gonna say? What Viktor Orbán and his gang are stealing is public money. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] The Hungarian child already knows that. You know better than you put it. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Because you're lying!]] And, you know, it's shameful when the epidemic situation is used to modify the Fundamental Law. And was Szabó Timea right, that's gonna cure a patient more? Does that make health protection more effective? Does that make you more of a doctor in our hospitals? Does that make you more of a nurse or nurse in our hospitals? Or more cleaning ladies, cleaning crews? There won't be any more. One thing they'll do is steal more public money. [[20.40]] They're protecting our children and our children's interests! Well, look in the mirror and see what you've done to the education system, the social system. How did they distinguish between children and children? That today the fate of a child is determined by where it is born and by what chance it will have for the future! It is determined and less and less likely to be born into a poor family in a disadvantaged, poor settlement. [[Nacsa Lawrence: No!]] Congressman! [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Oh, Lawrence, you don't know the people!]] Congressman, sometimes, sometimes, at least shut up. [[Gábor Bányai: Freedom of speech!]] Yeah, yeah, maybe some more. And believe me, when you see such legislative changes in the walls of this House, you really think about what's coming. I told you yesterday, we can't imagine, thank God, because we're not like you. What else they might have in mind for the next year and a half about the laws they're going to put in front of this House. [[Dr. Pál Völner: The next thirty.]] Thank God we don't know, but they can surprise us. And then much has already been said, just allow me to begin or finish my speech with a reading. I would like to read some names: Gyula Batthyány painter, the great-grandson of the first Hungarian Prime Minister, Krisztián Benkő literary historian, artist, Hilda Gobbi artist, actress, Katalin Karády actress, artist, Márton Karinthy theatre director, drama director, László Márkus actor, worthy and excellent artist, László Mednyánszky painter and graphic designer, János Pilinszky poet, Ferenc Nopcsa paleontologist, geologist, Rudolf Habsburg Hungarian king. Thank you very much, Mr President, for listening.
u2020-11-18-260	Madam Congresswoman, I am sorry, this should not have been mentioned, because this is part of the right to personalities, and I think it would have been fair if this had not been done. Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm is next. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-261	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, This amendment to the basic law, which lies before us, as my fellow Members have already said, can be divided into three strong parts. One is part of the basic legal integration of the sexes, the second is part of the elimination of public funds and the third is defence, and the new rules on emergency situations and legal order. I do not wish to turn to the third, because I ask the good Lord not to put our country in a position to ever apply these rules, because one thing we know for sure: if the Fidesz-KDNP government were forced to do so, he could only do it so dilettically that we would surely lose that war. The first part: the mother is the woman, the father is the man. You have already said here through Minister Mónika Dunai, and my fellow Member Dóra Dúró has confirmed that the country is in a position or public life is in a position to say this in the Fundamental Law. I think that, thank God, there is no public life in the country in a situation where our society is not in a position to include this natural law in the Fundamental Law. On the one hand, let's start from a legal-dogmatic point of view. What is the purpose of the Fundamental Law? Creating the relevant rules on fundamental rights and obligations. Fundamental rights and obligations. What's the law? The law provides for rules of conduct. I hope that there will be at least one representative in the pro-government benches who will tell us that, according to nature's law, women's and men's existence has been a law and obligation, and since when has it been a rule of conduct? The law of nature is above all else. It's above the law, it's above man's ability to act, so if it's recorded in a Fundamental Law by a pro-government community, do you know what they're doing with it? They humiliate their own society. 20-30 years from now, the next generation will say that there was a stupid society here where basic natural law must be written in the Fundamental Law, that the mother and the man are the father. And it's not because it's legit that the woman is the mother and the man is the father, it's because biology, physiology, creates it that way. It is because of the union of two kinds of sexes, the union of its cells, that the generation of offspring is created. This is independent of who governs Hungary. The moment a female egg is fertilized by a sperm, nature creates the offspring. And I will tell you one very special thing, although you can say, my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, that it takes an act between a woman and a man to meet these two cells, but I will say one very interesting thing: not every cell encounter will result in a successor. And you know what that means? It means that this story is left solely to nature, and it is not the result of human behavior, even if it is created as a result of an act. Because not all acts have the same result. And from now on, if you think that the mother is a woman and the father is a man, because you put her in a Fundamental Law, then you deny the superiority of natural laws. I know, and I understand that you wanted to have a child in a family, whether by adoption, that you have two same-sex parents, then no one could possibly think that you could put a man in the register as a mother or a woman as a father. Now, my honourable fellow Member and Judi Varga, who is not here! Well, then it should have just been written in the birth certificate that it's not possible for Mom to sign up for a woman and it's not possible for Dad to sign up for a man! It's that simple. Because that's a code of conduct. That is already the rule on rights and obligations. That is why I do not understand this proposal. Because you know that this is just a mockery of our society, mocking our legal system, denying the supreme reality of nature. And yes, I'll tell you something very interesting. I agree with the sentence where it says that the child's gender identity must be protected. I agree with him. Because the child was born to a natural being, a girl or a boy, and no one has the right to question his sexuality until he decides for himself when he becomes capable of doing things, that he may not want to live according to his own biological sex. And do you know, fellow Members, when a child will be in such a situation? When genetics are confronted, physiology with the flick of growing up in a woman's body, a man lives in a woman's body, and a woman lives in a man's body. You simply refuse to acknowledge that nature does, whether you like it or not, generate faulty genes. Well, there's a flaw in the gene of a man who's born with one arm! The gene is also flawed by someone whose spiritual abilities are unfortunately not perfect! Well, do you think it's possible that sexuality couldn't be such a genetic disaster that he grows up with some kind of opposite-sex soul? It must be noted that this is true, because this is already defined by science. [[20.50]] I am extremely sorry for the people who are forced to live in this way. I have met such a man; they cannot believe how much suffering, how much suffering has already come to realize what has happened to him, what inhibitions nature has given him, what hardships. Then, when he becomes an adult, yes, he has the right to live as spiritual balance for him must create that way of life. But when you write in Article 3, the Fundamental Law is Article XVI. In Article 1 (1) that children should be provided with values based on Christian culture, then someone will explain this to me once. If a child is born in Hungary as a Hungarian citizen, so that, let's say, his mother is Hindu and his father is Muslim, then let's say that this Hungarian citizen is not the right of religious education created by his own parents? Will you be able to explain that to me? Because as far as I know, there is free religious practice, I thought there was a free choice of ideology, the Fundamental Law guarantees freedom of thought and religion for everyone. Do you like to say, then, how do you think that all children who are to be born in the future should be raised according to values based on Christian culture by parents who are not even Christians? ! And then I'd also like to ask atheism what they think about it. Or does the Fundamental Law not apply to atheists? My fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, think carefully about these questions and give me thorough answers, and give me answers that are also understood by people who, by accident, are Hungarian people who are not Christians, because I thought they were also full citizens of the Hungarian nation. Here's the question of trust funds. I'm naive! When the law on the establishment of trust funds was brought here in 19 I thought naively that I wanted to conceal the development of stolen property, stolen public money, into family property with these types of foundations, so benevolent. What does that tell us? That this was all just to get the national assets stolen through trust funds. And I know now that I realized that the new Curatorium of the University of Theater Arts was surprised that the students protested because they didn't want it at all, and the government didn't want these trust foundations at universities to change the university curriculum, or change the structure of university education, or the ideological approach of the university to complete education, because, let's say, it's hard enough for them to do it in a physics-math class, but they were surprised because they knew that they were the means of stealing the wealth, and they didn't understand why the students were thinking about the quality change in education. Please make this amendment to the basic law a fundamental legal condition that if you want to change the future existence of these foundations by any law, it will take two thirds to do so. I'll tell you what, it doesn't matter what they put in it. If there is a change of government, believe me, you will find a way if these foundations do not manage their wealth carefully, then the people who have achieved it, even if they remain in the board of trustees of the foundation, there will be enough people who will be able to control and limit it. You can put this into any basic law, you can change it, believe me, because as long as you have brains, while you have creativity, and as long as you have a right, if you don't manage the public wealth fairly, because this, whether you like it or not, is possible to change the circumstances of that. Next is the state's income, expense, claim, that's the public money. This is amazing! This means that the local government's assets are not public money. There was someone here who started explaining to me that the municipality was state property. Well, the council isn't. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Yes, it is!]] The municipality has an independent public authority, the municipality is an independent organisation, independent of the state. The other issue is that the state budget receives money through normative and other support, but the municipality's money is not state money. The basic condition and foundation of democracy is the autonomy of the local government, which is why they have a separation. Here's to reading the provisions of the Fundamental Law on local governments just once, and then you'll see that I'm right! But I'll tell you something else about this: SAO check. When the state gives support to the party, it's out of the state's wealth system at that moment. If the State aid granted to the party is no longer public money, the SAO will no longer have the right to control it under the Fundamental Law. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] They cannot imagine the amount of discretion there will be between the Fundamental Law and the laws governing the various institutions, which will prevail or be linked to public money in any way. I say to all parties, at the first SAO audit, show me the Fundamental Law, and say that my friend, the money has come here, there is no obligation to repay, I can use it freely for my duties, you will not check it, because it is no longer public money under the provisions of the Fundamental Law. I'm just telling you this problem. I just don't understand why these rules that irritate society have to be made. Will the day rise brighter tomorrow if these rules are made? Will a piece of Hungarian citizen have a better life? Will there be any more quality in the state's organization? The coronal virus epidemic, if that's all we have, is a huge problem, and we know that in two weeks' time, we'll be in this country. Do you think that in a situation like this, this which you bring to us, in any way, will affect the future and the situation of our country in a positive way? No, I didn't. These rules will be ready for you after 22:00. Mom is a woman, Dad is a male story about our country breaking sails, it's very clear. And what I can tell you is that I've never heard of any LGBTQ organization from the following: that any of them, if they had a legal parent for a child, would have wanted the man to be registered as a mother, a woman as a father. I've never heard anything like it, ever! And I don't think I'm uninformed. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] And by the way, if that's your problem, and God forbid, or God forbid, a man of the same sex is going to adopt a child, then why should you mother and father? Well, there's the nice word that you use in Hungarian legal terminology called a caregiver. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the pro-government ranks.]]
u2020-11-18-262	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Now we have a two-minute speech. Congressman Antal Csárdi applied for two minutes. I'm gonna wait for him to put his microphone on, and we're gonna start time from there. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-263	Thank you very much for the floor. My colleague Hollik's speech motivated my speech, because what he said about public money and what he thinks about public money is quite shocking. So when we say that tao money is not a public money, even though, how did my fellow Member say that the government had renounced its revenue, this sentence alone states that this Hungarian state's income, otherwise it would not have been able to give up on it. In the same way, he gave up any support we could find in the budget, and yet it remains public money. I understand, and we can see that this has been played through the Tao money, and this has been confirmed by dozens of court judgments, and that, unlike your worldview, Tao is public money, and that is what they are now trying to solve by amending the basic law. It's quite criminal. I would also like to refer to the quote by my fellow Member Hollik, especially as a Christian Democrat, which sounds to me that the homosexual people have the right to live in a family. And before you think long and hard about who I quoted from Pope Francis, you and I are wrong to say that this quote comes from our shared spiritual leader. [[21.00]] And I think that you, as a Christian, and I as a Christian, should rightly accept it, and something completely bleak or completely bloody is that you are in conflict with your own faith. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] In contrast to their own ideology, they intend to make an amendment that goes against it completely. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-11-18-264	Thank you very much, Congressman. A two-minute speech will be held by Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-265	I would like to talk to my fellow Members about one more thing. Dóra Dúró has the right to grind books, Gergely Arató has the right to demand that women should not be seen as birth mothers, but only as domestics, my colleague Lőrinc Nacs has the right not to understand texts in general. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks. Dániel Z. Carpathian: Now, I ask you this. Nacsa Lárinc: I didn't say anything!]] Imre Vejkey has the right to express the text of the law in a different way than what is written. Everyone in this House has the right to express their views, to be smart or stupid, or to be comprehensible or incomprehensible. Everyone has the right to their opinion. We have no right to judge or judge someone for their ideological foundations or opinions. We and I, although I often criticize my fellow pro-government Members, still have to accept that he believes that he is living his life on these ideological grounds, that I am not blaming him for it, and that I expect it to be the other way around. No one can reproach each other for not agreeing with each other. We are living in very difficult times, and Fidesz-KDNP in this Parliament makes this period even more difficult, because we cannot concentrate on trying to bring the citizens of our country out of this terrible trouble together, but we are dealing with false themes and problems that are still making the difference between us, generating huge, no-no arguments, because the debate, if there is, is a debate that will lead the world forward, you have just put us in a position to be part of a sexless debate. But even in the course of the naughty debates, I take the view that everyone, whatever you think in this House, has a right to what you think. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] And no one can forbid anyone's thoughts or intentions. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-11-18-266	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The next two-minute speaker is Mr Attila Mesterházy, and I will give the chair to my vice-president, István Hiller. Here you go. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]]
u2020-11-18-267	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, With this exchange, the ratio has improved even further, because, as I look at it in this House, it is so important for the Fidesz Members to amend the Constitution that there are only two Fidesz members who are not obliged to be here, and one of these Members is KDNP, the Minister has left the Secretary of State hostage, I suppose. [[Gábor Bányai laughs.]] And the senior president has to be here. Compared to this, there are seven or eight opposition representatives, so it seems that if we were more concerned with your amendment of the Constitution than you are, they argue that this is important. But why I wanted to make a two-minute comment now is that I see that in the new fidesz communication, the magic word is to create a mood, because I see that yesterday Lőrinc Nacsa said it as a chorus, today István Hollik kept repeating it, and that the opposition representatives here are telling lies and creating a mood. Well, I'd like to tell you who's in the mood. Please, you're creating a mood and your press, and I'd like to mention four numbers immediately, so that we don't start a very big debate about this, which will tell us who is basically spreading false news, fake news, lies. In 2018, right, this is an election year, imagine that the media linked to Fidesz lost 109 cases of press litigation and correction lawsuits. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oops!]] [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oops!]] So when you said something you couldn't prove. (Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oops!) On the other hand, the press to the opposition just to have a basis for comparison [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] He lost 14 of these lawsuits, so 109 versus 14. This was a 2018 data. And one in 2019: 61 press cases were lost in the media near the government, and four in the media related to the so-called opposition. So it's clear from this that you're the ones spreading false news, and you're not even ashamed of it. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: In fact, they are proud of it! Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-11-18-268	Good evening. We'll get back to work. Congressman Nacsa Lárinc... excuse me, excuse me. Now I'm adapting to the system here. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát will be given a two-minute speech, and then you will be well prepared, Congressman Nacsa, please. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I've been doing this for four hours!]] All right, here you go.
u2020-11-18-269	Mr President, Dear House, At the request of my friend György Szilágyi, I pressed the button because the issue of migration, immigration and immigration was mentioned. We had a discussion earlier on the memorable amendment of the basic law, which Jobbik did not vote for, with all due respect, because we have to mention that Jobbik has tabled half a dozen amendments to the basic law before it, which would have completely excluded all forms of immigration, immigration, and therefore also in the case of rich migrants and poor migrants. The fact is that Fidesz-KDNP was not at all open to this at the time, it was not the age spirit, it was not yet a political product for migration. At the beginning of 2015, when I told Mr Kontra, Secretary of State, that there were such problems and indeed conflicts in the area of various reception centres, the Secretary of State said that such a problem did not exist, but then confirmed by his Fidesz colleagues; a few months later, when the Népsny language baptized the Keleti Railway Station into the Middle East railway station, this happened because you had already made a political product of it. And when we indicated that we could support a fundamental law amendment that precludes all forms of immigration, we did this precisely because we had anticipated what would happen from the establishment bond construction that this government had fraudulently worked out. As a result, this government sold the hallway of Hungarian citizenship for money as a market kofa, and the Hungarian taxpayers still pay the interest on it. In this budget, and in the previous one, which could finance the epidemiological defense, subscribers will pay for your supposedly corruption channel in the order of ten billion dollars. So, when we mention the issue of migration, let this be the basis: the settlement bond structure is one of the biggest corruption scandals in the last thirty years. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-11-18-270	We will now return to the hearing of the views of the speakers who have been announced. Congressman Nacsa, as I have already said, please.
u2020-11-18-271	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, It is not easy to respond to everything you have said here, often trying to bring Mr Mesterházy here in front of this House out of a mood. I would just like to signal to Congressman Mesterházy that until now there was a pro-government press and an independent press, but then we were right that there was a opposition press, because until now we knew there was a pro-government propaganda door and an independent objective press, but at least around 9:00 we were able to put it right here. I'd like to go in line with your opinions, react to a few things, if I may. The representative of Jobbik, Csaba Gyüre, spoke deplorably and mockingly about the national consultation. It was good for you to steal this and do a Jobbik consultation, a real consultation, as they called it. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Real questions!]] So it looks like it's a useful tool to get citizens' opinions. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre interrupts.]] Obviously, the congressman is confused that the consultation is good or bad, because they have also used it. The list of corruption you said, well, it could be a very credible list if we're in the same place as Romania. I think this will tell you everything about the credibility of this list. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre interrupts.]] This has been spoilt by several people, and I think Csaba Gyüre and Andrea Varga-Damm: the municipal system is part of the state system. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: I didn't say anything about it!]] Congressman Szilágyi said it was your lead speaker. The municipal system is part of the state system, as the municipal budgets are part of the state budget sub-schemes, and the municipality... For example, the municipal debt would not count into the public debt in any way, the municipal assets would not count into the national assets. They are wrong, honourable Members, that is precisely the rule, and the transparency clause, which is included in the amendment of the basic law, also applies to municipal property, of course they did not miss it. But I'm going in line. Dániel Z. Kárpát also said that the many amendments to the basic law have already been made. Well, there were more that you didn't vote for, we can also remember the one that prohibited resettlement, then you didn't vote for it. Then they did it out of political calculation, and now they'd do it out of conviction that they wouldn't vote for such a fundamental law amendment. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre laughs.]] Which forbids introduction. [[21.10]] Tamás Bellozó must reject his claim that he considers us racist and homophobic because we have tabled a fundamental amendment to the law that says the father is a man and the mother is a woman by nature, based on normality. I think calling us racists is at least outrageous, and I'm rejecting it. However, since the relationship between state wealth and private property has been extended by Mr Harangozó, let me tell you what kind of robbery has taken place here between 2002 and 2010 under the leadership of the Medgyessy, Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments. You can also remember that 190 companies, most of them profitable public companies, have simply become private property, foreign stromes, left-wing Red Barons, MSZP oligarchs. And, of course, SZDS, but good or nothing about the dead. Budapest Airport, MÁV Cargo, the utilities, and I could continue with the list that you simply sold out of national assets. That was the time. Congressman S Gyure, Mr Szilágyi, Head of the Cross Group, is working to get these people their positions of power back. This has already been achieved in the capital. Timea Szabó also played a prosecutor and a judge here, when he said that without any basis, and I would like to reject this very, very strongly, where he would send us, and he immediately said in the film A Witness, that, oops, this is the verdict that we should go to prison. If you know of any lawlessness, file a complaint, but I will reject your accusations. I declare that I have never ascribed a penny of public money or stolen it. He's accusing us of aiding and accusing us of stealing, and he wants us to go straight to jail. I hope you'll be just as strict with Leisztinger, who founded the company seven days before closing the BKK tender that Gergely Christmas wrote, and that, no, he won the bus rental tender right away. Christmas is the mayor elected with your support. I hope you'll let me know because it's a duty for public officials to signal this to your mayor and deputy mayor. I would also ask you, Mr Crossman, to step up in this matter, so that that left-wing Red Baron Leisztinger does not receive so much money by setting up a company seven days before the tender expires. But I also ask György Szilágyi to lobby Gergely Christmas so that his company founded a week before the tender expires does not receive the BKK's bus rental tender. If you're so sensitive to public money, you'll do that tomorrow or the day after, to tell Gergely Christmas that it's not okay. Szabó Timea, co-president of the Dialogue, quickly ran off on behalf of the dialogue. He's the co-chairman of Gergő Christmas. I think it is at least his duty to inform the Mayor that very, very reverse things are happening with public funds in Budapest. Csaba Gyüre said that if the state renounces its tax revenue, it is immediately a hotbed of corruption. This means that 95 percent of Hungarian families are hotbeds of corruption, as it is also the case with family tax incentives that the state waives the income tax and contributions to receive the child's family, and 95 percent of families entitled to family allowances take advantage of this opportunity, the family tax reduction. You're saying that families would also be hotbeds of corruption. I don't think that's the case. I have a much better view of Hungarian families than you do. I would like to point out to Mr Harvesto that we are working with all our might to ensure that Christian culture and Hungarians survive us. This may be bad news for him, but we will work with all our might to survive Christianity and Hungarians. This bill serves this very purpose, and we have done so many more, our actions in recent years and in the years to come, so that Christianity and Hungarians will survive us. I can see that you're not interested in this, which is why we're on the opposite side, but it doesn't bother me, and I'm gonna be working on it anyway. It is very interesting, as right-wing and LMP Members carefully avoid ideological issues from this fundamental law amendment. György Szilágyi, Csaba Gyüre and László Keresztes did not talk about Lóránt, not even by chance about the mother-father, male-female relationship. I'm guessing you got a text from Ferenc Gyurcsány at the beginning that this is not the place where you're going to get involved in this ideological debate. You can see they're trying to tell us that you agree with that. A few years ago, they would have agreed, and they might still agree in their hearts, but there's just this damn remorse that we need that list of places from Ferenc Gyurcsány, right, Congressman Szilágyi, we really need to, so maybe we shouldn't be talking about that. But let's face it, it is sad that we have come so far in Western European politics, European politics, that both obvious, natural and normal must be said and written in the Fundamental Law: the mother is a woman and the father is a man. It's nature's order. Andrea Varga-Damm asked me all kinds of legal questions, but there is also nature law, only the Congresswoman forgets about it. Well, it's natural law. And it has to be written precisely because he tells us to show how long men and women have been present as legal concepts in our legal system. Well, there is the ambition now in many countries, in international organisations and in the EU's expectations to put a gender issue in our legal system, to create gender legislation. That's why we rejected the Istanbul agreement. And remember, ladies and gentlemen, on 1 September 2010, Hungarian kindergartens should have introduced gender-based education. Here is the Secretary of State for Education who created this rule under the leadership of the Hungarian Bálins. If Fidesz-KDNP didn't take the wheel in 2010, then from September 1 the little girls could have had the car and the little boys and the baby. It's mandatory. And not because they wanted it, but because it's a state policy. I think that this is wrong, and I am glad that this is not how kindergarten groups started on 1 September 2010. I would like to say to Szabó Timea that I do not think that the Holy Crown is a joke, that it is a funny and ironic amendment or that it is a political spirit, but that is his question. Dear Jobbik and Members of the LMP, ask yourself, no matter what the cost, no matter what happens, no matter what is written in the electoral law, no matter what the people want, no matter what happens, no matter what happens, no matter what happens in the electoral law, no matter what the people want, you will be put into power. [[György Szilágyi: I didn't say that! That's a lie!]] Think about it, and listen to your conscience for at least a moment, listen to your conscience for a moment, what kind of country it will be, where you will have to join forces and execute your instructions with those people who want to give up national sovereignty, to whom men and women are not enough, but want to bring in about 60 other socially created genders. And what this world will be like, it's just a little taste. In the United Kingdom, one of the largest leading cervical cancer screening organisations has published campaigns that everyone is looking forward to cervical cancer screening, whether or not they have a uterus. I would like to bring this world here; or where, by law, the third sex is introduced into the public address, the identity cards, so that there is no third, neutral; or the most important activity of one of the Scandinavian parliaments is to invent the gender-neutral signal of the toilets, the toilets. You will assist this government. If this government stands up, such questions will come up. Then you have to choose a side. 'Cause now you can fit into this Gyurcsány fabric from the opposition benches, but you have to choose sides based on conscience. Or when in Canada the military is commanded and prescribed by law that only neutral people can address each other, we know men and women that English is a difference between neutral people. Or when these sensitizations reach 1, 2, 3, 4, 5-year-olds called sensitization, this is the Western European and North American mainstream trend. I want you to account for what you're going to do when these questions are on the table. That is why it must be said that the mother is a woman, and the father is a man, and the child has the right to an education that corresponds to his gender identity, and which rests on Hungary's constitutional identity and Christian culture. Congresswoman Bangóne says that the health system is overwhelmed and has given examples of how many times they can pick up the phone. Well, exactly what we're saying is that that's why we shouldn't spread false news, so that the hospital leaders and the hospital press department don't have to fight every day with you telling us that the ventilator ran out and that there aren't enough doctors there, because they're not true, they're fake news. And that's what hospitals have to deal with when it's not their most important task right now. And the fact that my socialist fellow Member has denied the improvement in poverty figures over the last ten years is absolutely outrageous. The number of people exposed to severe material deprivation in Hungary has decreased. It's down to a third. This is the result of the last ten years. [[21.20]] I am not saying that we are where we want to be, I am not saying that there are no more poor people in Hungary, I am saying that in ten years there has never been so much government progress in these last thirty years as in the governments between 2010 and 2020. The congresswoman here has listed actresses, so she's good at acting. I'm sure that was a strong picture, and that's for him to decide. I do not agree with Andrea Varga-Damm that the support of parties or any support would not be public money. That's the state's demand until it's accounted for. But we know that there are parties here that have a problem with accounting for state aid, but until then, that's the state's demand. When the accounts are closed, when the competent authority, body, ministry, State Audit Office, the Public Procurement Authority has placed the seal on it, then, of course, the project of, say, a foundation, a church, a civil society organisation, anyone that could otherwise be carried out with public money will be realized. So that's not true, that's all demands. And that there was no effort, he said that you had never heard of an effort not to call parents "father" or "mother." Yes, you can. In France, there is a bill for being called parents 1 and 2, in Germany, regional billings, legislative proposals for being called parents 1 and 2 so that we don't make a difference, that they don't call them fathers and mothers, but parents 1 and 2. Well, exactly what we're talking about is that the entire Western world has become a prisoner of this genderideology, and they're constantly bringing more hairy thoughts into public thinking, trying to be sensitive! In official UN, official EU, official government documents and proposals, so-called social sensitivities are presented with hidden legislation related to gender issues. That's what you're talking about, because you're very quiet about it. They are very quiet about this, honourable Members, because this is normal, and we are not trying to replace it, because this is the Western pursuit of abnormality with normality! They want to change places, and then they can say that's what normality has always been! That's not true! We will continue to fight abnormality. Thank you very much. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-272	Thank you very much. As a pre-notified speaker, the representative of the MSZP, Mr Attila Mesterházy, will be next. Here.
u2020-11-18-273	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, I listened carefully to Congressman Nacsa's comment. After all, I was a little relaxed at the time, because it seems that this comment shows that you too are afraid of losing the next election. Why else would they want to cement the ideological issues that are important to you into the Fundamental Law? Why do you want to change the concept of public money? Why do they want to shape the modeling of universities so that a new government can touch them as hard as possible afterwards? By the way, the intention itself, as I see it, is otherwise encouraging to opposition representatives. Because if that's not what you're afraid of, then why do you have to put the norm, as you put it, into the Fundamental Law? Well, why does the evidence have to be put into law? I don't know. I listened to the debate here, and none of the Members debated whether the father was a man or a mother was a woman. So somehow there was no debate about this, anyway, I don't know if you've noticed. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Because we are afraid!]] A lot of things are, but not about that. [[György Szilágyi: No!]] Not even that the sky is blue and the grass is green. You might want to put that in the Fundamental Law, too, 'cause maybe somebody's questioning it. In fact, imagine that it is also worth writing in the Fundamental Law that the Earth is round! I'll tell you why, there's a serious follow-up camp for flatlanders. Extremely many Hungarian citizens and Hungarian voters believe that the Earth is flat. It would be worth preventing someone from thinking it might fall from the end. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's it!]] Therefore, I believe that there are fundamental truths that, of course, are not included in such a Fundamental Law that you are talking about, that they must be protected, because they are now being attacked, that these concepts are facing a challenge that makes this necessary. It's not like that. Congressman Nacsa could not give any Hungarian examples, spoke about France, talked about Germany. I commend Germany to its attention, essentially controlled by a Christian-conservative government, the chancellor Merkel, the CDU, and CSU are the government's major governing parties. In English, he could only give examples of something that you don't like. But I ask you, can they do this in Hungary? You have two-thirds! What are you afraid of? How can anyone here conduct an attack at the level of regulatory obligations that you cannot prevent? Well, they're gonna stop what they shouldn't. So I think that this is quite clear, and I said that in yesterday's debate, too, in today's debate, I will say that you are doing nothing but to end the Equal Treatment Authority, with this fundamental amendment and the transformation of adoption rules, but to appoint another social group as a scapegoat. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Which one?]] For example, the LGBTQ community, honourable Member. [[Dr. Pál Völner will spread his arms.]] And you can keep it like a penguin, Mr. Secretary, but still, imagine, that's my opinion. And if you don't like that... yesterday I asked you not to sit here as a hostage, but to press that button! Have the courage to stand up and accidentally speak so you can argue with yourself. 'Cause I'm gonna say it again, like a penguin. [[He's showing it to me.]] That won't do us much good. That's why you're sitting here. Please give me your opinion. Why don't you argue with me? I want you to challenge what the congressmen are saying here. Protect your own ideology, your own values, what you believe in. Not like a fried fish! Talk to me. I always commend Congressman Nacsa. At least he stands up for it. You're getting paid, bigger than he is, because he's a secretary of state. Talk to me! What do you mean you don't have an opinion about that? How come you're hiding out there at the very end, when opposition representatives can't say a word anymore, then you're gonna tell me that everyone here was stupid, just the smart one and the government? ! Well? So, Mr. Secretary of State, it's time for a change of government, I think. It's time for you to learn that you can't do anything in this country. It's time for them to understand that trees don't grow to the sky, because I see that nothing is sacred, that they cross every line. And yes, Congressman Nacsa, sensitivity makes sense in a society, no matter which social group it is. Yes, it is important to sensitize people on certain issues, because they probably do not encounter a phenomenon due to their life situation, which would naturally happen, to understand that it is not a problem that exists, that it is not worse or better, but that it is simply different. There are many such social groups. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes.]] So I don't think it's a problem at all if there's an effort to do that. You can argue with what form, how, what is the right professional approach to this. But I would add that I cannot participate in this debate because I do not know how to do this. But you don't know how to do it either, so you shouldn't be involved in this debate, as a matter of fact. That is why I think that these three amendments to the law that we have in front of this House are nothing more than an election campaign in 2022. The migrants are probably less motivated now, and György Soros is probably boring enough for everyone now. Although I don't know, Congressman Szilágyi recalled history, but interestingly, I always say it every time George Soros comes up, I applied for a Soros scholarship, so imagine that I didn't get one, and you got one. But yet I am the Soros Rentalr, not those who were financed by György Soros, when your liberal party was formed, because you used to be a liberal party, you were the branch organization of the SZDSZ and your youth organization only when you mentioned lies and cloaking. Then one day they thought it would be more rewarding if they went in such a conservative direction, and then suddenly from there God, home, family, was the main pillar of your policy, and before that, here in Parliament, they talked about the fact that "Chucks, on your knees!" I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I therefore believe that these three proposals are nothing but part of a cynical, perverse political campaign. Here, perhaps, Congressman Hollik said in his comment that there will be more laws that will then interpret and clarify the Fundamental Law. So this was probably the kick-up of the campaign engine to put it this way, and then, from now on, there will be other proposals that will pollinate this initiative. [[21.30]] But the reason I wanted to say this is that there is nothing else here but the same fucking political, party political campaign, no values or anything else. Simply based on their polls, they think it's the right direction, because you can win votes on it. No matter what the consequences of this are for Hungarian society, the damage they do to Hungarian society, it doesn't matter whether it helps you even a centimeter or a millimeter to obtain votes. Therefore, with these same themes, they also seek to share society and to look for the topics with which this sharing can be achieved in different cases. It's an old technique, unfortunately it's also a technique that works many times, and this is what your governance and politics show, and I would like to conclude with what I started by saying that it probably wouldn't have started if the opposition didn't feel that if they put together a common list, that if there was an opposition candidate against a candidate in each district, that if each campaign team was organized alongside the leadership of a prime minister, then there would be a very significant chance that you would lose this next election. [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] And I don't think they're gonna give you their powers easily, that's for sure. However, I think that Hungary is ripe, and perhaps it is also in the national interest that you stop governing. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik and MSZP.]]
u2020-11-18-274	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, There are two-minute speeches coming up. First, the representative of Jobbik, Congressman Csaba Gyüre, please.
u2020-11-18-275	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was inspired by Lőrinc Nacsa, I didn't wish to comment on the debate, but we were accused of the fact that Jobbik was the one who didn't vote for the previous amendment of the basic law on the issue of plantings, and we stood next to the institutors. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties: That's right! It's a fact!]] Well, let me point out to Mr Nacsa that it was you who voted against the better proposal seven times to have a zero solution to the migrant issue, but you never agreed to let the migrants into Hungary, because you made a business out of it and a national security risk... [[Dániel Z. Carpathian coming to the room: That's right!]] Nation.... Yes... workers have been installed [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I'm confused!]] And people who were a national security risk. And you let tens of thousands in for money, made a deal out of it, made a billion-dollar deal out of it. We wanted to prevent this, but you insisted that these people come to Hungary all along, because you hung hundreds of billions and hundreds of billions of them. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] For you, exercising power means only business, money that you have used, and that's all you've used in the migrant issue, it's just business. Until 2015 you did support the arrival of migrants in Hungary [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: That's right!]] In vain the Jobbik kept saying [[Gábor Bányai intervenes. Z. Carpathian Daniel: Don't you like it? György Szilágyi: Money...]] regularly that this has to be stopped, you said, and your great leader said that it has to get used to it, Europe has to get used to it, that migrants are coming to this country. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] We were the only ones who stood up to this, and now you're the ones who're taking the floor? When we were the ones who consistently stood up for it all along, to this day, and you're bringing it in today. [[György Szilágyi: The settlement policy should have been issued...]] Will tens of thousands of migrant workers be deployed into this country? Well, what does this look like? ! [[György Szilágyi: Talking about the bond! You're talking about that business...]] What you all supported, the Fidesz-KDNP, you all supported! Yeah, that national security risk... [[Z. Kárpat towards the pro-government benches: Don't grin...]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-11-18-276	Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc, two minutes. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: The bond is on sale, the potato is on sale!]]
u2020-11-18-277	Because Csaba Gyüre says it out loud, it won't be true yet! [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] So you, when our two thirds were missing and needed, didn't support the amendment of the Constitution banning resettlement when we had our two thirds. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]] then that they didn't, they supported it. Now, that's political business. And he's telling us what politics means to us. To me, politics means only principles and values, only those words [[Defiance and interruptions from Jobbik's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] It's just that those words don't look familiar to you anymore, because you've been abandoned on the way. When they hit Ferenc Gyurcsány, they left those words because they were a principle and a value, they could no longer be found in Jobbik. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: The potato is on sale!]] Once upon a time, I'm very sorry I didn't... I would say to Congressman Mesterházy that every election is an out-and-out game, and every election is in the cards that someone wins or loses. And we run for every choice by trying to win people's trust with our best knowledge and best performance. That's why we don't have anything to fear, or we don't have anything to fear, but every choice is a game, and we have to win people's trust. That's how we look at the election. If you think it's some kind of cut-down deal, or earlier, I don't know how it was done in 2002 and 2006, I don't blame you. It is important for us to gain people's trust in this matter. And you're right, there's a theme, and I don't like it because the Western liberals ruined the word "sensitization," but there's something that's the real, original meaning of that word. There is a need for sensitivity on certain topics, but this is not the same as, say, genderpropaganda, I think we should remember that. For example, it is necessary to write such fundamental values in the Fundamental Law to give Hungary a long-term, predictable and stable vision and to remain a strong community not only now, but in ten, twenty, fifty, hundred years' time, when we will no longer be discussing these issues here. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Csaba Gyüre: We'll let the paid migrants in, yes!]]
u2020-11-18-278	Thank you very much. Congressman Gergely Harvesto, DK!
u2020-11-18-279	Well, I think that this debate and this is a good time to discuss the issue of the basic kindergarten programme. We've been carrying this misunderstanding with us for ten years, but I'm always open to the idea that I'm a kind of educator to help teach, teach, and eliminate such incomprehensions. Do you know what that scandalous sentence in the basic program was that you erased urgently? I read: kindergarten education is child-centred, inclusive, and accordingly seeks to develop the personality of a child, ensuring equal access for all children. It is consciously avoiding the strengthening of gender stereotypes, helping to break down prejudices about gender equality. And what did you replace that with? It does not give place to the emergence of prejudices in social, gender, or any other sense. Well, that's a big difference. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's a big difference!]] From this change, they twisted the baby car out of the children's hands and put a baby in it, or vice versa. Congressman, kindergarten teachers, as opposed to some Members, do not want to be personal here, they understand their profession, as a result they fully understand that this sentence means exactly the same thing, whatever it is: that we do not strengthen prejudices; that we do not say that women should only be in the kitchen; we do not say that women are inferior to men, because these stereotypes and prejudices. [[Lőrinc Nacsa: Old wives!]] This has nothing to do with games, dear congressman. On the other hand, I would also like to ask Mr Mesterházy, at the same time, not to give ideas to the KDNP, because as I see this speed of time travel and that nothing is expensive if you hope for political gain, I would not like to live to see the tenth amendment of the basic law including the fact that the Earth is flat, if you think so. [[Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] I think it's best to be careful about that, in case we turn back so much of the time, and it turns out that the order of the world you're imagining doesn't fit the round Earth. Thank you very much. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: It's not round, it's Earth-shaped...]]
u2020-11-18-280	Well, then, we've had a good discussion. Congressman Mesterházy, MSZP, two minutes!
u2020-11-18-281	Thank you very much. Mr President, I just wanted to say to Congressman Nacsa that it is indeed true that you are thinking on a value basis, if you call it a forint, that is for sure. And you know that if it makes us a strong community, and then a thousand years from now, because it's now written in the Fundamental Law that the father is the man and the mother is a woman, then the Hungarians will be in a lot of trouble in a thousand years. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: The other side...]] Even if you think of your policy as having such a positive effect. Look, Congressman, I always wonder when you're accusing the opposition of this feudalism, and each and every fight, and all their politics... Your prime minister himself said that fidesz political culture is always about finding conflicts, about demonstrating power, that the Fidesz character doesn't fit the compromise. If the Prime Minister hadn't told us this, we would still know, because we see on a daily basis that they are doing nothing but looking for conflict, that they are always trying to train some kind of scapegoat, where the last eight years, where George Soros, where the gypsies, where the migrants, where the gays are. No matter who, they can only fight some kind of enemy. This is their policy, in fact, and this is the draft law, as I have just said, that is all about seeking enemies, looking for and creating more and more enemies. Thank you, Mr. President. [[21.40]]
u2020-11-18-282	We will now return to the speeches of the speakers who have asked for a normal word. Congressman Nacsa, I see you've signed up for two minutes, and that goes for the next round. Congressman László Varga! [[For signal:]] No! I'm sorry, Congressman Cook, there's so many people lining up in the other column that I could barely take my eyes away. That is correct, Mr László Szakács is next, MSZP, a regular speaker as announced. Here.
u2020-11-18-283	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've really been looking forward to this opportunity. I'm not gonna miss it, I'm gonna tell you that I think, in fact, I'm absolutely sure that in the middle of the pandemic, when thousands of our countrymen get sick every week, that's why we have to get ahead of ourselves. [[Gábor Bányai is leaving the Chamber. Lőrinc Nacsa, leaving his seat, talks to Dr. Pál Völner.]] Right now, I'm waiting for every fidesz to go out, and then I'm going to convince the opposition representatives that I'm right. But maybe it'll just be the two of you, okay? [[Nacsa Lawrence is leaving.]] He's going out after all. Then I'll convince Mr. Secretary. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: No, I'm here!]] We listened to Congressman Vejkey how should I say this? a rather smearful speech by the Turkish Baath Party's leading speaker on Christian Europe. I think there's still a lot to freshen up on history, I think. Europe was always a little more diverse than that. By the way, an ambitious plan, which the government has now put before itself, is that Europe will stop this diversity and, so to speak, will be a withdrawn saber of this endeavour. That's what they believe, do it. This isn't the future. Europe will never go this way, and Europe will not go this way, but we will leave this debate to the future and to those who will appreciate it later. We have also heard from Congressman Vejkey again that a conqueror is attacking the Christian community. Well, he's not attacking her. You must always be attacked by someone to protect the country from, our Christian entity. Believe me, we're usually on the same side, and I believe in the same thing you believe in. But with one thing, I feel like I'm more than you are: I can accept if you believe anyone else. I can accept if someone thinks otherwise as long as they do so peacefully. You see a fight and a warrior where there is none. And then I thought, in this speech, that I would like to do you all the favors of talking about that screen you're putting up to us, that the father is the man, the mother is the woman. I've been thinking about it, telling my wife before I left, that I think we should have told the kid, because sooner or later, it's gonna come out, okay? Now you can see it, it's written in the Fundamental Law. We may have made a mistake in this family, but I think the kid already found out. What bothers me a lot more than that, and you can see this process, the elimination of the Equal Treatment Authority, as you define the primacy of certain thoughts, certain values, which, of course, you might fit into your own agenda, your own narrative, not us, is that you are trying to get us to accept, and that is what everyone here is trying to say, that there are people who, by their status, can always vindicate the truth to themselves. Who, just because they have a certain status, geographical location, religion, skin color, whatever they have, can carry the truth to themselves, and as nature dictates, there are those who, by their status, can never vindicate the truth for themselves. And we won't believe that, even if we believe in the same god, even if we have the same religion. We're not going to believe that there are people who can't be right in the first place, because you think they have a status, and there are people who are right in the first place, because their status is completely different. Before they wave their heads, I can get all the quotes from all their leading politicians, from the blind comondo, from the women's principle, to where the women's place is, to the place where everything is, that's your idea of it. And we think it's wrong, that's not true. Someone's status, right, real place, busy role in the world and in their own community is their own courage, talent, risk-taking ability to base it. That's what we believe, not what you believe. Of course, we understand why they are, why they want to push this conservative ideology in this direction with great force. Obviously, on the opposition side, they expect the parties to think differently, and this will generate tension and say who is who's ally and who's when. Trust me, we've all been through this. What you've done for the last ten years... [[To Nacsa Lawrence:]] You're not over him, we're not counting on Congressman Nacha's vote. But if you wish, we'll convince you. What they've done over the last ten years to tell you has been able to bury ideological trenches. This, I think, is largely beyond the opposition, which is what you see in front of you, and that is what you saw in the municipal elections. That's what you've seen, that where there are voters who are more interested in public life, you're usually behind. Where One-Bit Communication Doesn't Come Over [[Gábor Bányai: That's not true!]] They weren't usually good there. I think you have a part in this, of course. This screen you've put in front of it, this ideological policy making, it has a purpose, I don't think you're going to reach it. Then there is another provision, and this is public money, the revenue of the state. Once again, public money is going to lose its public money character, but now they're trying to do it a little better than Lajos Kósa and Erik Bánki, when he tried to explain at a press conference a little shabby how what goes down at the central bank can get into the foundations and why it doesn't have to be accounted for. In this, we can even have a debate here, on the opposition side, about which of these is the bigger summat, so to speak, the tao or the central bank. At the central bank, only 208 billion forints of foreign exchange gains were struck; I say quietly that which they confess. In addition, we listened to President Matolcsy, who said that from now on, interest gains, all other lumps, and profit reserves will be somewhere between 700 and 1000 billion. I know you're going to have to pay some of it into the budget as a dividend. But the rest? And that's gonna lose its public finances, because it's not gonna be the state's income. He stays with Matolcsy, who, on an adventurous journey, even though he founded foundations, runs them even more adventurously. I didn't see them shaking their heads this time, because we sued these papers. We've seen what's in there. He runs these foundations on an adventure, but you didn't learn from it, but created more foundations. There you can put wealth, public money, and then you can use it to save it, and so you really are now under the power of the Constitution or the Fundamental Law, which I say, by the power of the Fundamental Law, you will lose the character of public money. I think that's the bigger problem. Here they take a lot of money from the Hungarians. They take a lot of money from the Hungarians. [[21.50]] I am not going to address the problem of foreign exchange credentials, because of the shortness of time, which I believe they have saved, that they will never again wish to be saved by you, just as they have saved the victims of Quaestor. But this is how the central bank will operate, it will take the money; the Tao will perhaps be followed by Peter Polt, as he does in these matters, and they believe that this should be included in the Fundamental Law. I think that's what this is all about. It's spilled, of course, with this conservative, onioned part, which I think everyone agrees with, in general, that the father is a man and the mother is a woman on this issue, but you don't forget to make money on this, and you don't forget to make politics either. I told you yesterday, I'll tell you today: what you've probably looked at, measured, based on the measurements of the Rogán Ministry. It's very simple: prejudice pays well now. That's what I'm based on. Are you talking about the fact that the United States of Europe is sovereignty? Are you talking about sovereignty? Well, they sold out the country, they sold Paks II to the Russians, we owe it to the Chinese, they gave our employees to the German multinationals. What else does this government decide? Well, that's already double the exposure to our partners, not even federal states, which basically raises sovereignty issues. I think it's worth dealing with. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You sold 190 companies!]] [[Nacsa Lőrinc: You sold 190 companies!]] These are things that should be dealt with outside the federal systems. Well, if they don't come with tanks, they come with rubles, is that better? (Lőrinc Nacsa: You sold 190 companies!) There is also a sure dialogue genre, then we will also conduct it [[György Szilágyi: Thirty years ago!]] But I think we're absolutely right about that. Not long ago, I sat down at the meeting of the Economic Commission, where we listened to your minister, János Süli. The Minister told me when I asked for a few public procurements, for example, how the Butchers got near Paks again, not many, a modest, albeit not offensive, 7 billion. How did they get there? After all, if we understood the Minister's reply correctly and why we wouldn't have understood it correctly, he said in Hungarian, he said that they actually don't care about anything here, they don't decide, the Russian partner conducts the public procurement, the Russian partner selects the partners, that's what this is all about. Now, if we believe that, I'm not necessarily one of those people who believes that they have nothing to do with the development of the Paks, then that really raises sovereignty issues. I think, in addition to the fact that it's not the time, in addition to the fact that you're trying to force this country to have the kind of conservative world view that there are people who, by their status, can always carry the truth to themselves, and some people who, by their status, can never carry the truth to themselves, we're not gonna be able to agree with that. Let it be that the Equal Treatment Authority is being eliminated, let it be that you will write down what you think is family and what is not family, whether it is something like that, or whether it is how the values of Christian Europe are preserved with its withdrawn saber, we think that it can only be successful and that only the person who is really right to reason and who really is thinking the right thing to do. As we can see, in this warrior, so to speak, warrior narrative, which you have, this cannot fit. There's statements in there, there's preordained things, and there's a lot of public money. There's the tao, hundreds of billions of the MNB, if you're lucky with Matolcsy, then there could be a thousand that they're going to spend on something. That's what this amendment to the Fundamental Law is all about. To get back to my original idea of where I started, it could have happened after the pandemic. We've got other things to do. We've got a lot of work to do. Let us thank everyone who has worked today to keep thousands of people alive, others to recover, and others not to catch this virus, which is why we really have a lot to do right now, not that, not that. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-11-18-284	Thank you very much. We have a two-minute speech. Congressman Nacha, KDNP, two minutes, please.
u2020-11-18-285	Thank you very much. Mr President, The ideological trenches have been buried. If we change it, the cover of ideological trenches was solved by money, they threw money bags into ideological trenches, and now anti-Semitism is okay. Luckily, for example, anti-Semitism is okay, and we understand how you bury ideological trenches, but this is your responsibility. Congressman Mesterházy said that we want strong communities to be here in 10-20-50-100 years. This is not the only amendment to the basic law that will help this. I was thinking of the second sentence in the amendment of the basic law, by the way, the education of children, healthy physical, mental, mental education. But what we have done over the past ten years to help families, to strengthen national sovereignty, to develop the economy, is to be small! I was thinking of exceeding your slogan or patriotism, which will strengthen this community, which we call a nation, and this will be the future of Hungary. That we're always looking for an enemy image, or we're fighting someone or something, you're absolutely right about that. In 2010, we didn't have to look, there were enemies, the huge unemployment left behind, the issue of public debt, the issue of foreign exchange credentials, and the scale of the enormous poverty you've all left behind were our enemies. We have succeeded in much of it, however, even though there is work in the period ahead, and precisely because there is still work to be done, we will be asking for the voter's trust in 2022. These are our real enemies. These are the ones you left behind. Thank you. [[Applause from the Fidesz ranks.]]
u2020-11-18-286	Congressman Cook, MSZP, two minutes.
u2020-11-18-287	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Foreign exchange loan holders were rescued, and then the government, by the way, Viktor Orbán, signed with the EBRD on 9 February 2015 a pact that sold them for a pound of forints, for apologies and euros. This government has agreed that it will not create any obstacles to eviction. This government has agreed that forinting will not cost Hungarian banks a penny. This government has undertaken not to impose legislation on banks that reduces their profitability in any way. Even on the government's website, they dared to put it in English so no one could understand. This was done in connection with a legal transaction in which 15 percent of Erste Bank was purchased, which, by the way, was not needed by the government. That's what I call a fight. That's a hell of a fight. That's what I call being protected. In fact, I don't even wish for you to be protected so much. And the result? Four or seven thousand evictions a year. That's what we know when they call the police. Well, they weren't in the constitutional defense, they weren't in the right of Hungarians to housing, they weren't in it. What's in it? Public money loses its character in public money. That's what got into it. That's your thinking. That's why I also said, with regard to foreign exchange lenders, that I think they'll regret being so saved, and that's why I think they're not necessarily on the right track. What will unite you is the money, the public money that will now lose its character in public money. That is what this amendment is really about. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-11-18-288	Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik, in two minutes.
u2020-11-18-289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congressman Nacsa is talking about abnormality. Do you know what the word of abnormality is, Congressman? [[Nacsa Lawrence: The Jobbik!]] The fact that you're called Christian Democrats with splattering and hateful speeches like what you're doing. And it's definitely an abnormal thing to call you a party at all, without any basic organizations or members. Now, this abnormality is about what you're doing. You're always talking about ideologies, about who sold ideology for money, and you're talking about it? [[22.00]] They left a liberal party and kept changing themselves, where the power and the money were? ! You're talking about selling money, an ideological change, when you're telling the country that you're protecting it from migrants? ! Then when the money came out and you were able to get money in the form of a settlement policy, at that moment, didn't it matter to protect the country? ! Didn't the migrants matter? Didn't it matter? They let anyone in and threatened the security of this country because they were able to make money with settlement bonds? Are you constantly pointing back into the past? [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Congressman Nacsa, I've told you a few times not to communist, because most Communists are in your ranks, former MSZMP members, KIS Secretary. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Go over there someday, ask Comrade Fat what it was like to work for the MSZMP Party and its committee. Congressman Nacsa, once again, these are facts. Those are the facts! Are you here trying to eyeball these facts to the National Assembly when it's you who are willing to do anything for money? They're willing to do anything for money, even now, even in the middle of the epidemic, they're thinking about stealing. [[There are constant interruptions from the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And how to protect the stolen property. Shame on you for such speeches.
u2020-11-18-290	We return to the hearing of speakers who have asked for a normal word. Congressman László Varga, MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-291	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, here we are, discussing the annual regular review of the granite-solid Fundamental Law. Nine years, nine amendments, so I think this general debate is known to all of us. Each year, this legislation, this Fundamental Law, is practically amended. It's particularly outrageous, by the way, this year, even the circumstances. After all, this amendment of the basic law was introduced on the same day, when, by the way, Parliament, almost unanimously, with the support of all opposition groups, extended the emergency announced by the government for 90 days; when, on a daily basis, 4-5 thousand new cases of coronal virus were diagnosed in the country; when, in the course of its victim-ready work, many health workers struggled with the epidemic that is the reality of everyday life in Hungary. Hundreds of thousands are struggling with the social and economic effects of this epidemic. Since the Secretary of State is keen to take notes, let me say that the kind of political consensus that came about during this 90-day extension has given me some hope that they may not unilaterally force certain laws through the parliament that has been in operation. That was a great idealism. Already that evening, countless unacceptable pieces of legislation and unnecessary draft legislation were submitted. This was, by the way, the electoral law before, when it is outrageous to change electoral laws unilaterally in this way, and so is the amendment of the basic law. And the ideological battles around this area are due to themselves, by the way. Well, you made this argument that way. My fellow Member Vejkey went out as a lead speaker, and practically not by analysing the literal meaning of the text, he spoke about the struggle between the dark side and objective truth, setting up the opposition and opposition representatives for the people of the dark side. It was really nonsense to listen to these kind of pro-government statements. So this proposal is unnecessary, this proposal is a one-sided dictatorship, it is unfortunate to bring in such amendments to the basic law, and then I put it very gently, because it is in fact outrageous and should be rejected. I think we don't have to go that far in a multi-hour debate at 10:00 p.m. Their proposals can be divided into three groups. The first group is amendments for the direct power interests of the governing parties. My opposition fellow Members rightly pointed out why this is a strategic issue for you in relation to public-interest trust foundations, in what way they prepare for you to have huge assets available here in such foundations, if you lose the election; it is outrageous to define the concept of public money that every Hungarian person understands, in everyday life, it is very clear what the public money is. You define the narrowest possible definition. We know very well that the struggles of recent years with regard to transparency, publicity or transparency in the use of tao money are behind this. I'd put this in a group, a group of amendments for the direct power interests of Fidesz. I have set two examples, not surprisingly, as an opposition representative, I can say that I am genuinely outraged by the fact that they are being put into a basic legislative amendment package. Second of all, I can say that there are actually unnecessary elements. Here many have given an example that the addition that the mother is a woman, the father is a man, and the triviality of this is absolutely clear to all Members and to the entire Hungarian society. And it is not the exclusion that this is literally interpreted by us, or that we are examining, the banality or triviality of this, but that which has been built into this area in the last few weeks; your wordings in their own media, your competition with our country in this story. I can't decide if it's a competition or an alliance in this story. This will be decided by life, but I see that I think they are what they are, they always do, and this particular scraping of books seems to have reached a electoral layer that now hurts you, and they have taken some kind of symbolic action, and they have built up an extremely disqualified media campaign. And what's most tragic, and for that reason, if our children or grandchildren read these records in years to twenty years from now, I would like to apologize to them for saying so from the mouths of some of the pro-government representatives that have been said. I would like to say that it is very clear why opposition cooperation must be fought against your NER system in 2022. It is very clear that this has been enough in all respects, from the stories about public funds and from this disincentive, unacceptable thing that you are building here, even if you are embedded in this question behind trivial sentences. It is very clear why they are doing this, but it is possible that then they will probably think about adopting this package with the votes of the representatives of our country. Well, he's gonna divorce who the opposition is, I guess. There's a third package, which, if I try to be very fair, I say it's timeless, although it also has outrageous elements. I think that the revision of the rules of the special legal order may be justified, it has not been used in practice, so it can be considered what changes are needed in relation to the emergency and to various specific situations. But here I would like to say that these provisions will enter into force from July 1rd, 23rd, so here I would say that the timeless thing is that, in this situation in which the country is in, it is certainly not the most important thing that we decide on this right now. In addition, we have managed to smuggle an outrageous amendment in here, because dilution of the concept of state of emergency can be a clear dangerous direction, and this is what my fellow Member Bellozó, who was the lead speaker of the MSZP faction, referred to in the current legislation on violence as a criterion in the context of the state of emergency. In fact, the exception of this is about dilution and that two thirds of you can interpret it later, even through the adoption of additional legislation, what is the meaning of the subversive, what is considered to be a subversive in your understanding. So I think that in this package there are actually unnecessary and timeless proposals for the power interests of Fidesz. [[22.10]] Therefore, the negotiation of this proposal is absolutely unnecessary here in this House at this moment. And by the way, it is truly outrageous, because there are more important things, I consider it, to the Parliament and to all Members of Parliament; much more importantly, we could also discuss proposals that are important for defence, but we are not doing so, because we need to sit here on the ninth of the year's regular review of your Fundamental Law, the Fundamental Law, which you have declared to be granite-solid. I say to you that there can be only one right attitude on this proposal in this form for you: withdraw this proposal! Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-11-18-292	Thank you very much. The representative of Fidesz, Congressman Gábor Bányai, is next. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-293	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, It is too late, but there is a debate between us that needs to be discussed or discussed for as long as possible, but before I comment on the amendment of the basic law, I would like to... there is no longer Z. Kárpát, Dániel, but in his speech he cursed the system of EUR 800,000 awarded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Not only for the sake of the minutes, but I would like to tell everyone that in a hundred cases this aid was granted to Hungarian-owned companies more than 90 times. In my own constituency, only Hungarian-owned local companies have received this, and elsewhere I have seen this, so it is not going to foreign multinationals, it is going to be the Hungarian grant of EUR 800 thousand and roughly HUF 250-260-270 million. So I would ask you not to spread such news about it, because it is a great help to maintain jobs, to protect jobs and create new jobs, and also to bring back the Hungarian economy from the crisis caused by the pandemic, to which good news is that according to the last quarter figures, the Hungarian economy has grown almost as much as GDP has decreased, and the economy has also grown in the period after the second quarter. So, compared to what many of us have predicted here that the end of the world is coming, we are not there on the one hand, and on the other hand it is not 2008 but a much stronger legitimization, and let us say that there is a government for the country which has more for the country, which has not allowed the crisis, which has been mentioned here by several speakers, that we have left poverty and millions of people behind, hundreds of thousands of thousands of people, as said perhaps Szabó Timea, it was all lies, but we have been used to this. Perhaps it has also been said by Mr Cook, and here he is: he has practically abused our constituents. I have never opposed the defeat of 2002, nor in 2006 that I cursed the socialist or liberal voters that they won the election for the governments of that time. That's far from me. I don't qualify, I accept. It's hard to accept, but you digest it. [[To Dr. László Kács:]] But to say that our voters are one-by-one voters, dear Laci, allow me to say so now, in the minutes too, that is harsh. [[Dr. László Cook intervenes.]] So we shouldn't degrade each other's voters. I don't think it's right for a politician, it's even in a Facebook post, it's disgusting. [[Dr. László Kács and Attila Mesterházy intervene.]] But our voters don't usually read, they're not that interested in public life, that's not true. They're very interested. This one-by-one thing hurt me, and I'm saying it on behalf of millions of people. So please don't use this against each other to judge our voters. It's not worthy. That's how I try to live the hard way when it's just like that for an election. Besides, let us not forget that last year's election in Budapest, the local elections in the local government, the election in the capital, in any case, was given by the 105 thousand foreign voters to the current mayor. The MNB has mentioned how it manages, and the congressman has also brought that up. I looked at it: between 2002-2010, the MNB had no profits. In 2002-03 it had to be replaced, a capital increase had to be made for hundreds of billions of HUF, because things went so badly under the then socialist government, as the government lost to the MNB because of the floating exchange rate band of the forint. So you had to help him out. Then there was no profit, but we were already in recovery until 2006, supposedly; compared to where we sank, we know. We talked about the sale again. The debate yesterday afternoon has come up, and Attila Mesterházy may have brought up these issues. Indeed, 196 companies were released for potom money at tithes. That's the sale. If it's that we find partners from the East to shame from the East who invest [[Attila Mesterházy and Dr. László Kács intervene.]] In Hungary... Westerners come and invest in Hungary. What's wrong with that? Why is it wrong that Korea is now the main investor in Hungary after Germany? Why is that a crime? Most of us have Samsung's phone, our TV is too, most of the cars are Korean in Hungary; a significant part is Korean. What's wrong with that? The Chinese: I don't take it out he's gone Mr. Crusader, the Chinese railroad development, because we could take out what we're in. Otherwise, we could ask our French friends why they did not bring such a construction to Hungary. In 2002, Péter Medgyessy announced that the TGV would reach from Paris to Budapest and then Bucharest. I've wanted to travel on it ever since, because it would have been a good construction. They didn't arrive, they didn't come. What you're saying is that this is going to be a bad deal, we'll see. One thing is certain: nearly 40 percent of the cost of construction itself will return in the form of taxes during construction, so, if you take it this way, this is another construction. But why didn't it ever bother you when you're always being butchered and teborded here: all the entrepreneurs we have are winning 7 percent of the public procurement. Who of you hasn't been bothered by Strabag? It never bothered me. [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] Well, they'll win! But it doesn't bother you anymore. I'm sorry. Does it bother you? Well, he doesn't mind. The Swietelsky? It doesn't bother you. It's just that you're always disturbed by Hungarian-owned companies. It's me... I know, I understand, it's a very well-established formula, but let's tell the Hungarian people that very much of the public procurement is taken by Austrian German companies. Oh, there was more under socialist governments, so let's leave this question alone, and let's end this part, because that's not true. The sale was practically not done at our place, never forget that; and most of the time, we're running around on a 30-something phone or making phone calls, and Matáv was put there pretty cheaply for the benefit of the German state phone company. The sale was when these left-wing governments gave away all the Hungarian state infrastructure in essence. We have to go back, but it was just about the sale. We have to go back. Let's go back. They gave it to foreign, French, German, Italian state companies. [[Attila Mesterházy intervenes.]] It's the sale! [[Attila Mesterházy: Take it back!]] Let's buy it back, Mr. Congressman. You have to buy it back. A little more expensive than it was sold to them, unfortunately, but it's our destiny. But let's get back to the fundamental law amendment. The first part, after Mr Arató called us homophobic and racist, is racist, so let us be clear on who is what. [[Interventions in opposition benches.]] Please, the part of the history of humanity that took place in the Mediterranean region and in Europe has been better at this, the cultural circle that has developed here in the last 5 to 6 thousand years, since the history of these peoples was written, everyone knows that at the beginning of the main writing of this cultural circle, it is still in it on the given day of creation that God created man in his own image, made him a man and a woman. We were previously accused, from abroad, of putting God's name into the Constitution. In the Hungarian Constitution, Christian, Catholic, Reformed, whatever constitution we had made, although it would have been, only what the foreigners couldn't do, I took it with me to a foreign conference printed in three or four languages; Parliament gave me the small, hard-bonded booklets of the Constitution; I showed the French that it had been complained, but the Italians and the Germans also complained, and it was true that the name of God was in it. [[22.20]] Because the constitution begins with God, bless the Hungarian. And from this, your European representatives and our opponents have made such a sham campaign that, based on this, virtually only a nuclear attack has not been visualized on our heads, that we dared to put the name of God into it. Let's not forget, former French President Giscard d, Estaing fell out of some of the constitutionalization because he wanted to put in the texts referring to Christianity, where Europe's past came from. But this is not a Christian question, basically, when we say that this amendment to the Fundamental Law tells us who the mother and father are. But why tell him? So this is not evidence, as Congresswoman Varga-Damm has said, it could be written in another law, but, if you believe it, if you didn't and you didn't, Congressman Nacsa, you know that, and you don't deny it, it bothers you, too, because you're not made of that kind of wood either, which I know is the first lobby from overseas, and then you're back in Europe, and now this genderlobbi is so caught up in Europe. And this is not LGBTQ lobbies, because most of our fellow countrymen who love their own sex are not exhibitionists, they do not like to show themselves, they are not the majority on Budapest Pride, but most of them are foreign. I have a friend like that, and it's not good to talk about it, but they don't like the publicity. So it's not about them, it's not about the fundamental law amendment, it's about the same-sex relationships, it's about this lobby that's going to crush Europe's communities, and of course, of course, we'll be attacked from abroad as usual, from Western Europe in the first place, but it's the first step in stopping the genderlobbi. I wouldn't allow that either because of my youngest child, and fortunately, the greats already know what a tree is, that we begin to sensitize it with a shredded book, unfortunately many have bought it, or with any other writing, that this is, of course, the way it should be. Because the consequence of this will not be to assume that there will be more women or men who love their own sex in Parliament, there will be such a quota sooner or later, but what it will bring with it. And it's not about homosexuals, it's going to be a systematic downsizing of European culture. This has happened in the last millennia that European cultural peoples have been beaten up, and there is a sign of that. It's a step, it's a test. They are doomed to fail in Western Europe, as my niece, who lives in Sweden, tells me about the arrangement of the toilets there and how crazy it is there. But in all countries, it has become almost mandatory to take these decisions, not administrative, which have been suggested and forced by the genderlobby, and which now have a way of life. They're gonna force him on us, I'm sure. These decisions, with which you have now spewed on the European press, are more precisely the Members of the European Parliament, accusing the Prime Minister of Hungary of treason, but, of course, the Poles are being attacked in the same way, what is this veto about? It's about not being forced on us. We have no choice but to defend ourselves with such means. And believe me, this is the genderlobby, not the LGBTQ lobby, because I think it will only suffer later, because much worse things are going to happen in Europe, it is almost certain that if we continue to do so, so there is a high probability that this will happen, that they will destroy all of Europe's old gutters and bonds. Christian Europe, what we say, you are terrified of it, does not mean that you must become a Christian, an atheist, a leftist or a liberal, this is not what it is about, simply the roots of what it came from, through Plato, through Jesus Christ, any great European thinker who created this world, we look at the death of this if we do not start to stop it. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] But what I would like to say as a closing point, because everyone who spoke from the other side accused us of being infected by thousands of people and hundreds of people getting sick during the pandemic, and, on average, a hundred of our fellow citizens in our hospitals are dying, and we have our friends' mothers and fathers lying on a ventilator, so that they haven't even met anyone in the last few weeks, so the hell knows they've been infected, that these laws that the government brought in last week and before that time, they don't have to negotiate. But if Parliament didn't meet, because there wouldn't be anything to discuss, what would the Western European press be full of? By not working in the Hungarian Parliament, Viktor Orbán achieved what he wanted, he announced his dictatorship. If we introduce laws, of course, in the debate, it is an opportunity for everyone to comment today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. There's only one problem with these debates, and allow me, Congressman Szilágyi, the style, they say, is the man himself. I do not speak to you or any of my fellow Members in the same tone as you do to us, you, your party president. I think it's the splatter. I have listened to what Congressman Nacsa has said, not once has it been offensive to you, in the manner in which you have spoken. The other thing is, he insulted Jobbik, he told you his story, and it was true, but it wasn't for you, and you took it as a personal argument. The whole point is to work at the time of the pandemic. But if you say we don't have to work with any laws, then let's go as volunteers to any covid hospital, dress up in proper clothing, and volunteer to help with the work. [[György Szilágyi: Mr Lajos Rig! The president's ringing the bell.]] Okay, Lajos Rig can go in, because he has the opportunity as a health worker, he hasn't given up his job, it's easier for him. In closing, thanking you for your attention, I only ask you to think carefully, especially in the case of gender, how you think about our future, because I think that will depend on it, and not on national wealth and the transfer of public money or foundation assets, it will be more important for our future in the end. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-11-18-294	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome back to my fellow Members. The next speaker was Mr János Volner. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-11-18-295	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am most concerned with the current amendment of the basic law, which concerns family and family life, which is the most important, since the family is the national core unit on which we can build our future. I think it is very important to shed light on the background of what has been going on here in the last few hours, what gave the basis for the debate between the right and the left, if this division can be even valid for the parliamentary parties here. The left is in crisis at international level, because the former social layers on which he based his policy, the blue collar, i.e. the working layer, have disappeared practically in Western Europe, in the United States, in the developed world, have weakened by outsourcing production to China and the Far East. This group, as such, has been significantly reduced. The European Union is still present in Hungary and its peripheral states, but that is why left-wing politics have been eliminated, lost its social base and needed something to embrace. In the current amendment of the basic law, this new fight, which was fundamentally influenced by liberal interests, can be seen here incarnate. The Left has engaged in never-ending identity policy struggles for disadvantaged social groups, which he constantly believes to have an emancipational identity policy. I've listed some here as a reminder, including abused women, homosexuals, migrants, Black Lives Matter activists and similar social groups. They're running political campaigns for their own good. What we are seeing here in Parliament is that the right-wing MEPs are local, local, that is, if you look at the global level, they take a political stance along national interests and national interests. While left-wing representatives practically do nothing more than operate their own party within the framework of an international political franchise. They didn't come up with anything new. If you look at what was said in this House on this subject, in the fundamental amendment to the family law, there was nothing new on the part of the left-wing Members, there was nothing new, there was no one thought that would have been new, or it would not have fit perfectly into the international trend that is now unfolding in front of us. We must say, fellow Members, that they would like to impose on us a social model, the failure of which can cause anyone to face every day in television broadcasts dealing with Western Europe and North America. [[22.30]] They want to impose social models on us, which we can face every day, if we open the newspapers and see what is happening in the countries we have previously seen from Hungary and Eastern Europe as model countries. I think it is very important to say that when left-wing Members criticize the fundamental changes to the law concerning family status, they actually shut up, pervert and lie about Hungary starting a propaganda against homosexuals, even though the opposite is happening. Fellow Members! It is worth going to the European Commission's website, published on 12 November, a few days ago the European Commission's new strategy for homosexuals and people with various gender identity disorders. This provides for specific measures to be taken in the period 2020-25. At present, the international trend is to force these measures on Hungary within the framework of the rule of law procedures, and the leading, most powerful officials of the European Union prove this every day with their declarations. So this is about whether we are going ahead in Hungary with the amendment of the Fundamental Law to the dictatorships in Brussels, and we are ordering these perverted international aspirations to stop, or it will happen to us without any problems, because we have no legal protection against these efforts. What exactly is in this material? The European Commission has put forward a strategy for full equality of rights for LGBTQ groups. A strategy for full equality of rights, fellow Members. This means that if a couple of men and women could benefit from different tax benefits, homosexual couples, even married couples in Europe, could benefit from similar tax benefits, although, in other words, for normal couples in heterosexual relationships, this support serves obvious social policy objectives: the restoration of the demographic curve. It is very important that the aim of this strategy for homosexual groups presented by the European Commission is to eliminate discrimination and protect their human rights. Admittedly, this strategy aims to build inclusive societies across Europe and specifically what they are talking about: targeted legal and financial measures were envisaged a few days ago by the European Commission's working paper on this throughout Europe, throughout the European Union. You would punish the speech they consider to be homophobic, fellow Members. Anyone crying out for freedom of speech and condemning freedom of speech in Hungary, I would like to draw his attention once again: in the future, I would like to sanction the speech that the liberals of the European Union consider homophobic by criminal means throughout the European Union. Once again, the strategy for homosexuals presented a few days ago, on the 12th, clearly describes this, and rainbow families, in Hungarian, families where, let's say, two men raise a little boy, would put them under legal protection. The question is, why are left-wing Members not talking about this? Aren't we supposed to protect the Hungarian families, and we're not supposed to say that a family is made up of men and women, the father is a man, the mother is a woman, because there are such aspirations at international level? In particular, the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, who continuously represents this work in public, is Helena Dalli, the EU's Commissioner for Equality, once again, the very powerful politicians. And all he has said is that the rule of law mechanism currently on the agenda will make it possible not to receive EU funds in places where EU law is not respected, such as this LGBTQ strategy, which has now been adopted. Now, I protest with all my nerves that Europe, with the help of left-wing parties, is trying to make similar perverse changes in public law in Hungary, and I object to trying to eliminate family relations in this way, and of course I have nothing to hide in this matter. I can tell you very frankly, without having to fear the wrath of Ferenc Gyurcsány, as among others among the left-wing parties of the Parliament, that I do not consider it a good idea, and even a sin, if the state agrees to adopt a little boy to two homosexual men. I am convinced that this is not what serves the healthy physical and mental development of children. And I ask left-wing representatives not to act as outposts of homosexuals in Hungary, because this is not for the good of the country, but only for their own internationalist aspirations, by becoming the unscrupulous servers of the political aspirations of extremist homosexual groups. It is very important to break down the necessary foundations, it is very important to determine how far the limits of tolerance in Hungary extend. Homosexuality is everyone's private affair. I agree, of course, that no one can pursue these groups, but I also think it is very important that attempts to transform society must be clearly rejected, for the sake of all of us, in the defence of our nation, and put under fundamental law. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-11-18-296	Thank you very much, Congressman. The next speaker was Mr Szilágyi György from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-297	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We've been arguing for a long time, the saddest moment of this debate, by the way, has been a long time, but I'd like to relive it because it was a really sad event. This was Imre Vejkey's speech, as Imre Vejkey is one of the more normal Members, so it cannot be mentioned on the same level as Lörinc Nacsa. It was very sad for me that the Member was forced into an unworthy position by the NER and Viktor Orbán when he had to go up to the pulpit and read lies there. But this, I suppose, is part of what is specific to your system. Then what I would like to talk about and respond to was István Hollik's speech. Congressman Nacsa, did you say to Szabó Timea that he ran away, that I told István Hollik that I wanted to answer his speech, that he should wait; that he, since it was men, ran away masculinely, or that the match might have been more important to him than to discuss here, but I suppose he left Congressman Nacsa here. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: We won!]] The one who just took off the mask and yelled at me. Answer my question, I'll ask you a simple question. Please, if you have the opportunity, or if you can answer it, answer it. The question is very simple, Congressman, because here again István Hollik began to point back and forth and everything. György Soros was the main topic again. I'd like to ask you to tell me, please, by name, you know who the opposition was. Soros Scholarships. Give me the names. I'm telling you who they are in your benches are Soros Scholarships, and then we can create a debate about who Soros paid off or who he didn't pay off. So you're welcome to stand up and tell me who in the opposition were Soros Scholarships, I'm telling you who they were at the Fidesz. Okay? Only a few, because it would be difficult to list them all: Viktor Orbán, you know your Prime Minister; László Kövér, you know, the Speaker; József Szájer, István Stumpf, Tamás Deutsch, Árpád Habony, Zoltán Kovács. You don't have to tell me any more about it, do you? [[22.40]] Just so you know what it meant at the time, let's say we take Viktor Orbán, your prime minister, who was a member of the Central European Research Group with the support of the Soros Foundation. Then, with the support of George Soros, he also studied the history of English liberal philosophy in Oxford. Then, with the support of George Soros, he became Vice President of the Liberal International. These are the facts, Congressman. Now you will list how many Soros Scholarships have been found in the ranks of the opposition when they are in office! I'll give you another piece of data. Okay? At today's value, Fidesz received HUF 125 million from György Soros, so György Soros also supported Fidesz. Just tell me which party he was supporting. Those are the facts. I guess you'll be able to answer that, to the best of your knowledge. The other is that they talk about the protection of families here, Mónika Dunai said that children also have rights. And then it came to mind, by the way, the former Vice Mayor of Fidesz, Tivadar Fohsz, who, as far as I know, is still a member of Fidesz, and who was involved in a pedophile scandal. You know, it shouldn't be protecting families and children because it's important to protect children, not by saying that the mother is a woman and the father is a man. Do you know what they could do to protect families? If they chased the pedophiles out of your ranks, if they chased you out of Fidesz-KDNP... [[Dr. Pál Völner intervenes.]] Congressman, should I list it? Should I list the Kaletas? You want me to list the Tivadars? You want to tell me more about the names? Well, you know exactly who you're protecting all the time. That's how we should start protecting families. Then it's important to protect families, but it's not a solution to say that the mother is a woman and the father is a man. In fact, even adding that the stork isn't bringing the baby is not the answer, because that can be added. Mr. Congressman, this is the problem that you are trying to throw in these rubber bones and say that there are attacks on the evidence, said Mónika Dunai in his speech as general speaker. But it is okay for you to say that there are attacks on the evidence and that this must be enshrined in the Fundamental Law, then we thought that we would help you and my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre, and that we would put forward an amendment to what else might need to be changed. We have also tabled this amendment. We'd like to give Fidesz a few more ideas to carve a granite-solid constitution instead of an epidemiology defense. If they can no longer handle the epidemic, and it seems that they have chosen the path to replace it with some exciting things in the Fundamental Law, in case, in the meantime, for example, the death data, the number of infected people or the decaying health problem, the condition that the mother is a woman and the father is a man, according to Fidesz, is that some people have a tendency to question it recently. As a good patriot, my colleague Gyüre and I believe that it is our duty to indicate a few more anomalies so that during the epidemic some people try to spread something completely different from the character of the Hungarian nation in our country. That is why we ask Viktor Orbán and Judit Varga to take the following into account, and we also ask you, Mr State Secretary, to consider our proposal, to consider our amendment. Firstly, some Internet forums have comments that transport rules do not have to be complied with. We ask the Prime Minister to put it in the Fundamental Law: the red light must stop, and the green one can start. It could be a foundation. The camp of flatlanders is growing. We think it would be dangerous for Hungary to remain without constitutional protection against such doctrines. We ask Prime Minister to put it in the Fundamental Law: the Earth is round. We hear a lot of people making jokes about Muller Cecília saying that if someone takes their child to graduate, then the driver in the car should sit in the front seat and the child in the back. We don't think we should joke about that, because driving from the backseat is very dangerous. Put in the constitution that the driver is sitting in the front of the car; that would be important. Some music enthusiasts are expressing views of the world's order that what's out there is inside what's up there. [[Defiance from opposition ranks.]] [[Defiance from opposition ranks.]] We think it's dangerous. Therefore, it is important to state in the Fundamental Law that what is out there is out there, what is in there, what is in there, what is up there, and what is down there, not the other way around. (Development from opposition lines. ) So please consider this, too, so that you may accept it. We have seen in several places in recent years that some people are planning to borrow dogs from their neighbors in order to stay on the street after 8 p.m. for walking. Others would like to walk other kinds of animals under cover of the night. [[Defiance from opposition ranks.]] This is the circumvention of Mr. Prime Minister's wise decree, so there is no question that it requires immediate constitutional settlement. First, the dog is neither a cat nor a ferret. The dog can only be a dog, and the dog's owner is the owner of the animal, not its neighbor. We hope that we will help Viktor Orbán in his epidemiology struggle with our proposals, because I believe that today, in this difficult situation, and I say this with all seriousness, when the Hungarian people, the Hungarian health workers and doctors struggle every day to survive in this country, to lose as few people as possible in the epidemic situation, we should not be discussing such laws, where you intend to include theft and the preservation of stolen money in the Fundamental Law, but should deal with all your nerves to help the Hungarian people in the epidemic situation, help people survive this situation, not only in health, but also economically, so that they do not abandon families, as they did in the first wave. We wish you a very good job and not for such legislative proposals. I would also ask that our amendments be taken into account. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre applauds.]]
u2020-11-18-298	A two-minute speech will be held by Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa. Here you go.
u2020-11-18-299	Thank you, Mr. President. I understand that Congressman Szilágyi has been more tense since we banned gambling machines, so his family can't make a deal out of it. [[Defiance from opposition ranks. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It's so worn out! The president's ringing the bell.]] Mr. President, you're talking about a turnaround, a Liberal International, a Soros Scholarship. But, Congressman, you've spent a year trying to turn Nazi into a communist, by the way. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Oops!]] You wanted to list Jewish representatives in Parliament! You spit in shoes on the Danube! You were the party that talked about the pensioners running out of their mouths. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's not true!]] You were the party whose member spoke of Hungarians across the border in such a way that they could be bribed and bought with glass beads! Well, you've been through all this! And you replaced the guard vest with a rainbow flag. Well, what do you think, fellow Members? You guys talk about turning around when you're doing these things? You were the Member of Parliament when a proposal for castration was submitted to the House when a proposal for a re-education camp was submitted to this House here in Parliament. Do you remember this time, Congressman Szilágyi? You signed these, supported them at the faction meeting. You have put forward such proposals. Well, what are you talking about, Your Honour? I understand that he started attacking the government when gambling machines were banned, so that Hungarian people's hard earned money would not be taken away by gambling organizers. I understand that you were nervous at the time, and you've been so tense ever since. But don't you tell us about turning around here when you wanted to list Jewish representatives here, and then you joined up with the left, because the left has begun to legitimize racism and anti-Semitism in your person! Well, you started an anti-Semitic man even in the last election. What are you talking about, Your Honour?
u2020-11-18-300	Thank you very much. Congressman György Szilágyi, please.
u2020-11-18-301	I remember the words of Gábor Bányai, who talked about style, but he's been gone ever since. So, I think that one of the most spineless, lying Members of the Parliament should not call me a Nazi. So don't call me... [[The president's gonna turn the mike off.]]
u2020-11-18-302	Congressman, I'm cutting you off, I'm warning you, and I'm disbarring you from today's session. Congressman, you've insulted your fellow Member... [[György Szilágyi: This is an example of impartial sitting! Congratulations.]] In this regard, ... Congressman, you have the opportunity to deal with my seat style... I locked you out of today's session. [[György Szilágyi: This is an example of impartial sitting! Congratulations, Mr. President.]] It's an unbiased meeting, Congressman. The person who insults his fellow Member in this way is incompetent to take the floor in this House. [[György Szilágyi: He called me Nazi and didn't say anything! He called me a Nazi and didn't tell me!]] Congressman, yell out there. There! You're not allowed to do this here anymore. Out there, outside! [[György Szilágyi: Yes, you can! I'll just stay here. Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] The next two-minute comment is Congressman Gergely Arató. [[22.50]]
u2020-11-18-303	I would like to ask Congressman Nacsa, who has shared his phobias about Jobbik fifteen times this evening, that, if he feels the need for this kind of processing work, there is no reason for it, he has not been accepted at the time, or I do not know. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre laughs.]] What is your problem with this, you couldn't afford the uniform, so I'd like to ask you to decide one thing, because in turn, where is your problem with Jobbik, that you used to be a Hungarian Guardian, an extremist party, where your problem is that you're not now, and you're crying back the old Jobbik, you've said on many occasions that Jobbik's principles used to be, which would you like, I'd like to ask. Would you like the Jobbik that used to be, or the one that's now? 'Cause you can't have trouble with Jobbik at the same time that he used to be an extremist, and the problem with him is that he's not an extremist anymore. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] Because he complained about this on several occasions, however, what a scandal it is that Jobbik is no longer an extremist party, no longer has its principles. By the way, if that is your absence, then fortunately, our country is at your disposal, so you can join us there, just make your decision, Congressman. Or, if you can't decide, don't share this dilemma with us in fifteen two-minute comments, otherwise absolutely out of line with what is the subject of this debate and what we are talking about right now.
u2020-11-18-304	Thank you very much, Congressman. It is up to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm to make a proper speech. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-11-18-305	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, There are still a few other thoughts that I have had about the last few hours, particularly in relation to the pro-government speakers. Well, first of all, I wouldn't want to be a granite dealer today. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre laughs.]] Because if citizens see the material as soft and bendable as our Fundamental Law confirms it in them, I think that all granite dealers will be destroyed, because people are afraid that the granite that you can get in Hungary is as bendable and flexible as our granite-solid Fundamental Law. We are constantly hearing lectures about patriotism and the future generation and the nation-conscious education of the future generation, but, you know, let me say one thing so modestly: it is quite peculiar that, thirty years after the change of regime, Romania was able to declare our greatest, most mournful, national tragedy, Trianon, our holiday day. You know whose big failure this is? The failure of your foreign affairs and diplomatic work. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: That's right!]] In a hundred years, neither under the communist regime nor after, under the extremist Romanian governments, none of them dared to create this disgrace, desecrating the greatest tragedy of our national brothers; and you, of course, have commented on one or two of Potápi's whining texts, but practically nothing in the world has been done in addition to their great nation-consciousness and nation-defensed mentality to achieve that in the Romanians. So we can legislate and type in such protection systems and protection systems and family protection and child protection, when in everyday life, the most fundamental interests of our nation, the one that has left us mutilated, and at least ten generations will suffer the severed roots that were pulled out of our nation's body a hundred years ago, so that the Romanians can punch us in the face like this. Now, that's your failure. And you know what else I'd say to you? How is it possible that the Romanians wanted this to be a freak for us, because they can see how hypocritically you are doing your job both in internal politics and in foreign policy. All I'm bringing here is a migrant settlement bond, just this double thing, just this double thing. They practically fought with the whole world, caused domestic political confusion and almost a crisis, while 22,000 Islamic people could come in here as if they were born here just because they paid. And then they made it to their political opponent to support migration, just because he made it a condition, not even for money. And then tell me, honourable pro-government, now it's just a piece of my fellow Member [[Lőrinc Nacsa, walking behind the benches, points to Dr. Pál Völner.]] The fact that you have it, that when you talk about the interests of the nation, you can conclude the agreement with any multinational that eviscerates the members of our nation with penny wages, the person who produces the same value as the people working at the Western European parent company, and you can do that because you allow him to do so because you sell our members of our nation for pennies on the basis of strategic partnership agreements. Then tell me where your great nation-consciousness is in this situation and your great protective net for the members of the Hungarian nation! He preaches about Christianity, but he has not yet been able to get a decent wage for a decent job. I hear the great Christian principles every day, but you can tolerate the retirement of a cleaning lady after 40 years of work, can't you? Where do we know that's enough to starve to death? So, please, please, remove the double standards from your souls, because they won't be credible until then. They may always be able to strengthen faith and attachment to your person and your principles in their own polling base, but believe me, every day, one more child will be 18 and one day, every blessed day, and the new generation will not be able to endure it, because the new generation is rational, because the new generation will grow up in a world where unfortunately, with technical progress, you have lost a lot of mental education, and not because parents do not love their children, but because parents also live a life full of accelerated, technical means, and unfortunately, the soul is often lost. And if the new generation grows up on a rational basis, then who will laugh at you, because you do not have any messages for the new generation to catch them. Because I apologize now, my dear colleague Lőrinc Nacsa, do not make yourself believe that these Christian-spoken, psychic, self-righteous expressions reach any young person today; they laugh at themselves. I'll tell you something. Two weeks ago or a few weeks ago, there was a very kind, highly respected and very fond of me in the House, and he told me that there were high school students here, and they were watching us, and the teacher said that he wouldn't bring any more children here. And I am sure that not only the style and use of the opposition, but also the language of the pro-government representatives, have justified this by saying that they will stay away, so we are guilty together, and we are responsible together. And believe me, ladies and gentlemen, you are not in the ranks of the opposition, there is not one of the right-wing opposition representatives who does not have the national interest most important. You don't take away the loneliness of patriotism. Don't take over patriotism. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] For now, I think in the lines around me, there are more of them who, when they pass through the Hegyeshalom, tears come out of their eyes. I think that there are more of us who, when the Anthem speaks, cannot cry, only we cannot talk about it, because we feel it in our souls, we do not need to justify it, we do not need to search for a certificate, we do not need to explain, we do not need to receive confirmation from the people, that you can see how much we love our country. We love our country because we were born that way, we were born Hungarian, and for us, this land is the most important thing in the world, and we want to protect it, but not in a hypocritical way, and not in lies, not in fundamental law manipulation, and not by eliminating public money, and not by cementing wealth saving organizations, and not by deceiving an entire profession! [[23.00]] They brought their great nation-consciousness to the health bill by raising the salary for certain health workers, because not everyone, and then they tell you to come, I'm gonna put a leash on you to narrow your mobility. Then, of course, they rushed when they heard that 70 percent wouldn't sign the new contract. If you're talking about protecting the nation and the future generation, can't you just act like one? Believe me, the opposition representative doesn't dream of contradicting me every day. You can't believe how happy I am when I see on the display a law that every vote is yes, zero no and zero abstention. You don't believe how much we appreciate it, because at least there are some things in which there is a national consensus, in which we don't argue. Let them do one thing: put in place rules that man has the greatest heart to vote for, and it can be said that at least in matters of the nation's most important values and most important future survival, the ideas and intentions of the governing party and of the opposition are fully consistent. And let me say one more thing, my fellow pro-government Members. The simple voter doesn't like this fight. For example, you on Facebook only meet the commentators who are strong, harsh advocates of one of the camps. But we don't see those people because they don't write, and they don't want at least basic issues to stop fighting. Let's just argue in small matters that we approach or approach certain procedures from here. Either this is how the procedure begins in an administrative procedure, or it begins. But in what is in our nation's interest, and why we must be here in this House to do our job. Don't force us to express such terrible opposition and opposition, because believe me that someone who is an opposition representative is not the most important elixir of the life, but wants him to leave this House every day doing something good for his people. And that can only be done with positive things, because there is nothing of the sex yet. Nothing of the gender has yet been created. The most I can do is stop a process of gender, which I can't control to go in the right or wrong direction. So, with great respect, your highly self-respect, your grandeur, your arrogance, your attitude towards superiority, please begin, if for no other reason, by strip down in their humility over the plague, and come in as modest politicians who truly represent the interests of the nation, not the qualification, the humiliation and abuse of others, but the means of intelligent persuasion. Because I think you can convince everyone of the good. There's no one who's not affected. Thank you very much.
u2020-11-18-306	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I would like to ask my fellow Members that someone else would like to speak in the debate. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The general debate is closed. I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, as rapporteur, that he wishes to respond to what was said in the debate. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Yes.]] Here you go. Your timeframe is 30 minutes, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-11-18-307	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A lot has been said this evening, perhaps more that was not about the Fundamental Law. I was very pleased that some of my fellow Members were able to speak calmly about the law. Thank you for your speech to the woman who spoke about nationality, who was able to touch fields outside of politics. Congressman János Volner summarized the EU context, so I will not bother the people present. My fellow Member, Gábor Bányai, was able to bring forward the kind of commitment that underpins the merits of this amendment and the commitment that the governing parties would definitely want to protect traditional values against the new progressive, progressive and I do not know why, in contrast to the efforts to destroy the traditional cultural circle. So it is not a matter of conservative values attacking various minorities. My fellow bellman mentioned that the proposal was homophobic and racist. The only thing he owes me is where he's homophobic and where he's racist. My fellow Member Csaba Gyüre also touched on the main points of the Fundamental Law. The public-interest trustee for public purposes was one of the topics that will be regulated by a fundamental law, about which a debate developed. It was an interesting approach, by the way, when left-wing representatives challenged the fact that MOL and other shares were the base for the independence that would ensure the future of these preferably autonomous educational institutions. I'm sure what hurts them is that if MOL comes into this circle, they won't be able to sell the shares again like they did before, which we had to buy back from the Russians after 2010. You should think about that. The other part of the matter, when they also talked about public money treatment, was that in the eight years when they were governed, or even the previous four years, during the Horn government, when the energy sector was sold, and the service sectors that were in a monopoly position left hundreds of billions of dollars of obligations with PPP contracts, and then the debt was raised; they wanted to sell our drinking water, the soil, they wanted to release the GMO, they wanted to privatise health. And when they talk about violence, 2006 always flashes before our eyes how they dealt with it. They are telling us about crisis management when, in 2008-2009, they took away their 13th month allowance from the worst pensioners and civil servants in the crisis. For them, this is crisis management, and it is less than 200 billion forints that have been paid during the spring period. They compare the entrepreneurial fees received by Hungarian entrepreneurs for work carried out on a virtually contractual basis with the free benefits. So we have encountered a series of slides, whether or not they have substantially affected these changes to the Fundamental Law. I would not say that there are fundamental problems with concepts, as the Fundamental Law was regularly referred to as the law, which may be understandable in the law stream, but it would require a little more professionalism to respect the Fundamental Law when we argue about it. Some complained of the Minister's absence. Madam Secretary, you've come in from your day-to-day work, giving the House the respect that you can at least tell us your exposure. I think the lack of knowledge of the facts does not excuse the accusation of malice, it is not asking questions, but simply making statements. Pandemic. Several Members have said why they are in front of this House now. We must always repeat it because they do not know it, because these speeches occur more than once in the same Member. Technically, by transferring the burden of defence to the government by declaring an emergency, operational measures are there. The question has been asked how many lives have been saved by Parliament today, or by us, Members. No, people's lives are saved by doctors, nurses working there, paramedics. So let's not confuse the concepts. What we have to do is give the government the necessary frameworks, the government provides financial resources, protective equipment, the ventilators that were missed so much in the spring, and then they said it was a lot. I see that this debate stands a little bit, and we do not know what the opposition is thinking about it right now. Here is my fellow Member, Arató, who wanted to make it a kind of religious obligation that Christian culture should provide education for young people and children. That's not what that means. This means that we live in a cultural circle, and that education and education appropriate to this culture must be provided by the state. [[23.10]] This is not the prohibition of others raising their children differently; it is, I think, perhaps, the Hindus. So it's not anyone, it's just not a fee, it's just that we want to protect this culture circle. We have also received criticism from there on how to deal with the current situation. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, after the 2008 crisis, 3.6 million people worked in Hungary, and now, despite the crisis, 4.5 million people are working. It's a pretty strong difference if you compare the 12-percent unemployment rate to the 4-percent. I think this debate should not begin until we reach your negative peaks. The comments made on the law on justice were made by Congresswoman Timea Szabó, who was not here at yesterday's parliamentary debate. So it's a little weird for me, too, that if you're so interested in it and we discussed it there, then why bring it up the next day in the debate on another proposal. There are many things that you can agree with Mrs Dóra Dúró on when he spoke here about the protection of children and the protection of families. Although he also said that the NKA had a supported book, he must have challenged the author. There is no censorship and there is no index in Hungary, so it should be noted that there is a kind of pluralism. It also shows, if, let us say, my fellow Members personally have said that they disapprove of the fact that such support could have been given, but it is also true that politicians do not decide on these issues. Obviously, we are not happy about it, but this at the same time confirms that the support system itself leaves virtually other sounds to be heard. Mr. Dániel Z. Kárpát again came up with the question of the bank executions with his eternal charade. We mentioned earlier that you have a better-looking president of Vácott called Zsolt Fehér, who is leading the municipal committee in charge of evictions against tenants living in municipal housing. Perhaps we should discuss this with him a little bit, because we do not understand this phenomenon at the moment. We are not ordered by politicians, the cases that take place, on the basis of the decision of the courts or on the basis of notary documents, by reason of the courts' availability, are extended by means of legal remedies to the stage that the real estate may then be emptied. And then another slide, which may have been Attila Mesterházy, but if it wasn't him, I'd follow him, so he talked about four thousand evictions, that they wouldn't do it with police aid, it could be László Szakács, I'm sorry, the two of them. So we keep separate statistics on the number of evictions, some of them occur each year when armpower is used. These may usually be corporate apartments, so the apartment has everything in it, it also includes what they practically didn't even move into, it's not finished, they moved out of it voluntarily, they got a replacement, some have more apartments, and that's how it's done. And you guys always want to wash it together, because if the cops were constantly taking care of the big families and putting them out on the street, saving them from ignoring the social network that is working, so that the protection and housing of these children, if any, can be guaranteed even if the family is in such a situation. The aid of EUR 800 thousand has been raised. I saw in my constituency that practically the companies that received them were serious businesses that managed to keep their employees so that they could make investments, so that when the pandemic was over they could be even more present on the market. I would add that these companies have to produce and invest the other 50 percent, so this is a serious economic development programme. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély talked about the horrors of the last ten years and where the nation is going. My fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, has also replied to these questions, so that poverty has been reduced to one third. But if we look at his actions, for example, between 2002 and 2010, their actions in relation to dual citizenship, or in fact the economic fall in which they pushed the country, then I can only say that these criticisms can be rejected at the same time. Attila Mesterházy challenged the presence. On their part yesterday, it was said that Parliament's regulations also dictate that the speaker may be in the Chamber, and otherwise the fact that the factions provide as little presence as possible is precisely because there is an epidemic. Dániel Z. Kárpát also talked about migration issues, which Andrea Varga-Damm mentioned. Technically, in the amendment to the basic law, as my fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacs, mentioned, Jobbik and I had a text negotiated, and they backed out of it at the last minute when there were no two thirds of the governing parties. In 2018, when we had two thirds again, they bent and voted for it, even though the situation did not change at all. Don't ask us to be principled when we're dealing with cases like this. Not to mention saying one case when, let's say, people who can travel through Hungary under an obligation of establishment committed a terrorist act, committed a crime [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Let's wait and see.]] And the other is that we refuse to do so, so on the one hand, we have a national security investigation, and you know it. And the other part is that they make it look like it was about accepting some Muslim crowd, even though it wasn't on religious grounds, but it was practically wealthy people who invested their money here that could get that kind of judgment. At Attila Mesterházy, the most active member of the governing parties, Lőrinc Nacsa, said that every election is a lot of opportunities. So we always go to him when the opposition here sets up a narrative that if the governing parties win, they cheated, but if they achieved results in the municipal elections, it didn't even occur to them that they might have cheated that they had won. So that's a weird approach to things. What could be at risk, what they're talking about, that after the election, Attila Mesterházy demands normality and so forth. Think about how privatisation was pushed up after 2002 and how the family support system, home-building subsidies, was abolished. So that's what they should be thinking about when they criticize us in the current situation. Overall, that is all I wanted to say, because there has been a lot of talk in the debate. Thank you very much for your attention, and I ask this House to support the amendment of the basic law. Thank you. [[Nacha Lawrence applauds.]]
u2020-11-18-308	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Fellow Members! The amendments may be submitted at 16:00 p.m. on Thursday. There will now be no post-meeting speeches because they have been withdrawn in the meantime. So I thank you for your work, the Parliament will resume its session at 8:30 a.m. Meeting's closed. I wish you all good night and a happy return home.
