u2020-04-27-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you. Please take your seats. Dear Parliament, The 17th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that István Simicskó and notaries László Lukács will be here to help me. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work today. Dear House, We will begin our work today with speeches before the agenda, after which, for two hours, we will have a consolidated debate on the political declaration on the hour of immediate questions and answers, and then on the resupposing of the Hungarian people's representation system thirty years ago, and then we will complete Parliament's meeting with speeches after the agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Government today, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, has applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-04-27-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Once again, a week has passed since I was able to inform you here in Parliament about the international aspects of the pandemic, so allow me to do this again. In international political life, the news is all about how Europe and even some countries of the world come back from the former restrictive measures, in Hungarian, about how they relax. The debate on this, I think, will continue for a long time, one thing we can be pretty sure about is that the more restrictive measures are, the slower the virus spreads, and unfortunately this is also true in the other direction, because there is now a clear consensus between scientists that the rate of spread depends on the number and intensity of human contact. Since I last informed you about the purchase of medical protection equipment here, we have transported 20 aircraft from China and 5 trucks from other airports in Europe to Budapest. If at any time, it will now be of particular importance, in the light of the above-mentioned debates, for the preparedness of healthcare systems and the purchase of special protection equipment. I respectfully inform you that 9 million 586 thousand surgical masks have arrived in Hungary in the last week, and there are 234 600 masks that allow a higher level of protection, with a total of 9,820,600 masks arriving in Hungary last week. Overall, since the outbreak of the pandemic, 86 247 290 masks have been imported [[Lajos Korózs laughs loudly.]] This helps to ensure the success of health protection. I also respectfully inform my fellow Members that we still have a contract for 62 500 150 masks. I would also like to inform my fellow Members that, in terms of protective equipment, i.e. isolation cloaks, caps, gloves, face protectors, we have received 20 096 845 products in the last week alone, so that so far a total of 51 498 105 special protective equipment has arrived, and we still have 8 086 991 units under contract. I would also like to inform you that we have been able to import 215 ventilators in the last week, and that we have also begun the delivery of the equipment needed to operate the ventilator, including 900 patient monitoring monitors, 120 central monitors and other devices. Here in Parliament, we hear the importance of tests from week to week. Tests continue to be used according to WHO regulations, and in order to do so in the future, we have imported 1 010 112 tests in the last week, and we still have a contract for 1 994 137. I would also like to inform you that, in the last week, two weeks ago, 400 thousand medicines called Favipiravir have arrived, after the purchase, we have contracted to purchase another 400 thousand in China. The air bridge between China and Hungary is therefore functioning well, the deliveries from the Chinese cities are continuous, and we thank the Chinese as well as the Kazakhs and Azerbaijani, who provide the possibility of technical landings in the case of shipments to Budapest. And, of course, after the pandemic, it will also be necessary to draw conclusions, but we can certainly see that such a lesson will certainly be that it is not right, in fact, to have a complete continent in a strategic sector at the mercy of an external factor; as we will also have to consider, that the development of an air freight capacity is clearly contributing to the power of a state. I also respectfully inform you that last week we received 110,000 masks as a donation and, at the request of the Holy See, we delivered 50,000 masks to the Vatican to protect the health of the elderly fathers and to those serving in the German-Hungarian College of the Pope. I can inform and assure my fellow Members that continuous deliveries will continue to ensure continuous care, since all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians, so all Hungarians can count on us at the border and across borders. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-2	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, It is possible for each faction to respond in two minutes. First up is Congressman Bence Tordai, from the Dialogue Group. [[Szabó Timea: That is before the agenda, Mr President.]] I'm sorry. I've got a list upstairs, and I'm making progress. They took it off now. No one seems to have applied for a speech. Mr. Szabó Timea, you're welcome.
u2020-04-27-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It seems that only two people do not like to go to Parliament now from the government since the outbreak of the epidemic, this is the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health. Viktor Orbán and Miklós Kásler know precisely that the disease management has been screwed up, and they do not have the guts to give us an account of their actions, Viktor Orbán has not been here for five weeks. [[Noise in the ranks of the governing parties.]] Mr. Inister, you believe that the campaign of hatred against me is forcing me to back down; I see that many people were surprised to hear me speak here. I have some bad news. The fact that I've been made an enemy shows that you're very disturbed by the fact that in the Dialogue we don't accept the lying explanations given by the government [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Noise.]] And it bothers you that we're dealing with people's real problems. Do you know what the real problem is, Minister? The fact that you evacuated the 30,000 beds and sent people to their deaths. Athina Németh, a volunteer paramedic, recently reported that 9 of the 10 patients she cared for had died. [[11.10]] One of them had a fresh and open abdominal wound and was discharged from the hospital. Many patients with cancer had no medication, no infusions, no painkillers at home. One patient was led out with a rectum bag, neither he nor the relatives were informed. These people, my fellow Members, are dead. They were mothers, fathers, grandfathers, grandmothers, and friends. Who's responsible for this? The truth is that mistakes and tragedies are being made, and Viktor Orbán and Miklós Kásler are literally sending people to their deaths, unfortunately. There is another question, Minister. Now we're up to 86 million masks. Where are these masks? A few days ago, the head of the intensive care unit at the Kiskunhalas CDC told the press in a sewn home mask. I can only hope that by the time the patients arrive at this hospital, the doctors will have the proper protective equipment. Enough of your bullshit, deal with the real problems, and give me answers, because tens of thousands of people are in danger. Thank you.
u2020-04-27-4	Thank you very much, Madam Group leader. Mr Bertalan Tóth of the MSZP Group came forward. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-04-27-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I feel a little bit like a moderate bad Brazilian soap opera, because week after week we look forward to the next part in case there's a turnaround. But we're always waiting for this turn of events, which is why I personally don't watch shows like this. But it's not a series, it's real life, it's real life. You tell us how much you've got, and we see how much is in the warehouses, and we don't know when, for example, these protective equipment will reach hospitals, when they will reach the nursing homes, when they will reach the servants in the front, or when they will reach the people. Now the profession says that masking is recommended, and it would be good for everyone to wear masks. Then I ask you to send masks to all Hungarian citizens in an envelope instead of national consultation. The Hungarian Academy of Sciences recommends a wide range of testing, so we recommend that mass testing be started. We recommend putting together a protective package for older people over 65 with disinfectants, masks and protective gloves, because, as I have said several times, I can see with my own eyes that they do not have such tools. Help the relatives of the patients sent home by extending the care fee, and give more money to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, extend the search time to 9 months, and give a net HUF 100,000 so that people can live. I ask you with respect to these answers, let us have a turn in the ministerial report, at least next week let us learn more about the fact that this commendable acquisition of assets will actually go where it is needed, and government measures will indeed save people's lives, health and livelihoods, because we do not see it yet. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-27-6	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP, asked for the floor. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-7	[[The congressman's mic isn't working.]] Thank you for the opportunity. Mr President, Dear Parliament, [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: We can't hear you! The congressman will adjust his microphone.]] That's good. Looks like it. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The microphone has been switched to Ecomode!]]
u2020-04-27-8	I'll have to reschedule the faction leader's time. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-04-27-9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Minister, for this information, and obviously these procurements are very important, and thank you again, again this week, for everyone who is involved in this delivery. At the same time, as I said last week, the issues relating to distribution within the country are legitimate. Indeed, there are millions of protective equipments now, but we keep hearing the signals on a daily basis that they don't get everywhere they need to be. Therefore, I would like to ask the government not to communicate next week and not to solve the problems next week, but to inform the Hungarian public about how they can improve the distribution of the acquired assets in some forum today. He said, Minister, that there is a consensus on how the situation is pressing. Obviously, there are economic problems, the protection of human life is the first, and the increase in contact numbers increases the speed of the virus's spread. There is also consensus in that, and your fellow minister has already acknowledged that this economic crisis will be extremely brutal and profound, and we are all experiencing its unfolding. Mihály Varga's fellow minister said that the prospects are much worse than what the government thought a few weeks ago. Compared to this, we know that according to official statistics, 50,000 to 60,000 people lost their jobs. We know that reality is much sadder than that, because a lot of people, especially in rural areas, are in a position to live on occasion, they are among the first to lose their income, their livelihood, and they are obviously not included in these official statistics. That's exactly what the government doesn't care about. Therefore, it does not wish to face this question by not providing help to those who are in the most difficult situation, who have lost their income, who have lost their livelihood. Minister, you are going to spend 200-300 billion forints on a wage supplement, and this is what the government intends to do, compared with the development of the Budapest-Belgrád railway line, for example, 1000 billion. When the government is willing to face the problem of a deep social crisis and finally give them help instead of visual investment [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The railway is a visual investment?]] who have been in the most difficult situation here since the outbreak of the crisis? Thank you very much.
u2020-04-27-10	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Mr László Varju is coming from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-04-27-11	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I was happy to see it on one of the television channels, and I heard it when you announced that you were going to give me information from week to week, but this announcement in itself seems to be becoming quite ridiculous. A lot of masks, a lot of protective equipment, and if I remember correctly, you said 286 respirators, Minister. I suggest one more thing: get the government a ventilator. It's necessary, because otherwise, the bullshit you're doing needs to be finished. Why do I say that? I'll give you one example, Minister. You were just talking about more than a million-dollar test numbers. [[Peter Szijjártó: That's right!]] That's how much they brought into the country. Compared to that, you're on the other side of this communication saying that 60,000 tests have been used. If a person needs to be tested three to four times, then you've done the test on a total of 15,000 people, and in the meantime, they're collecting this hundreds of thousands and even millions of numbers of tests for themselves somewhere. Dear Minister, Well, then you're lying, or you're not telling me what's real, what's real, what's a viral epidemic, and I think we should report it to you, too. So I call on you to report to me immediately on the exact situation, start testing, because of the situation you have created in the nursing home without testing. [[Rushing from the pro-government benches. Csaba Dömötör: What? Dr. Bence Rétvári: Gergely Christmas?]] Many people are still in danger today, even dying. And I have not yet talked about what my fellow Member has said about the death of people who have been removed from the hospital on your conscience because they are not doing everything they can to save them. That's something someone should speak up and report on. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Sit down!]] Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2020-04-27-12	Thank you very much, Congressman. My fellow Members, please always pay attention to who has the floor. You have the word I give the floor to, and the rest of you, please acknowledge that. From the Fidesz Group, Mr Zsolt Németh is next. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-04-27-13	Mr President, Dear Minister, Dear House, I would like to emphasise in the voice of sobriety that we thank you very much, Minister, for the information. Indeed, a very important dimension is the fact that Europe, the international community and international cooperation are also important in the process of mitigation. The Vatican relief shipment, I think, has a very significant symbolic significance, as well as the fact that Hungary cares about its neighbourhood, the eastern neighbourhood, the Balkan neighbourhood, neighbouring countries, and also cares about Hungarians across the border. I believe that these cooperations will pay in the long term when there is a great need for them. But in the short term, even when we talk about relaxation, the issue of relaxation, regional cooperation is inevitable. [[11.20]] This also applies to economic and employment issues, as the issue of worker commuting along the border has already required a very important regional cooperation. When Hungary starts to mitigate the measures, it is necessary to monitor how our neighbours do this and it is important that cooperation with neighbouring countries be established in this respect as well. This should be done for each of our neighbours in the coming period. Thank you very much, Minister, and we wish you good work. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Lőrinc Nacsa is coming from the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-04-27-15	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Thank you for providing the Parliament with information on the state of defence and the acquisition of assets from week to week. From week to week, we can listen to Minister, and from week to week we can also hear that Szabó Timea is lying and spreading rumors. He also said that there is the highest mortality rate in Hungary, which is an obvious lie and we must reject it. He also told me... [[Szabó Timea: It's the truth!]] He is constantly spreading rumors, scaring Hungarian people with rumors that have nothing to do with reality. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you have read the news in the press that some European countries are running out of warehouses, we are running out of protective equipment, so let us consider it a great achievement that they are still coming to us and there is plenty of protective equipment available for protection. If we are taking part-time inventory here, Minister, he has said in broad terms what the government has done so far, let us also look at what the opposition has done so far. They did not support the bill necessary for effective, quick defense, they reduced BKK flights, they concluded millions and tens of millions of contracts with the criminal Czeglédy, the shadow of the private document fraud is constantly cast on Budapest City Hall, they are constantly attacking protective equipment and subsidies for Hungarian communities across the border, the politician of Momentum is threatening us even with lamp irons. All of these can be accounted for by you as conflicting results. This is your inventory of defense, that's what they've been doing. On the other hand, the government is in place, and we have managed to flatten the epidemic curve. We see that so far the protection has been effective, we see that the necessary protective equipment is available, the necessary hospital bed number is available, and we also see that it is a great achievement that only this number of infected people is increasing. I think you should thank everyone who works on defense instead of hatred. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-16	Thank you very much, Congressman. From the Jobbik Group, Mr László György Lukács, Member of the Parliament, is next. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-17	Thank you very much for the floor. Minister, thank you very much for this report, and let us first of all thank those who are involved in the defence and defend Hungary. Their work is extremely important. Secondly, allow me to thank you for coming in to report and spared Miklós Kásler another anemic performance. On the other hand, with regard to masks, Dezső Szabó is right, all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. However, it should also be noted that even Dezső Szabó did not write anything that Müller Cecília could attribute to Wass Albert that, for example, all Hungarians are responsible for all Albanians or all Hungarians are responsible for all Bosnians. You know that masks are needed at home. But speaking of masks, we are very happy that more and more municipalities are introducing mandatory masks. We are also pleased to hear from one of your conferences that masking is the best way to protect people. For four weeks Jobbik has demanded that everyone in public or public places be required to wear masks, as this will help protect them. The person who helps the defense prevents contamination, relieves health, and ultimately saves lives. As far as masks are concerned, Minister, it is clear from your figures that if those numbers are as they should be, there are enough masks in Hungary to provide them to the population in sufficient quantities, on the one hand to vulnerable groups and, on the other hand, to settlements where the municipalities have not yet provided this on their own initiative. So we ask you to show us and not only on the MTI photos when these arrive, but also on what these masks really look like in the warehouses, given that we are about to find out about the number of masks in Hungary that there are two kinds of people who do not believe what you say are happy and unhappy. Let's make sure you prove that there are actually as many masks as they say. Put your masks on and put your masks on. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-27-18	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai has applied for a pre-meeting speech from the Dialogue Group. Now I apologize to Bence of Tordai for calling you. I have that list, and I'm forced to tie myself to what appeared on my monitor. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-04-27-19	Thank you, Mr. President, the best ones make mistakes. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Citizens, We see that the image of the enemy is needed by Fidesz as a piece of bread in order to draw attention to their inadequacy in terms of the protection against the risk of an epidemic. When they saw the coronal virus outbreak hit, they tried a little more migranting, but it went bad. And then we see the serialization sporadically here, but it doesn't really work, and I think even their own voters are laughing at you. And then they try to create an enemy image of opposition representatives, trying to make an enemy image of the mayor, Gergely Christmas. The thing is, this isn't going to work. The depth of the tone of your media reaches is the fact that there is a Nazi speech in the Hungarian Nation, the fact that today's pro-government papers call opposition women prostitutes is a disgrace and a disgrace. You call yourselves national conservative politicians, but in the Fidesz media, you're smearing the opposition congresswoman! The other pro-government paper this morning calls so-called balliberal politicians and Balliberal people worms. So the journalists of Fidesz Media, the propagandaists of Fidesz, call millions of our Hungarian compatriots worms. It's a shame and a disgrace! That's your policy, and you're doing it in order to cover up your entire amateur guard and your unsuccessful, incompetent defense. That manhunt, that media campaign, that slander campaign against Szabó Timea, leader of the Dialogue Group, is also part of this series for which we will be satisfied in court. It's a shame for you to respond to an unspoken and unthinking lie by bringing death threats to our group leader by dozens. This is the result of your policy! Which they don't talk about, and they think we won't talk about it, so let's talk a little bit about the control of the epidemic. Your incompetence in the fight against the epidemic causes hundreds and thousands of diseases. The fact that there are no masks sent out to people, the fact that doctors receive one piece of mask each week in the hospital, in the front line, is that screenings are performed only by the local authorities on their workers, as dialogue mayor Márta Naszályi in the first district, the fact that the activists of the municipalities, civil society organisations and opposition parties are handing out masks shows their own incompetence. There are supposed to be 10 million numbers of masks in this country, and we don't see any action of this type, they give minimum supplies to hospital staff, and that's how much their defense against the epidemic is. It's the same with regard to the number of tests. There's supposed to be 100,000 numbers in the country, and they're testing me for 10,000 numbers. They're in a great order of error, and we're listening to the foreign minister's production reports about their success with import. Where are these protective equipment? ! But let's keep going. Their inadequacy in dealing with the economic crisis results in the loss of thousands, tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of jobs. You've taken a late step, you've taken a weak step, you've done little, and that means that even according to the statistics you've cheated badly, you've lost at least 50,000 jobs, but more than 100,000 jobs in the crisis. A fraction of this would have been necessary, but you're amateurs, you're incompetent, and you couldn't in time create a real, massive, powerful rescue package for the economy. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] For economic operators, Hungarian businesses. You failed at this, too. And you will fail to deal with the social crisis, because you are not only incompetent, but also inhuman. There are about 3 million people whose income in these critical times is less than 100 thousand forints per month, or because they have lost their job, or because they have already been excluded from the social care system, or because their pension is so low. After ten years of Fidesz administration, it is again your shame that your revenue does not reach 100,000 forints, so your inadequate social crisis management policy will result in and result in deprivation, misery, personal and family tragedies. So you have failed all the fronts of crisis management, and you are trying to cover up this failure, this incompetence, by inciting opposition politicians, civil society organisations and well-intentioned citizens who are doing the work the government cannot do, is not fit to do, or may not want to try. [[11.30]] So pull yourselves together very quickly, because it will cost people lives, jobs and human suffering this incompetence that you show in crisis management and stop with the inciting policy that you have been able to carry on in the last few weeks exclusively successfully. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-27-20	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-04-27-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As for the fight against the epidemic, I would first like to report where we stand. Since there is no vaccine in sight, the goal remains to keep the epidemic curve flat. Our country is also doing well in international comparison in this area, and this also results in the fact that we have managed to avoid overloading the health system so far. It is now the second stage of defence, which means that life can be restarted in Hungary gradually, according to a strict timetable. This is done by protecting the most vulnerable elderly and chronic patients during the reboot phase. The government is making decisions this week. We must ensure the protection of people's lives while also protecting Hungarian jobs. And as far as the economic aspect is concerned, I don't expect you to refer to the decisions of the last few weeks, so I will. Many decisions have been made by the government, the most important of which is perhaps the tax reduction. This serves to make sure that by the time we get to the end of the epidemic, the pace of the economy can come close to the previous one and that we do not have to lose mass jobs, because there is a big difference between us: while you are starting from mass unemployment, you take it as a gift that we do not want to be in that position. By the way, as far as the measures are concerned, the government has decided to suspend the repayments, to reduce employer taxes, to waive the flat-rate bill, to terminate the eviction, to pay subsidies, to pay a reduced credit limit of up to EUR 2000 billion, which could be a zero-percent loan; to extend the family allowance entitlements and to return the 13th month pension, which your allies have abolished. Now, while we're here and you've brought it up, I would like to refer you back to some of the things you did in this House last week, because in general, it's very typical of your politics. It starts with the fact that the government has been asked to send protective equipment to Hungarians across the border. And then, just like now, they tried to deny it all. But even though they're doing it, it's pretty clear what they meant. Szabó Timea even said to the Financial Times that Hungary donated part of the protective equipment to Romania. Not Romania, but Transylvanian Hungarians, which is a huge difference. Hungarians across the border know very well that if it were up to themselves, they would receive no support, but no support. They said something else last week in the House. For example, the worst mortality statistics in Hungary are the worst. Not in the region, not in Europe, but in the world. That's what the congresswoman, who left the meeting room right now, said. It's also a big fake, in Hungarian it's a lie. 29 people died in Hungary per million, 61 in Austria, which is double and 619 in Belgium, which is 20 times as much. So much for facts. And the fact is that you know this very well, because, for example, your former mayor's candidate, who was also an officer in chief, recently attended Szabó Timea's online reception class, and said that the mortality rate I quote is actually low compared to many neighbouring countries. It's kind of short. He also said that we should be proud that this proportion is not as serious or as serious as Austria. I ask you, honourable Member, why not, if you could be proud. Instead, why are Hungarians being misled? It's hard to find words for that. And while there are allegations of untruths, there is something to be done. First of all, the Pesti Road Elderly Home, which is the largest known focal point of the epidemic, because we still do not see clearly that there was a continuous medical presence on the ground. In any case, we know that it wasn't at all four times out of five official controls. For example, they did not clarify what the letters related to Zoltán Gál's computer were looking for. And it is also telling that between dozens of Facebook posts, Gergely Christmas never once thought it was important for her to visit the institution, at least we don't know about it. On this basis, honourable Member, we propose that you not attack the support given to Hungarians across the border, not spread false news, but take responsibility and take part in the work, at least in the cities where the electorate has awarded you the confidence and mandate to act. At least for these few weeks, turn down the anger generator and join forces. Given your record, it's gonna be a tough decision, but believe me, it's worth it. We wish you good work on this. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-27-22	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, From the Group of the LMP, Member Mrs Krisztina Hohn applied for a speech before the agenda:. On current affairs. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-04-27-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, This year's graduation is the policy weirdness of the government and the educational task force. The regulation now in place is difficult to accept and goes against the health interests of all participants in education and the government's current epidemiological preventive strategy. It tells us that they have tried to change the rules as little as possible so as to avoid major restructurings. Of course, they forgot to inform the people involved. The right to change will continue to be maintained. Hopefully, it won't be the morning of the exam that we'll be announced that graduation starts a week later. It is said that all conditions are given for a safe graduation, so that according to Zoltán Maruzsa, no masking will be required on the exams or the use of hand sanitizer. However, there is no agreement on this side of the government either, as Gabriella Dawn said that the mask will not be mandatory only during the meeting, but it will be mandatory in case of a change of place. Will the agreement be reached until the day of the written ones? Students are not checked when entering the institution with a digital thermometer, which would be justified as it gives immediate results. We didn't hear any reason why the fever wasn't done before entering the school. Cross-border arrivals are controlled at the border, but no one else is. That is why we ask the government, if nothing else, to measure students with a thermometer before entering school and to provide hand sanitizer in each classroom. And then we haven't discussed the uncertain fate of chronically ill students or what a student does when he's under quarantine during his graduation. During an epidemic, the government didn't even think about the possibility of an online graduation in cases of quarantine. They were able to order language schools and universities to conduct accredited exams from their own well, but they could not afford to provide at least an alternative for students at risk to take the exam. They say online graduation is just a vision that can't be done in two months. Theoretically, the use of online platforms for exams can be a competitive disadvantage for students. Those involved will probably graduate next year and go to college later. But if the language schools were able to solve it in a week and a half, then maybe the government could make it possible for at least the epidemiologically endangered to take an online exam. This will also be necessary in the future because climate change may mean that we may have to face pandemics more often and that this may result in more frequent school closures. This graduation solution does not ensure equal opportunities for patients who are permanently ill or those who graduate early. But they're also a little slippery by surveying people from across the border, I feel. However, graduations that have now passed may also have family policy implications, as the family will be entitled to fewer family allowances after the child who has passed the year. Not to mention, with the delay, the studies are slipping. We ask the government to continue to pay family allowances to families for at least a year after the year has passed. And in my remaining time, I would like to congratulate the owners who operate the newspaper Magyar Nemzet, on this invaluable style. I'm guessing they're eloquent, eloquent people, but they've lost their eloquence somewhere. If you don't have a shirt, you don't take it personally, the style is the man, and you know, the bird, the pen, the man about his friend. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-27-24	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. On behalf of the Government, Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári responds to her speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-04-27-25	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You are well aware, as we report here at Parliament's meetings from week to week that the government is trying to decide everything as quickly as possible in order to ensure that as few people as possible are exposed to the risk of a coronal virus epidemic, as few people are at risk of infection, which is why we have decided to suspend the teaching. [[11.40]] If you look back, honourable Member, on the day following the first death, Hungary has done so, while, let us say, if you look at Austria, it is only on day 5, Sweden only for universities on day 7, not after the first infection, but after the first death, Spain on day 8, Netherlands on day 9, Italy on day 12, France on day 31. But if you look at the day on which the school education was suspended in the school building and the transition to digital education compared to the first infected, the Netherlands on day 17, Austria on day 21, Italy on day 34, Spain on day 41, Sweden on day 47, Germany on day 49 and France on day 52. So Hungary did it on day 12, Germany, France on day 49, 52. So we tried to do everything in the interest of students and educators and for the safety of the family members of the students. We have taken these measures as quickly as possible. None of you here in Parliament have agreed to discuss at an accelerated pace the bill which entitles the government to do so, and then has not supported the bill itself. If it were up to you, there would be weeks of debates here, and then decisions would be made. However, it was important for the government to make these decisions quickly, so that we can preserve people's health. This is what we have done so far, and with the same responsibility we have examined from week to week and from day to day the situation that graduations can be held in Hungary or not. The top scientists were also asked by the government, several of them said at a public press conference last week, for example, Ferenc Jakab, a virologist, that it is possible to hold a degree, an epidemiologist in Russian Beatrix, an epidemiological expert, a chief of the Official Medical Service, said that overall the epidemiological risk is low, however, if further protection measures are taken, we can reduce the spread of the virus to zero in a summons sign. He said, as well as the chief of staff, that, in keeping with the strict rules, there was no obstacle to keeping his graduation. So many health professionals were also consulted by the government before making a decision to report this to students, teachers and families of students, and how this risk could be reduced, and in addition, graduation could be maintained. That's why the government made the decision that graduation could be held. And if you look around Europe, honourable Member, you can see that you are planning to keep it in Italy in this academic year as well! The government says that there is only a written graduation, there is no oral, because the risk of transmission of the virus is lower than the written, they are more than oral, but not only thinking about this year's graduation in Italy, but also in Austria, Germany, Croatia, Poland, Czech Republic, Denmark and Ireland. In fact, there are countries where the entire education is restarted, so not only are ten students entering a classroom on graduations up to a maximum of a foot and a half from each other for a few hours until graduation is completed, but also think about restarting full-fledged education in Switzerland, Romania, the Czech Republic, France, Denmark, Norway and Germany. School begins in the fourth most infected country in France in May. We are not just talking about graduation, we are talking about full - value teaching in a country much more critical than we are in France. In Germany, the number of new infected people is over a thousand per day, the mortality rate is around 100 per day, yet they decided to reopen schools in Germany, obviously there will also be differences at provincial level, and they also decided to maintain maturity. So, honourable Member, we were talking about a procedure based on international examples and involving the best virological professionals and doctors in Hungary. The government decided that, in order to reduce the risk of spreading the virus, there would only be a written exam, not at 8:00, when students would enter the largest crowd, but at 9:00, so later in a room there would be no more than 10 people, obviously in many places there would be fewer than this, so they would sit less often, so they would have to keep a distance of at least one and a half meters, hand sanitizer and masks available to teachers and students. For those who can only travel there the previous day, we will provide separate dormitory placements, and we will organise these exams in such a way that no kind of grouping takes place. And if you don't want to do it now, you can do those same graduations in the fall. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Fidesz, pointing to the costs of small-scale municipalities, would use the title "Fidesz" of the DK Group to address the EU funds that have been denied so far, and Mr László Varju has applied. [[Németh Szilárd István: Again?]] Before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-04-27-27	They're not gonna get away with it. I'm gonna tell you. [[A statement from the Fidesz: Oh, it's gonna be good.]] Dear House, Mr.Csaba Dömötör, State Secretary, has just lied to the opposition here, so in return you know, as the God of grant, let us begin with this story by saying that you have been lying on the road for weeks, that the European Union does not want to help the poor, heroically struggling Hungarian government, and that our country cannot expect any support from the European Union in relation to the coronal virus epidemic. Let me begin by quoting to you a letter from the Minister of State of the Ministry of Interior to all municipalities. I stress that all the municipalities have received it. The European Commission has made it possible to support the management of the crisis situation caused by the corona virus through a tender procedure from the European Solidarity Fund. The Minister for the Interior, responsible for the control of the epidemic, shall initiate the preparation and submission of the application for which a data request table has been drawn up. I will not quote any further; you are asking the authorities for information to the European Commission for this application. What's going on, huh? ! EU money for a crisis caused by a coronal virus from the European Union? ! Isn't that what you've been saying all this time, that you can't use a penny in this when the Democratic Coalition has spoken on this? But let's just go over what this letter says. 1. You acknowledge that the European Union is providing money to deal with the crisis. This letter also proves that you have been lying to the Hungarians about the European Union for weeks. You are hiding a HUF 2000 billion EU grant from Hungarians instead of giving it to local governments and businesses in order to preserve jobs. 2. You acknowledge that instead of the government doing the job, the municipalities are doing it for you. I mean, you're asking the municipalities in this letter to aggregate the costs of protection: masking, hospitals, paramedics, care for the elderly, and I don't think you need to mention what the municipalities are doing for you. Today, for example, there is a mask distribution throughout the Budapest area, and I myself started this morning in Újpesten. It's done by the local authorities instead of you. 3. You want to ask the European Union for money on what the municipalities you have otherwise bled out have done. So they're gonna point at local authorities' costs while they're asking for EU money for stadiums and football academys, and who knows what kind of Butcher investment. So let's go back to the whole thing. You first lied about the European Union and then didn't do your job, and you let the municipalities do it for you, and now you're trying to cheat, because you're running for money to the European Union based on local authorities, so that you can use them, because it's never gonna happen that the municipalities get this. Now, let us applaud this, honourable Members, this is what you are doing at the title of crisis management and the European Union, while the country was counting on you, and you did the same thing that you did ten years ago: you lied, you steal, you cheat, and even a pandemic or the death of the Hungarian people doesn't change your behaviour. After you've sensed the smell of billions of euros here, you're wondering how much the municipalities are spending, and instead of using it properly, who knows what they're gonna do. [[11.50]] But I have a question: how dare you prevent protection by tightening up on the local government? I think that's the real question that you need to answer. How dare they sabotage the districts, cities, settlements that brought masks to people instead of themselves, test and buy protective equipment, while you're throwing numbers at people, and this doesn't get to people? ! They didn't realize that this money was being taken from them, from those municipalities, for example, by withdrawing the car tax, and deliberately destroying free cities and municipalities, so that you could cover it up. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, Anyone who wants to answer that, pull yourself together and answer my three questions. Thank you. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Where's the applause? A round of applause from the dialogue and DK benches. Dr. Bence Rétvári:]]
u2020-04-27-28	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Government, Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-04-27-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, On the one hand, you say that the government does not provide additional resources to the municipalities; on the other hand, you say why the municipalities have to do their part in the task of defence and its costs. Thirdly, it objects to the fact that the government is providing information to the municipalities in order to be able to submit a tender. I don't really understand what the problem is now: if we want to help; if we ask them to take part in the defense; or if by any means we help them with their work. But let us consider the facts, honourable Member. Let us look at what you have done to the municipalities, what measures have been taken during the 2008 global crisis. On the one hand, they took out loans, they indebted Hungary, and their proposals, which we have to listen to from week to week, would lead us here. It also shows that you have not learned anything in recent years. You have, by the way, taken away the 13th month pension from pensioners, which is now being returned by the government, pointing out the difference between left-wing and national crisis management. And let me also remind you that the Fidesz-KDNP government freed the municipalities from almost HUF 1,400 billion in debt, because your government made the management of the municipalities impossible, because their resources were not sufficient to carry out their basic tasks, and many municipalities were driven into bankruptcy. Honourable Congressman, As far as the European Union is concerned, let me have a few sentences. For a month and a half, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, just to discuss the image of the competent Union, has said the exact opposite of what is real. While reports were being written that the virus does not spread from man to man, and our continent is not really at risk, all the other health science centers were already aware that we would be faced with a great deal of trouble. That is why it is a particularly great achievement, honourable Member, that Hungary was among the first to take action to stop the coronal virus infection. As early as January, we set up the operational tribe, and we did so when, by the way, there were only sporadic cases all over the continent. We have taken the tightening measures before other countries, and this is why we have managed to slow down the spread of the epidemic in our country and prepare for the period of mass diseases. Honourable Congressman, A typical example of incompetence, done by dilettious European bureaucrats in the crisis. The health and lives of European citizens and residents have been put at risk, and the Union has shown that it can handle the crisis only and only at political level and does nothing in real action and is paralyzed in such a situation. We have seen this in other crises, let us think about the migrant situation. Honourable Congressman, The fact is, compared to the thousand billion you mentioned here, and we hear from your benches on a regular basis, the reality is terribly simple, honourable Member. Hungary has not received one extra euro or euro cent from Brussels. It's awfully easy to check. You have to look at it with a penny, a forint, a euro cent no more. Whatever you are lying to your Brussels governors at their request, it is simply not true, there is no additional source for Hungary. The Commission's action was to create a technical amendment, which would also allow unused resources to be used to control the epidemic. Besides, there's no need to pay back some kind of advance. Let us be fair, this may even be called some kind of assistance, liquidity assistance, especially for countries whose budgets do not allow the financing of protection measures. That is the case, honourable Member, we have not received a penny more money from Brussels. Please believe me. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-27-30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bertalan Tóth, Head of the Group of the MSZP, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-04-27-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have told you a thousand times, experts have also said, my fellow MSZP and opposition politicians have said that one of the basic conditions for effective control of the epidemic is open, complete and honest information, communication, even if it is not popular. However, you are not interested in effective defence, you are interested in a popularity indicator. You are constantly keeping secrets and thus endangering effective protection, keeping people in a position of uncertainty, thus directly endangering people's lives, health and livelihoods. I understand that you think we're in a state of war, but I want you to know that the enemy is the virus that gives a damn about military secrets. People do have a right to know what's going on and what's waiting for them. They report on the purchase of protective equipment, but we do not know how and when protective equipment from those private warehouses will be released to hospitals, nursing homes, front servants or people. We have heard that there are 86 million masks in Hungary, but we do not see that they are where they are needed. Today, experts recommend wearing the mask, but there is no way to know where to get them, how to get to people in everyday life. The Hungarian Academy of Sciences proposes extensive testing, which we have been saying for weeks, to test, test, test, test, and test, but we do not know that you want to start this at all, and if so, how and when. Micro-enterprises are starting their activities again, because, with zero forints of revenues, despite the extremely tight government support, the bills have to be paid, the wages for the remaining employees have to be paid, but they do not know what the correct protocol is, what regulations they have to follow, because they do not receive any information about it. They hide the number of workers who have lost their jobs because they do not want to take care of them; those who lose their jobs because of an inadequate government rescue package, the number of those who have already reached 100,000. Mr. Secretary of State of Retvári is here. I'd like to send a message through you to your boss to embarrass you. Shame on you for deliberately endangering the health of tens of thousands of people. Shame on you for putting thousands of patients out of hospitals in an unduly dangerous situation. Some have unfortunately passed away since then. Shame on you, as this whole hospital bed reduction has been done, for not giving families, relatives or even municipalities the time to prepare! And shame on you for keeping secrets and keeping secrets makes it harder to control the spread of the infection. It doesn't make sense why they don't answer the questions I've asked. Why didn't they let the hospitals answer the questions I asked, which aren't complicated? Hospitals report daily that they tested patients before sending them home, yes or no. [[12.00]] Have you notified the local government of the place of residence of the patients that the patients in need of care will be returned? They have a job to do, yes or no? Is there enough protective equipment in hospitals, yes or no? How many patients were sent home from that hospital? How many active beds are there in a particular institution? These are the data I asked the hospital directors, and you forbade them to answer that. It was important that we know these data, that there is a risk of infection in the people who have been sent home, that we need help from the local authorities in patient care, or that we should at least get a clearer picture here after the confused communication of the past period. If you'd done everything right, then I don't understand why you're afraid, why you don't give me an answer, then feel free to face people and tell them the truth. I'm gonna ask you again to start mass testing. Send masks to all Hungarian citizens! Set up a protective package, disinfectant, mask and gloves for the elderly. Help the relatives of the sick people sent home by extending and raising the care fee. Give more money to Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises, extend the job search time to 9 months, and give them at least 100 thousand HUF net benefit! I ask you to properly inform the Hungarian people, the Hungarian small entrepreneurs, because what you are doing simply shows that you have something to hide. Take these steps for our future together, Hungary! Thank you very much.
u2020-04-27-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. On behalf of the Government, Minister Péter Szijjártó will respond to the speech by the group leader before the agenda. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-04-27-33	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Obviously, the success of defence against the world epidemic is in the common interest of Hungary as a whole and of all Hungarians living here and beyond. I therefore agree with you that we need to look at what makes defence difficult, what goes against the success of defence. The accusations, the spreading of lies, hatred, fake news, undermining the confidence in health care workers will certainly make it difficult for the defense to succeed. I therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that this request may seem naive, to cooperate with us, so that the period of false news, hatred, mood and lies can be closed in terms of defence. Ladies and gentlemen, In front of you here in Parliament, we report on the state of defense every week. The operational tribe is holding a press conference every day. All our decisions are public. We provide all assistance to healthcare institutions, healthcare workers, economic operators, small, medium, large Hungarian and foreign companies in order to ensure that health protection and the economic protection action programme can be successful. But once again, spreading lies and rumors doesn't help at all. I respectfully inform you, Mr. Group Leader, and all Members of the Hungarian Parliament that the tests will be carried out in accordance with the standards, recommendations and guidelines of the World Health Organisation. The tools for testing are available. I was just able to tell you that the number of tests imported into Hungary exceeded one million. The vast majority of these are clinical tests and a small part is rapid tests. So the instruments are available and we are complying with the relevant international standards. Just as it is natural, honourable Member, that while there is news all over the world about how some countries loosen up restrictive measures to ensure the success of health protection, it is clear that if at some point, there will be great pressure on health systems now. It is also clear that, as the number and intensity of human contact increases, there is a real risk of increasing the rate of transmission of the virus. What does that mean? That there's gonna be pressure on the health care system. What does that mean? That we're gonna need beds, and we're gonna need ventilators to treat patients infected with the coronal virus. You, I understand, are criticizing that the Hungarian health system has been personally prepared by the Ministry of Human Resources and the Minister. But, fellow Members, you would be the loudest if none of this had happened. I would also like to inform you that, in order to support Hungarian businesses, we have put in place a number of important measures that I can assure the Group leader that we have provided full information to businesses. We have launched a public wage support system for lost working hours, and the result of the ongoing consultation is that we have also made amendments to the originally planned system. The Ministry of Innovation and Technology and we ourselves have collected feedback from companies, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and accordingly we have introduced a modified wage support system specifically designed for the Hungarian situation, which companies can use through district labour centres. In addition, I respectfully inform you that although it would be very easy to give in to temptation at a time like this, if I understand correctly, it is an inspiration on your part that, in addition to indebting the country, we will levy as high taxes as possible, but that will not happen either. In fact, we will go further with the tax reduction and reduce the social tax to 15.5 percent, precisely so that maintaining jobs for companies does not cause disproportionate difficulties under the current circumstances. At the same time, I respectfully inform you that our new investment support system has just been announced, but more than 40 companies have already requested support, so much for what they know or what they do not know about the Hungarian economy. In the future, Mr Group Leader, we are certainly at your disposal, as we are at the disposal of all Hungarians with the right information. We would like to ask you for a little more cooperation in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-27-34	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Why are hundreds of thousands of people in jeopardy? Mr Ander Balázs, from the Jobbik Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-04-27-35	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Although prognosticated by June and even later, it is God's gift to be right about the government predictions that the coronal virus epidemic will indeed culminate on 3 May. Now, General Commander, you're very strict about controlling the pro-government mameluke, but I'm afraid you won't be able to command Covid-19 in that way. Even if the roof comes in a week's time, and on May 3rd, at 3:23 p.m., it reaches its peak, it doesn't go down like a fireworks fire, and it doesn't, it doesn't. After the roofing, you have to be very careful for a long week to prevent the outbreak from happening again. That is why we find it unacceptable for the government to organise graduations under such circumstances. It is incomprehensible, as in the recently dated statement of the EMMI it is said that the government will determine the date of the graduation exams on the basis of epidemiological considerations. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, it is incomprehensible, as this step would lead 83,000 students from all directions of the wind rose to their schools, as well as thousands of teachers and technical workers, to write their papers and supervise their graduations for hours. This is an incomprehensible step, since it does not, by the way, discredit the, stay at home! It also calls and curfew measures. Whole sectors have crashed. Entrepreneurship has come to the edge. There's tourism and hospitality, except if you have pro-government dignitaries going to your favorite luxury restaurant to eat caviar, I'm sorry, it might be to go for a tacky pacal, whatever. Thousands of people lose their jobs every day, and these workers in critical situations rightly ask why, if graduation can be conducted, they should suffer because of the epidemic. They're releasing 36,000 hospital beds, sending home serious patients, stroke patients, cancer patients. Patients who have been left unoccupied or delayed in the healthcare system because of the epidemiological situation may become so-called invisible victims, as the Hungarian Medical Chamber wrote in its resolution. So, what's all this about, the patients and the relatives who've been kicked out, if in a week's time, you guys are just gonna be graduating? [[12.10]] However, there would be a flexible and risk-sparing solution for graduation, not 83,000 students and thousands of teachers, should not put their parents, grandparents and family members at unnecessary risk. With my fellow Members, Dr. Brenner Koloman, Tamás Csányi and Gergely Farkas, we have presented a proposal for a decision which, if students choose to do so instead of graduation, would allow them to replace their graduation by a ticket recommendation based on the students' results so far. Both teachers' unions and student organisations find the idea to be supported. Therefore, today we have asked in writing that the Cultural Committee of Parliament put it on tomorrow's agenda. In order to move the matter forward, we also launched an online petition. It is important to stress that we do not want tens of thousands of students to float their graduation dates in digestive uncertainty. There are very good international examples, UNESCO lists eleven countries where there will be no such degree. There is a place where, based on the teacher's evaluation, a ticket will be offered instead of graduation, and in Slovakia, the average of the final grades will give the graduation grade and so on. You will remember the day on which Mr.Orbán said that there will be no school closure on the morning, because then the school year will be cancelled, and the teachers will not be paid. [[Interviews from the Fidesz ranks. The president's ringing the bell.]] Well, let's hope not. And his recklessness will be overcome by common sense at the moment. And to the end, a personal story, if I may, fellow Members. After becoming a congressman, for years, for five years, I went back to my former school to graduate for free in social work. Maybe if something shows me how important I think the mature is and how much I treat it to its value, then that's the thing. Now there is a war, and the Hungarian nation is fighting the coronal virus epidemic. Sometimes the war would require flexibility, and we are asking you for this flexibility. If that was the case, and their interests wanted it, then you simply rewritten the Fundamental Law, but we also remember when the housing savings banks were executed in one day. We would like to ask you very nicely, fellow members of the Government, not to gamble with the safety and health of hundreds of thousands of Hungarians. Thank you.
u2020-04-27-36	Thank you very much, Congressman. On behalf of the Government, Mr Bence Rétvári, State Secretary, responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-04-27-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, When Mr President began his speech by not giving up hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, millions of Hungarians, at first I thought that Jobbik, as a former national party, would finally respond to the speech of Szabó Timea last week, and would distance itself from him, and he would say that Szabó Timea cannot afford in the Hungarian Parliament the voice he struck against Hungarians across the border last week. But a week ago, Jobbik kept it quiet. It seems that Jobbik may have once been a national party, but today it has become more of a support team of Ferenc Gyurcsány, and it seems that there is nothing to say about each other behind the back of Ferenc Gyurcsány. [[Noise, interruptions from Jobbik's ranks.]] Therefore, Jobbik will tolerate without a word that one of our fellow Members in the Parliament of Budapest may have a voice that could be imagined in the Parliament of Bucharest, but in the Hungarian Parliament it is unacceptable that a Hungarian parliamentary representative is virtually an almost [[There are constant interruptions from Jobbik's ranks, including: Topic! Talk about graduation.]] the Romanian ambassador in Hungary is working to protect him, and he defends his statements, and Jobbik does not have a single word to say about this, even though it would have been possible in Parliament. Not in vain, because your new party leader, who is also here, Peter James, also said that the masks were distributed by Jobbik, that not in Serbia and Croatia, as the government does, but for Hungarian people. Therefore, the Hungarians who live in Serbia, Vojvodina or Croatia do not seem to be Hungarians to Jobbik, and this speech did not meet Jobbik's threshold, honourable Member. I'm asking you to tell me about the possibility of hospital beds for patients with coronal viruses to refrain from spreading the various false news. Balliberal media reported in huge, thick headlines that they had the first one in Orosháza at the hospital in Orosháza, and they said that it was a fatal sacrifice to free enough beds in hospitals to provide care for patients with coronal viruses, and that was not the case at all. There, a patient was offered to stay in the nursing ward longer, but in the end, he did not choose this, but went home, so he went home on his own accord and unfortunately died, because he had a very serious illness before. So please don't spread this kind of false news, which will be denied within hours by hospitals, government and the operational tribe, and don't refer to such cases here in Parliament. As far as graduation is concerned, honourable Member... As far as graduation is concerned, honourable Member, it has already been said today that there are countless countries which are organising not only the holding of graduation but also the reopening of full education. The countries where schools are to be opened for education in this academic year are Switzerland, Romania, the Czech Republic, France, Denmark, Norway and Germany. France, the fourth most infected country in the world, is preparing to re-open schools in May, with the number of infected people and the number of death victims in Germany being over a thousand per day, yet they decided to reopen schools and to continue their graduation. Italy also plans to hold the graduation in this academic year, but only to hold an oral graduation. Hungarians are much safer, as we will only have written graduations, but in this academic year we saw how critical the Italian situation was, but in the same way Austria, Germany, Croatia, Poland, Czech Republic, Denmark and Ireland are planning to hold their graduations. This can be done under very strict security conditions, there is no oral examination, only a written examination, except for objects that can only be taken orally or in physical education. It doesn't start at eight o'clock, it starts at nine o'clock, so that students don't go to school during rush hour, there can't be more than ten in one room, but obviously many of the rooms will be much less than this, and a distance of one and a half meters must be kept. Since there is no education in the other classrooms, it is obviously easier to liberate new classrooms now than it may have been before. Hand sanitizer and mask will be available to all teachers and students. The person who has to go there the previous day, we provide separate, separated, unique dormitory placement. During the organisation, we will pay great attention to the avoidance of groupings, or anyone who does not do it now may do so during the autumn exam period to pass his graduation. This decision was taken by the government with the involvement of the most prominent epidemiological experts and professional organisations. Last week, you saw it at a video conference, and everyone could have done it in full public, an epidemiologist from Russian Beatrix, an epidemiological expert said that it was a good decision, a sound decision to organise graduations, and, in addition to the protection measures, we can reduce the spread of the virus to zero. Virologist Ferenc Jakab also said that it is possible to maintain the graduation. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] In addition, you know that students in the National Student Council supported 17 out of 19 participants [[Agnes Kunhalmi, there are 40 of them.]] We're going to have graduations in May. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-38	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Harghitai, from the KDNP Group, with the title of different governments, various economic policies, asks for an opportunity to speak before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-04-27-39	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, This parliamentary week is also in the spirit of these thirty years that we will remember the first freely elected Parliament at the end of the week. I, too, wish to look back on these thirty years, primarily in my speech, on economic policy issues. By the way, we have an unprecedented crisis to deal with, which is a health crisis, a virus that is destroying the world. We don't know much about it yet, although doctors work hard against the virus, but it also has economic implications. I think that when we talk about this health situation here in Parliament, about the destruction of the virus, we should be modest, because we're talking about medical, medical issues, doctors are taking the prime, nurses are taking the prime, I'll tell you, they're doing very well. Our task in this section of the crisis would be to declare unity, to strengthen the government's ambitions and to beam unity. Instead, what I see is that the opposition, of course its nature, is doing everything in its power to destroy the government's actions, to create mistrust, and to prepare for post-crisis times, to embed its own political goals. [[12.20]] The poll numbers, of course, do not indicate that they are successful, but do so. But speaking of the economic impact of the crisis, of course, we can talk about it in substance, because we have lived it in 30 years. Two that we all remember, even Bence Tordai, who and the people behind them have only the political capital he has in his throat, his voice, and he's been teaching us how to deal with an economic crisis. The two crisis management that everyone here must remember in Parliament and in the Hungarian public opinion: 1995, the Bokros package, it peaks, and I will talk about this; and in 2008, you say that the global economic crisis has touched the country. I always put it to it, of course, we made a proper bed for this world crisis to almost wipe out the country, so we all did. The interesting thing is that you steered at the beginning of these 30 years in the first place, always had the opportunity to embed these crises and even create these crises, because if I was to refer to the Bokros package, of course we know very well that the Antall government did not make the bed for this, the Bokros package is a consequence, but the crisis was really caused by the collapse of socialism and the change of regime. And the 2008 crisis was the impossible economic policy followed by the Medgyessy and the Gyurcsány governments, which basically consisted of taking on all the money in the world, the money of others, the money of foreigners, and buying us popularity, and if, of course, this money runs out, then another government will come and solve this situation. It's always been waiting for the Orbán government. This was the case after the Bokros package, then the Orbán government had four years to deal with the crisis. For the record, you've succeeded in bringing the government debt down from the stars. And then the socialist government comes again and does the opposite. What I see is that your crisis management technique is good for one thing: they have no social image, they really don't know what they want to do, where they want to get the country from, so they can't make good decisions. Social vision, without philosophy, this is not possible, and with the kind of humility that you have; and this humility only extends to driving the thoughts of supranational power centers across this country in every way, and to achieving their thoughts, whether this is IMF, whether this is a vision of the European Commission or of the United States now represented by DK. On the other hand, we say and the Orbán government has demonstrated this, we need to build a work-based society, we need to run a family support system, we need to think in the nation, we need to think in Carpathian Europe, and we need to deal with a crisis in these dimensions. We did this successfully in 2008, and I think that if we keep this direction of thought in dealing with this crisis, we can still succeed. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-40	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Government, Minister Péter Szijjártó responds to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-04-27-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, During periods of economic challenges, the economic philosophy debate, which we have sometimes fought here in the National Assembly even in peacetime, is always heightened, and even in peacetime, the domestic economics society has a strong preference, a significant part of which has constantly urged Hungary to take on as much credit as possible, to be indebted as possible, and then to stand at the end as cheap prey to malicious people, who are called speculators in the common language. This economic philosophy debate takes place between two positions. One of the positions says that in such situations, the more credit needs to be taken, the more debt to the country, the more redistribution and the more aid needs to be given to people. The second position is to reduce taxes during these periods, to facilitate the use of people for companies, to facilitate operating conditions for companies, to protect jobs and to create conditions to create new jobs on a permanent basis. So one economic philosophy approach would give people aid and the other would give people work. In 2010, when we were able to take over the country's governance during the global economic crisis, we decided to create a work-based society, where we constantly reduce the tax burden on labour and constantly provide support for companies that are willing not only to protect the jobs they have created but also to create new jobs. This is what we decided to do now, when we put together the economic protection action plan, and then we made it public, and we decided to help the Hungarian people through the work again. We are told that the opposition you quoted is constantly demanding aid from us. What we do not understand is why they do not demand new jobs, why they do not demand new investments. If they did, their demands would reach their destination immediately. This is exactly what the economic protection action plan includes: protecting jobs that are at risk and creating at least as many new jobs as are lost in this crisis. What we must see, ladies and gentlemen, is that, as a result of the transformation of the world economy, no one can withdraw from international economic processes today. The question is only who can benefit from the difficult periods in the case at hand. Remember, in 2010, government debt was above 85 percent, unemployment was above 12 percent, 1.8 million taxpayers were trying to build on the maintenance of the 10 million nation's economy and so on and so on. We have also managed to put these difficult circumstances to our advantage, and we have achieved that the previously quoted and very confident economists, despite smiling at our objective of creating a million new jobs in ten years, have succeeded and our country has demonstrated the fastest economic growth rate in the European Union last year. So the difficult situation has been put to our advantage. And that's what we have to do now. We need to see that the Hungarian economy is the tenth most open economy in the world, the share of exports and GDP is 86.5 percent, the Hungarian people produce competitive products and services. That's what we need to know when we're putting together the economic security plan. And we're still reducing our taxes. Social taxes are reduced to 15.5 percent. This means that we have been able to bring the tax rate down to almost half in four years. And we still have to pay the lowest personal income tax and corporate tax in Hungary, thanks to the single-key tax across Europe. So our objective is not that the Hungarian economy simply survives the current situation; our objective is to make the Hungarian economy stronger in the post-crisis period than it is now. This was our goal in 2010, many of them smiled, but we succeeded. And we will succeed now. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-42	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr László Böröcz, Member of the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-04-27-43	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The coronal virus epidemic has also occurred unprepared for advanced Western civilization, and we are still looking for a solution despite the fact that over the last hundred years the development of medicine has transcended all imagination. But the epidemic has also led to an economic crisis that is unlike any previous crisis, so the majority of countries face very serious difficulties. The crisis is complex, since the so-called epidemic curve needs to be flattened at the same time, so that the health care system can withstand the strain and maintain the economy at the same time, since its shutdown can have undetectable consequences. [[12.30]] In the current situation, most sectors of our economy are facing serious problems and almost all sectors will suffer damage. It is difficult for entrepreneurs, it is difficult for investors, it is difficult for financial institutions, but the most difficult situation is workers. There are companies and companies in which demand for their products and services will probably not return for a long time after the crisis, or less people will survive because of the increase in competition. This is inevitable, so our goal is to create as many jobs as they go away. Thanks to the government's activities of the past ten years, Hungary has been able to create an entrepreneurial and economic environment where, even in the current situation, investments of higher added value are welcome. For example, we can mention the new headquarters of Jysk in Hungary, which will create 300 new jobs, or the new investment of Samsung, which will create another 2,700 jobs, and as we have heard from the Minister, 40 companies have signed up to discuss investments in Hungary. Of course, there will be some who, hopefully, will only be shorter, but without work. For them, a temporary solution is the unemployment benefit system used in many countries of the world, which provides support to those affected for three months in Hungary. But keeping and protecting jobs is the most important thing, for which we help businesses with job-holding subsidies, credit, guarantee instruments, capital replacements and tax measures. With tax reductions and discounts, more than HUF 300 billion will remain in business. 220,000 employees are involved in the tax relief, and only personal income tax and a maximum health contribution of HUF 7710 should be deducted from their wages. Businesses in difficulty have enough to manage net wages during the epidemic, as they can even benefit from contributions and benefits from employees. Companies will have to pay up to HUF 5 million less tax if their application is positive. But the government has eased not only the financial burden but also the administrative burden, and the tax office helps companies to transfer the return VAT in up to 30 days. The application for wage support for employment protection will be simplified and the range of beneficiaries will be increased, and wage support can be requested after two hours of work per day. In addition, businesses can apply for a two-year job retention loan with only 0,1 per cent interest on nine months' wages. Chambers and advocacy representatives also agree that the extension of wage support for job protection is capable of preserving jobs. We can also protect hundreds of thousands of workers' jobs thanks to wage support measures. This means that the government has taken over 100 thousand forints of the wage cost per employee, and this is an important step to make a living not on social assistance but on work. It is important to note that the civilian government is doing what it has promised, even in this difficult situation. According to previous agreements, the social contribution tax is reduced from 17.5 per cent to 15.5 per cent, leaving some HUF 160 billion in business pockets in six months. And as a reminder, this was not always the case, since there was a government that legitimized the tax reduction and raised taxes after the elections. And now let me give you a short quote. I will not quote from the Autumn speech, but the former Prime Minister said: whoever wants to give a reduction in contributions, who sees the source of the economic recovery in Hungary as a reduction in contributions, can only say that because Ferenc Gyurcsány did not work in his life. Ferenc Gyurcsány worked, but the whole country sucked. [[Defiance. The president's ringing the bell.]] So maybe we would have been better off if that hadn't been the case. So our policy is focused on protecting jobs, and we will create as many jobs as the virus will destroy. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Intercoms from the opposition benches.]]
u2020-04-27-44	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Government, Mr Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, replied to the speaker's speech before the agenda. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-04-27-45	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, There can be no question that one of the government's most important tasks now is to implement the economic protection action plan point by point, to ensure that jobs are protected and to create at least as many new jobs as the crisis has put at risk. You talked about tax reliefs, about a moratorium on credit payments, and about deferrals. The most important task, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, is that we can maintain the liquidity of Hungarian businesses, because this is essential for these companies to be able to keep jobs or create new ones. We have introduced the special Hungarian wage support system after the loss of working hours, which can be requested by employers and workers in district labour centres. As a result, workers who are forced to reduce their working time during the week will be paid from two sources. On the one hand, from their employer to the period they continue to work, and part of it from the state, and this from the loss of working time. This regulation was finalised after consultation with the economic sector, companies and Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. I would also like to inform you that we have opened the possibility for Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises to apply for low-interest long-term working capital loans, which is the most important step in maintaining liquidity, which will allow Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises to receive working capital loans from Eximbank within the year at 0.1 per cent interest. In this way, they can maintain their ability to operate, maintain their jobs and, in order not to lose a market, in the case of foreign sales, Eximbank will be insured against these companies even if there is a delay in payment of up to one year. As we also ensure, honourable Member, that, in the context of increasingly difficult circumstances, companies are able to maintain loans from commercial banks that have previously been taken out or are about to take out loans, Eximbank has also developed a guarantee scheme whereby Eximbank itself stands behind small and medium-sized enterprises and helps to meet the collateral requirements imposed by commercial banks. And I would also like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have launched an investment promotion programme whereby companies implementing investments in Hungary can receive up to 50% of the value of their investment in cash from the Hungarian budget. I would like to draw the attention of my opposition colleagues to the fact that I am not talking about an EU resource, but about the resources provided by the Hungarian national budget: up to EUR 800 thousand, the Hungarian state can already provide this investment promotion support. The procedure for notification, i.e. approval, initiated by the European Commission, has been completed, so it is now possible for Hungarian companies to use this form of support. And once again, I would like to draw your attention, honourable Member, to the fact that we continue to believe that we should not give people aid, but work, so that the tax burden on labour must be constantly reduced, and accordingly the rate of social contribution tax will be reduced by another 2 percentage points this year, from 17.5 to 15.5 percent, in order to enable Hungarian companies, small and medium-sized companies, as well as small and medium-sized companies, to protect the jobs at risk and create new jobs. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[12.40]]
u2020-04-27-46	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, This brings us to the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to inform you that you have made a statement following today's agenda: Mr Dániel Kárpát, from the Jobbik Group; Mr Ander Balázs from the Jobbik Group; István Simicskó, notary of the Parliament, from the KDNP Group; Mr Zsolt Nyitrai from the Fidesz Group; Mr Péter Hoppál from the Fidesz Group; Mr László Lóránt Keresztes from the LMP; Member Ildikó Bangóné Borbély from the MSZP; MEP László Hajdu from DK; Member László Varju from DK; Zoltán Varga from DK and Andrea Varga-Damm from Jobbik. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's 12:41, and we're gonna start discussing immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Mr.Péter Jakab, leader of the Jobbik Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. The word belongs to Mr. Peter James. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-47	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Mr. Prime Minister, You said in Parliament a few weeks ago that you would resolve this crisis without the opposition. Believe me, the last thing I care about is that you're gonna work it out with us or without us, you're just gonna figure it out. But apparently he doesn't know; he doesn't know, and it was revealed when he said something so stupid at the beginning of the crisis that workers and employers should sit down with each other and then agree on how to proceed. Prime Minister, this is only said by someone who has never worked a minute in his life outside the walls of Parliament. I'm sure you haven't worked anywhere else, have you? [[Intercoms in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I think you can see it. Prime Minister, that's not how it works in real life; it doesn't work when the factory worker goes to the German multi-leader, that Günther, let's just agree that he won't fire us. Well, Günther is not interested in the Hungarian worker, but in the profits and the two-year working hours that he received from you as a gift to make the Hungarian worker work as a slave after the crisis. The Hungarian small and medium-sized entrepreneur, now he is interested in the fate of his employee. But what can you do if you don't have any savings, no orders, no income? These companies were waiting to receive a lifeline from the government to save jobs and workers, but this lifeline did not arrive. Prime Minister, there's a crowd of businesses going down the street, and a crowd of workers who, after three months' unemployment benefits, will be on the side of the road with no money and no income, with bills on their necks. You said that you would solve the crisis on your own, while your economic advisor himself admitted that so many people in this country would be ruined that they couldn't deal with them anymore. Prime Minister, if that is the case, if you really don't know what to do with the masses of Hungarians in distress, then I have only one question: what did you really need the delegation law, the extraordinary power, the crown? For what, Prime Minister? ! I'm waiting for your answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-27-48	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán for the answer to Mr Fraction Manager's question. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-04-27-49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If you'll allow me, I'm not going to give you a long list of facts about an economic system in Hungary where employers and employees usually agree on one another. If you don't know about this, I suggest you look into this. At the beginning of each year, they agree on the issue of large factories, large employers, large workers, and even more, for example, the minimum wage. We don't share the class-warrior concept of turning employers and employees into one another. I understand that now that you're in a left-wing unit with the left-wing parties, I understand what you're talking about, but in our view, we don't need a class fight, we need agreements in the economy. And as for the crisis, I would like to draw your attention to the facts. First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, instead of making accusations in times of crisis, the most important thing would be in the interests of the country. You could have seen in the beginning of the crisis what is in Hungary's interest, but I must say that you have not done this for a minute, and you have even given attention to the public opinion that is clearly drawn out in Hungary, and you say that in times of crisis there is a need for cooperation and not party politics. I am convinced that in the last few months and a half, you have proved only one thing: if the country is in trouble, then you cannot be counted on. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-50	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of Mr. Peter James. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-51	Prime Minister, one thing you must not forget is that unlimited power is accompanied by unlimited responsibility. Your responsibility so far is 51,000 unemployed in a month and a half. It's a brutal number. Prime Minister, you have asked for extraordinary power to deal effectively with the crisis. Compared to this, we see that while the masses of Hungarians are being destroyed, your son-in-law, István Tiborcz, can still build a yacht marina out of two billion, your buddy Lőrinc Mészáros can build an experiential park out of 20 billion. Prime Minister, it's the wrong way. You don't have to be in solidarity with family and friends right now, you have to be in solidarity with the nation. So we do expect you to pay extraordinary taxes, if you like, to pay Ripper's tax to all those who have become filthy rich with government tailwinds in recent years. Prime Minister, if we introduce this now, we will be able to save the masses of jobs from tomorrow's Lőrinc Mészáros, István Tiborcz and others' wealth. Prime Minister, do you support him? A country is waiting for its answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-27-52	I'll give the floor to Prime Minister for a minute's rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-04-27-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to remind my fellow Member that Jobbik is the only party in Hungary that has been bought by kilos [[Zoltán Balczó: But who is he? Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]] and everyone knows about it and speaks openly. So if you think you'd like to get involved, talk to your owners about how and how. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interjection in Jobbik's ranks: Comrade Prime Minister is rising.]] However, if you did not find this sufficient, you could also have a word with the red barons of your new allies. In any case, all I can tell you from your words is that there is a clear answer to the question of why Jobbik, who used to be a right-wing party, is now acting the way he behaves. The answer is simple: you have been pushing the cart of the left for a long time.In fact, Jobbik is no longer a better car, but a ballik. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And you can boast that, under your leadership, Jobbik has finally become a left-wing party. Congratulations on that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks.]]
u2020-04-27-54	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Member Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question on the title of "Rebuilding the Economy." Congressman Attila Mesterházy has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-55	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Prime Minister! I am one of those who cheer for the successful actions and actions of the Hungarian government, because if these steps are not successful, more and more people will die and more Hungarian families will be destroyed. Therefore, everyone must cheer in Hungary no matter how different we think about different issues in politics, so that you can manage this crisis successfully. We are talking a lot about the dangers of this crisis in this House, but the Chinese language is very nicely expressing that a crisis is in many cases a threat and opportunity, and I would like to talk about the possibility here, Prime Minister. What I see is that the sovereignty of this country, or even national security issues, is very much the difference between who we depend on. We see that the whole world is in line with China, and this is causing a lot of serious weaknesses and dangers in such a crisis management. But I can also say the other side of this is that recovery is also a competition, an international competition, how and how a country can emerge from this crisis. Therefore, there is an opportunity before the country and before us to redesign the Hungarian economy, to redesign Hungary as well, because it is important that Hungary is more competitive and this is my second aspect out of this crisis. So in Hungarian, it can be self-sufficiency and a new economic structure that helps to tackle this situation in Hungary, because we need to know that the world will not be the same as it has been before. This virus or another virus will stay with us. [[12.50]] So there could be a similar situation at any time to what just happened. We hope this doesn't happen, but the chances of that can't be ruled out. They say it's gonna happen. We just don't know when. I would like to ask the Prime Minister what you think about this. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-04-27-56	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is addressed to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-04-27-57	I'm certainly embarrassed because you said you were rooting for the success of the crisis management. I'm sorry that you're part of the minority within the opposition, but I admit that just now, when I put you in line with the Jobbik, I was out of line, so I apologize. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] However, I am pleased to hear from you, because I agree with what you have to say in terms of the fact that many issues that seemed to have been closed previously have been reopened. There is a possibility, there is a need, and there is even a need to reconsider some of the economic links previously considered evident. Instead of starting a geostrategic and geoeconomic spree here in less than a minute, I would like to point out that the governing party and the government are ready to discuss these issues with any opposition party and the future of the Hungarian economic strategy. (Applause in the ranks of the governing parties. )
u2020-04-27-58	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Attila Mesterházy. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Prime Minister! I would like to make a proposal, also by what you have said, that a very complex approach must be taken in these matters. This is not just about the economy, it is about education, the health system, the rethinking of the social sphere, because this epidemic has brought problems that we suddenly thought could not exist, and yet now there are thousands, tens of thousands of people working every day to solve this situation and thank them for this work. It is therefore worth thinking ahead, as the Prime Minister has indicated, and so do I. I don't know, the Prime Minister thought that perhaps in Hungary we could create a committee for the future, or something like that, which would provide a framework for the thinking that Prime Minister has been talking about, namely the scientific life, political life and the involvement of interest representatives in a 20-30-year-long period, with an analysis of the risks, perhaps a consensus could be reached within the framework of such a committee. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President. [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-04-27-60	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-04-27-61	If the Member means that this is a proposal, then I would be happy to accept it, and if he has three thoughts on this which he is willing to put on paper, I will gladly accept it, and I will gladly give him an answer, and then we can create this something that we do not yet know exactly what it is, but it will probably not hurt, and it may even be helpful for the future. In my favourite sport, the rule is never to run where the ball is, but to go where it will be, and that is the job of such a committee. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-62	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman Gergely Arató, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think, Prime Minister? It's an address. Congressman Gergely Harvesto has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-63	Dear House, Prime Minister! Let me start by saying that I strongly reject your suggestion that there would be anyone in this House, on any side, not a successful crisis management. [[There's a grumble and a blur in the ranks of the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell. A statement from the ruling parties: chandelier!]] It would not encourage the relief of economic damage or the relief of damage caused by the epidemic. It's the meanest and cheapest political trick, if that's what you're suggesting. However, we are obliged to say this because we see that your crisis management measures are often ineffective, often leaving millions of Hungarian citizens on the side of the road to use the image you use. Let me give you an example. The historic rescue and economic package, I would say, is rather a package that does not save jobs, but what has happened in the past is that since the package was announced, the wave of redundancies has spread to new sectors and new companies. Bosch sent 800 employees, Wizz Air thousands, Continental and Hankook hundreds of employees. I have to say that these are the strategic partners of the government, to whom you have given many discounts at the expense of Hungarian small businesses, but it seems that this kind of strategic cooperation is a one-way street, because they are not in solidarity with what is happening to their employees. What happens next is they can't even tell us how many unemployed there are. According to the leaked Ministry material, there are 330,000 unemployed, which represents an increase of 100,000 people compared to the December data, Minister Gulyás spoke of 50,000, and there was an HCSO report that said 10 thousand. From now on, I have to say that I understand, of course, that you do not want to make this public, because if you would admit the true level of unemployment, you would have to give an account of why you do not give substantial support to the people of Hungary who are left without work. But how do you want to make an efficient economic package if you don't admit the truth? [[A rare applause in the ranks of opposition parties.]]
u2020-04-27-64	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-04-27-65	It is tempting to enter into a strong debate with you on the nature of employment policies, but this would be such an unsportsmanably significant advantage for me that I would rather not do so. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] rather, I would like to draw your attention to the only fact that, in the government where you served, there were economic policies, and in 2010 3 million 600 thousand people in Hungary worked as a result of your economic policy, and ten years before the outbreak of this crisis, 4.5 million people after the beginning of our governance. That's why it's not worth having a detailed job-creation debate with each other. On the other hand, there is an important point in your question that may require interest from everyone, and that is what data the government is working on. We're working on the same data as you. This is because data should also be available in a European comparison. This means that the methodology provided by the European Union, which serves as the basis for the operation of the HCSO, is the methodology that we accept and we make our decisions on the basis of information from the HCSO. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-66	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the congressman's word. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-67	Prime Minister! There's nothing more pathetic than someone pointing back to the previous government after ten years of government. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] This is not what the voters expect of you, but what they expect of you to solve today's problems. [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] I understand, of course, that there is a difference between your neoconservative, I might say, neoliberal economic policy and a left-wing or centre-left economic policy. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] But people who have lost their jobs, who are going to lose their apartments, because they cannot pay, who do not know what they are feeding their children, and who, after that, cannot count on you for Europe's narrowest and shortest-term unemployment benefits, are not interested in this debate. They are interested in why they cannot receive direct direct support, why they cannot receive a higher amount of unemployment benefit, as is otherwise the case in Western Europe, or even in the Czech Republic, which you feel sorry for.
u2020-04-27-68	Thank you very much, Congressman. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-04-27-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, I would like to reiterate the government's commitment that as many jobs as the virus destroys, we will create as many jobs. That his pathetic thing is to recall the past in an ongoing debate, I can only say that we are undoubtedly at a disadvantage here compared to you, because we cannot completely erase the past. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] And since we can't cancel it, but we are happy to recall it, I can personally say that you were sitting here in Parliament when the 13th month wage was taken and you voted in favour; you were sitting here when the 13th month pension was taken and you voted in favour; you were sitting here from three years to two years, and you voted in favour; you were sitting here at the introduction of the paid health care; you were sitting here at the introduction of the property tax and you voted in favour; you were sitting here at the tuition fee and you voted in favour; and you were sitting here at the rate of 5% of the VAT increase, and you voted in favour. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[13.00]]
u2020-04-27-70	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Member László Keresztes, the leader of the LMP Group, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. László Lóránt Keresztes has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to refer you back to this question because there has been no substantive answer to that question. We have witnessed a political battle, but I think the situation is far more serious than wasting the time of the Parliament. Prime Minister mentioned that the government is working on exact data, working on KSH data. Your minister, his finance minister, has recently admitted that it will be much worse, that the economic outlook is much worse, and that the government must practically redesign it. We know precisely that it will be unprecedented, that the economic crisis we are facing will be unprecedented, and we also see that a social tragedy is already unfolding. These figures have already been said that according to official statistics, 50,000 to 60,000 people have already become unemployed in a month and a half, and unfortunately these forecasts also indicate that another 100,000 people could be in this situation. We know from various surveys that a significant majority of Hungarian company managers have said that they can hold the current employment situation for about two months, but they also face the prospect of waiting for a minimum of six months to return their revenues, so that they can sit down on the basis of what you said at all. At present, employers are not in a position to negotiate with workers, which is why this social tragedy is emerging. By the way, professionals close to the government already acknowledge that this economic package, called the historic one, is weak, and that is why this shocking level of unemployment has developed. My question, Prime Minister, is that you have not been present in these debates in the last few weeks, and here we have been trying to ask your subordinate ministers why the government has not dealt with this most serious problem, so those who are already in a difficult situation, those who have already lost their livelihood. Prime Minister, is it your personal political instruction that you do not want to deal with this problem in substance and that you can expect the Hungarian people to think about this policy and extend the unemployment benefit for people who have lost their jobs, and increase the amount that is necessary for families to survive during this transitional period? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And believe me, Prime Minister, these people want to work, but now everyone is facing an extremely deep economic crisis. Thank you very much. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2020-04-27-72	Thank you, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán.
u2020-04-27-73	He's been asking a number of questions. If you'll allow me, I wouldn't enter into the otherwise exciting question of how the economic consequences of this crisis, of this epidemic, can be remedied, and what the Hungarian National Bank says about it, what the Minister of Finance and what the Prime Minister says. If I may, I would focus on only one element of what you said, and that is the problem of unemployment and work. I'd like to be very clear. Those who lose their jobs will receive unemployment benefits in Hungary for three months, which is called job search support. By the time that expires, everyone will have a job, there will be no person in Hungary who, after three months' unemployment benefit has run out, will not receive a job offer from the economy or the Hungarian state. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-74	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Congressman, in return, you have the floor.
u2020-04-27-75	Thank you very much for your reply. Mr. Prime Minister, I really hope that's how it's gonna go down. However, if negative scenarios do not come true, and if negative scenarios come true, as can be expected from many signs, then you can expect a government step that if you do not meet this commitment, you will be extended after the expiry of the three months. We know that some people have already lost their jobs, and I don't think you really believe that in the next period, when the deep economic crisis is just beginning to unfold, it will be possible to create so many jobs in such a short period of time. And I would like to make one more reference, a little redirected or remembering the thoughts of Congressman Attila Mesterházy that the future must be planned. Prime Minister, you are looking to protect jobs and pay supplements of HUF 200-300 billion, but it is also in the budget, and it is in front of us, before the Parliament, a decision to spend a thousand billion forints on railway development, the Budapest-Belgrade railway development project. I believe that, although I obviously will not have time to explain, this is not in the long term in the interests of the nation. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] What I'm asking, Prime Minister, is that instead of lifting the restrictions, [[The president's ringing again.]] These investments will be abandoned and these huge budgeted funds will be used to support Hungarian families in difficulty. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-27-76	Congressman, your time frame has expired. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-04-27-77	This is also a point of thought and debate that deserves more attention than a one-minute rejoinder, i.e. how we should think about large investments in times of economic crisis and health epidemics. We seem to be thinking in different ways. I would like to refer back to a previous question: I believe that, if at any point, we must make the big strategic investments that will underpin the success and competitive advantage of the Hungarian economy for the coming years, and that these investments should not be cancelled, but should be accelerated and their number increased. However, I would like to return to your initial question to confirm that we do not have a B-scenario in the case of job creation; we have an A-scenario, that is what we will achieve. Whoever doesn't have a job and gets out of unemployment benefits, we're going to create jobs either in the market or in the public sector. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-78	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What's going on? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-04-27-79	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, You have recently presented your economic recovery programme, but it seems that there are a lot of Hungarian people who are not really helped by this program. Dozens, hundreds of Hungarian workers have contacted us in the last few weeks because they do not understand why the government is not helping them. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Noise.]] They asked us to ask you, so allow me to have specific questions about this. How does your program help Dori, who worked in the film industry as a lightener, as a catalysmist, have no income since early March, no order, no billing? By the way, he lives with his retired parents, so they can't help him in the long run. How does your program help Attila, who works in catering as a waiter or a waiter, because she is already on unpaid leave in April? By the way, they're living with a couple, and they're about to have a baby. How does your program help Zsuzsa, who worked in tourism, was a guide, she speaks two languages very well, on the upper level, she last billed as a cat in March? By the way, she's divorced. She lives with a kid at home. Mr. Prime Minister, What kind of help does your economic plan offer to these people who are at the end of their reserves? In addition, the two entrepreneurs were not affected by the Katás discount, they were left out of this discount. With all due respect, Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you not to be a spinner, not a serialist, not a buzzer, and not even a migrant. Answer me how thousands, tens of thousands of Dóri, Attila and Zsuzsa will be helped by your program. Thank you for your reply.
u2020-04-27-80	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-04-27-81	Monotony tolerance is an important prerogative of my work, and obviously you weren't here earlier, because that's the question I was given, and I gave you the answer. I'll repeat that answer for you. Therefore, those who lose their job have the right to a job search grant in Hungary for three months, since they have paid the fee for this earlier. When this runs out, it runs out and still has no job, you will get job opportunities and job opportunities either from the market or from the Hungarian government. We'll all get jobs, believe me. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-82	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return.
u2020-04-27-83	I would like to draw the Prime Minister's attention to the fact that it is not always possible for an entrepreneur to receive unemployment benefits if he was a new entrepreneur, for example, he is not entitled to do so. Many tens of thousands of Dora, Attila and Zsuzsa are waiting for their help. If they don't have any income, then these tax incentives you're giving us aren't worth much. You said in your latest campaign film that no Hungarians are alone. Prime Minister, in your reply, you are leaving these Hungarians in shoes like Dora, Attila and Zsuzsa alone.
u2020-04-27-84	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Here you go, Prime Minister. [[13.10]]
u2020-04-27-85	What I understand from your reciprocation is that there are people who are not only employees, but also employers, say, entrepreneurs, and they may have been in a difficult situation because of the current epidemic, if I understand correctly. I think that at least a dozen times in this House, one of our ministers responsible for the economy, Peter Szijjártó, said that for those entrepreneurs who are in a difficult situation because of the current epidemic, we have now opened up a 50 billion-dollar fund, which if it runs out, otherwise we are able and willing to raise. If they turn there, these businesses can receive support, especially after the EU, even if it has not given money, has allowed us to support such entrepreneurs with Hungarian budget money. That's what we're gonna do. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-27-86	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mónika Dunai, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity. [[Mónika Dunai: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-27-87	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear Parliament, The world is living in a dangerous time, and our country is also in it during this trying time, which is a huge burden not only for decision-makers but also for citizens. We are facing an invisible enemy that we can overcome with great effort if we look after one another. It is therefore important that our decision-makers take appropriate measures in good time. As a devastating news, the events that took place in the elderly home on Pest Road have reached everyone. Unfortunately, the nursing home has become an epidemiology center. At least 287 residents and 22 workers have been infected since the outbreak. So far, 29 of our senior countrymen have lost their lives. This heartbreaking situation could have been avoided if the Metropolitan Municipality, led by Gergely Christmas, had complied with the emergency measures imposed by the authorities and provided the home with protective equipment and disinfectants in good time. This lack, my fellow Members, was to be replaced by the Government Office. The gravity of the situation is also indicated by the fact that the national chief of staff had to personally take over professional control on the spot. Thank you for your swift action. We also thank the members of the Hungarian Defence Corps for the necessary chemical disinfection. Dear Secretary of State, While Christmases were talking about the ongoing medical care at the home, it turned out that it wasn't true. This is also supported by random tests. Dear Secretary of State, In view of what has been said, I would like to ask what responsibility the institution-supporting authorities have in their defence against the coronal virus. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-27-88	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-27-89	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, All its maintenance responsibilities are to protect the people living there in its institutions, to ensure a proper level of care, and to obtain protective equipment during an epidemic situation, to protect the residents from infection. Hungary's Government gives the capital HUF 6 billion to provide adequate care in nursing homes; HUF 6 billion this year as well. In addition, when it was already apparent that the City Council was not capable of protecting its own institutions, we provided additional protective equipment, since if you look at the national data, you can see that every seventh to eighth patient in Hungary came from this one institution. That is why it was important for us that, if the municipality had not done so, we provided 5700 masks and 4500 pairs of rubber gloves for the guests, caregivers and workers there. We also did so because it is evident that not with the care of a good farmer, but with complete carelessness, the City Council acted. Although the military was there and helped, although there was also the Chief of Staff, Gergely Christmas mentioned this institution in Facebook posts at most, but did not try personally to improve the situation on the ground. Four times out of five random tests, no doctors were found there. He was only a doctor at the institution on paper at the time when the coronal virus entered the facility and was provided with a spread. There was no doctor there who could have noticed from various signs who showed the external signs of the coronal virus disease, who could have isolated them, even though there has been a national protocol for several weeks that the chief of staff has issued, what to do, how to do it. But none of the doctors were there during the random checks, who could detect these external signs, isolate the patients, and prevent the mass disease that made this institution a focal point. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-27-90	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I accept your answer, but I do not accept the attitude that the Metropolitan Municipality, led by Gergely Christmas, is doing in this case. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] The fact that 13 percent of all the infected in Hungary come from this one home and the fact that, unfortunately, 10 percent of the deceased are also from this one home is unacceptable. Now, of course, the focus is on cooperation. [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] [[Agnes Kunhalmi intervenes.]] "This is what we expect Mr. Mayor to do at last and not to send a message to the press (Agnes Kunhalmi interrupts) and Facebook. Every Budapester, the whole country, and especially Budapesters, expects them to finally give them a right hand or a left hand which they have, most likely a left hand for the troubled. That's what we do, we give you a better hand, a better peace for everyone. We expect everyone to do their duty and duty. Of course, accountability must not fail. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Shame on you!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-27-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-27-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Indeed, what we have seen from Gergely Christmas is somewhere between irresponsible and squirming. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: What did the government office do?]] He doesn't take responsibility at all, he points to everyone else. In this case, he has already stated on Facebook that he is responsible; he is responsible for the doctor, the government, the government, everyone else in this case, but he is not responsible for the fact that this nursing home has become a focal point. We should not be dealing with the shift of responsibility, but with the care of the people here, or perhaps with the provision of permanent medical supervision. It has already been found that various forged or at least letters are posted on the Internet, sometimes bearing the header's header and Gergely Christmas's signature, the data sheet shows that Zoltán Gál, a former heroic left-wing penner, has been added to the website with his amendments, and he is also co-author of this, which was supposedly written by the head of a social institution. It turns out that some people are being written as doctors, but they are not doctors in these operational tribal correspondences in the capital, ladies and gentlemen of Congress, everything that has already been done has already been taken care of. We should finally take responsibility, and then we should take action for Gergely Christmas, but clearly we can't do that. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-27-94	Thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Ádám Steinmetz, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Yes or no? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-04-27-95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, I think we have a lot in common. You like sports, you like sports, you like sports, you like sports. [[Viktor Orbán: I wanted to.]] You've been to the Olympics, and while you're kicking the ball with your right foot, I'm throwing it with my right hand. So we're both right. [[Defiance.]] I used to think about how to rewrite the rules; it's true about waterball and with a view to making the sport I owe so much more lovable. But I didn't think the match would last as long as I wanted. But the Prime Minister has been given unlimited authority, thanks, among other things, to himself, and therefore, you can now determine the rules of the game. [[13.20]] For example, he sends thousands of people home from our hospitals, sick people whose care at home has not been properly solved. But let's skip the criticism now. You'll get enough of that. Since you like to win, and so do I, I suggest we move towards a common victory. We agree that sport must be promoted in the highest priority, but the health of Hungarian people is more important than our beloved sports. We must protect their health, because without health, there is no sport, no economy and no future. You agree with me, don't you, Prime Minister? I respectfully ask, therefore, that you support the proposal to offer corporate tax to public health institutions in addition to visual sports. Yes or no? We're waiting for an answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-27-96	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán will answer the question. I give the floor to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-04-27-97	First of all, my honourable fellow Member, on the subject of unlimited authorization, we stand that it is not for me to decide, but for you, or if I decide on it, I will have only one vote, because on this issue Parliament has the right to decide, where you have one vote. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It doesn't matter what the proportions are.]] I understand that the proportions are not favourable to you, but the Hungarian voters have gone, voted and established these rates. Be kind to live with this fact until the next election. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] I don't mean to make jokes, but the number I've got right now is gonna look big to you. [[Defiance on the pro-government side.]] But as far as the specific question is concerned, think again about the fact that you really want what you asked for here. 'Cause what's tao? That's the corporate income tax. The corporate income tax is collected by the government and then passed on for public purposes, such as health care. For example, we have now established an epidemiological fund worth more than EUR 2 billion. If we don't take it, it'll go somewhere else. In sports and earlier in culture, but now only in sports, the state gives up on this so that it doesn't come into the budget, but goes to the sports associations. If you want Tao money not to be distributed by the government between health institutions, such as hospitals, but by entrepreneurs, there will be a chaotic situation where one hospital has more money and the other has less money. [[Noise on the opposition side. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It's true now.]] But if you want and seriously believe that companies' taxes should not be distributed by the government to hospitals, but by entrepreneurs themselves, you should submit your proposals on this and we should discuss it seriously. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-98	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-99	Prime Minister, as you know, Hungarian health is suffering from a lack of resources. You know that, because if you didn't, you wouldn't have to wait 15 months in Marcali for an eye exam, you wouldn't have to pay off the debts of our hospitals every year, there would be tiles on the wall, and the elevator would work. So tao money would have a place in health care. And since you haven't answered exactly my question, allow me to ask you again. Do you support the proposal to offer corporate tax to public health institutions in addition to visual sports? We presented this proposal three weeks ago, which all opposition parties can wholeheartedly support. So please, Prime Minister, make it clear: yes or no? The Hungarian people are waiting for an honoured response. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-27-100	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
u2020-04-27-101	I look forward to the debate by the Parliamentary Commission on the proposal, where we can listen to all the arguments in this regard and we are ready to consider it. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-102	Thank you very much, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question:. In view of current trends in Europe, is it expected that Hungarian citizens can travel abroad without restrictions for work purposes and that Hungarian companies can deliver goods free of restrictions? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-04-27-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Mr. Prime Minister, Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! 2020 will probably be a memorable year for all of us, since we haven't seen such a global epidemic in a hundred years. CHAPTER XXI 20th century globalisation, technical and technological change, increasing economic competition, changing people's lifestyle, the world's global village has shown that a virus from distant Wuhan can cause a pandemic in a few weeks, a few months. Dear Parliament, I see that the Hungarian government has taken its strict measures to control the epidemic in time, making important and correct decisions. CXXVIII of 2001 Disaster Protection Act 49. In accordance with Article 4 of the Act, measures which the government, the executive authority, may take in emergency situations have been taken to the extent necessary and to the extent necessary. I think these measures were important to all of us. Curfew restrictions, banning events, changing education, limiting and banning traffic on roads, air travel, rail and water were all important decisions for the Hungarian government to control the epidemic. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, to thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for its efforts and to pay tribute to both the return of Hungarian citizens and the purchase of protective equipment. This epidemic is not over yet, but a lot of people are asking me from my constituency, and that is to say, Minister, given the current trends in Europe, what is expected of Hungarian citizens to travel abroad for work purposes, and of the restrictions on the transport of Hungarian companies abroad in the coming weeks and months. Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Peter Szijjártó. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-04-27-105	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, the restrictive measures taken by European countries at their land borders in terms of passenger traffic are all legitimate, since our primary task and duty is to protect human life and health. We know precisely that by reducing contact numbers, the speed of the spread of the virus can also be reduced, and to this goal it has been agreed that only Hungarian citizens can enter Hungary in passenger traffic, except transit. At the same time, we must also make it clear that our economic interest is to ensure continuous, slow and unrestricted international trade in goods, as this is essential for maintaining the functioning of the Hungarian economy and for supplying the Hungarian people. Last year, Hungary made EUR 43 billion in trade flows with neighbouring countries, so we are obviously interested in the continuity of international trade in goods. At the same time, it is also in our interest to maintain an extremely dense network of contacts between border communities, which is why we have worked for many years. Therefore, from the seven neighbouring countries six, honourable Member, we have agreed to open the possibility of commuting to Hungarian citizens and citizens of neighbouring countries. Thus, with the exception of Ukraine, this already works with six neighbouring countries, with Croatia at all seven border crossing points for Slovakia, Austria and Romania at ten border crossing points. The good news is that we also reached an agreement with Serbia last week, so at the three border crossing points opened for international freight traffic, Prince Szántó, Tompa and Röszke it was possible to cross the border between commuting Serb and Hungarian citizens. At the request of local communities, we also increased the number of crossing points for commuters to Austria by two last week. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thus, at the border crossing point at the pan-European picnic and at the old border crossing point in Hegyeshalm, both Hungarian and Austrian citizens can now cross the border crossing point for work and farming purposes. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-106	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-107	Minister, thank you very much for your reply. Indeed, many people around the border are affected by the promotion of commuting and the resuscitation of local border traffic. This also means the continuation of life. These decisions are very important, and I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is also acting so carefully on this issue. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, of course, the epidemic has not passed. We can see various mitigating measures in different countries. I would like to point out the example of Singapore, where perhaps a little earlier, and the migrant workers brought the virus back to the city state again. [[13.30]] I strongly recommend the principles of careful caution and gradualness. However, let me add one more thought: the principle well-known from kungfu, which I have been practicing for 26 years: it is the principle of simultaneous defence and attack. I am pleased that the government is also using this, because not only has it acquired protective equipment, but it has also launched an attack on the epidemic, as it is also making serious attempts to produce a vaccine. I trust these will also be successful. I wish you more strength and health for your hard work. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-27-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-04-27-109	Honourable Congressman, Previously, it has been said many times that the competitive disadvantage for Central Europe is that while in the western part of the continent the border can be legally crossed every 2.5 to 3 kilometres, in this region the average distance between border crossing points is over 40 kilometres. Now, however, we really need to be careful, because the rate of spread of the virus must be reduced, but at the same time it should be possible for the citizens of the Hungarian and neighbouring states to commute for work and agriculture. Therefore, I respectfully inform you that we are currently negotiating the opening of new crossing points for this purpose. In particular, on the basis of the request of local communities, we would like to open the border crossing point and the border crossing point in Gynanádaska from Slovak colleagues in terms of commuting, and we have not given up the fight that you have mentioned, in order to be able to agree with Ukrainian colleagues on the possibility of crossing the border between Hungary and Ukraine, Hungary and Transcarpathia. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-27-110	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Sándor Székely, an independent Member, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: When do they give money to people? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-04-27-111	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, In Hungary, there was a social crisis even before the outbreak, but this is now becoming more serious. By April, the number of job seekers in Hungary has already increased to 320,000, representing 7-8 percent of the active working population. The redundancies therefore started after the announcement of the emergency and the restrictive measures. We will probably reach it, and perhaps we will also exceed 10% of unemployment. If what you have said in the last ten years is true, that the economic canaan is here, and it has never been better for the workers in Hungary, then the Hungarian population would now be able to get through its reserves, which you have so many times referred to as the crisis, and everything could go on as the disaster has passed. But it's not like that. Regardless of party standing, many hundreds of thousands or even millions of Hungarians do not know what they will bring to them in the coming months, even years. To halt the chain reaction of social collapse, people need to be given money. The only way to mitigate threats to health, labour, education, housing and other disasters is through income measures, which is clear as day. I ask the Prime Minister when, considering the proposal of Yes Solidarity, they give the people in need the right minimum income, i.e. 100 thousand forints per month, and when will the family allowance finally be 37 500 forints, and when will the minimum wage be 200,000 forints. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-27-112	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-04-27-113	I'm wondering if I wasn't here in the last few minutes, or if you weren't here. We will now discuss this issue for the fourth time, which is about what the government's economic crisis management strategy is. You keep talking about how money should be distributed without work coverage, and we keep talking about creating jobs where people can earn the income that they and their families need for their livelihoods; one leads to and the other leads to. You can ask me ten times why we don't go there if we don't want a aid-based economy, but a work-based economy. We are going to go in this direction, and it may seem excessive on my part, but I am asking you, although we do not agree, and you obviously want to hand out aids, and we want to create jobs, but if you can, support our economic policy and crisis management solutions. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-27-114	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-115	Prime Minister, unfortunately, I have to say that it is very difficult for me to do this, because you are the prime minister of a government who has worked here for the last ten years and has achieved that firefighters have to install electricity on weekends, nurses have to work three shifts and teachers have to clean up on weekends so that they can feed their family members and pay their costs. That's why I asked you, not about the epidemic, but about when you're gonna be in this country, when you're gonna think we're gonna get people to get normal wages for normal work. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-27-116	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, you have a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-04-27-117	Dear fellow Member, You didn't start the business today. I could give you an impressive list of when, in which party you turned. But I'm saying this not out of sarcasm, but because it's a factual question that you've been able to follow through the economic policy debates of the past 15-20 years, no doubt as a supporter of the left-wing governments. But perhaps party sympathy could be overwritten by the simple fact that in 2010, when governments supported by you handed over government power, unemployment in Hungary was 12 percent. Before the recent coronal virus epidemic, unemployment in Hungary was 3.3 percent. This is a fairly obvious difference, and at least it provides us with the basis to let us believe and try to remedy the economic crisis in the way that we have done in the last ten years, and we have done it with excellent success from unemployment data. We have no reason to change our policy of building a work-based economy. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-27-118	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title "The Issues of the Current." Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-04-27-119	Prime Minister, it would indeed be good to cooperate in times of crisis, but there are fundamental conditions for this. For example, the government does not abuse its power, that it is politically honest and that it is telling the truth. So please help me clear things up on a few issues. Here is the first question, the tragedy on Pesti Road, which you apparently use as a political tool to discredit your political opponent. If that were not the case, Prime Minister, then, for example, because of the tragedy at the state hospital in Tatabánya or because of the tragedy currently taking place in the state institution in Pécsilas, you would be personally responsible and would be a sure investigation against the government and its members. I don't think it's normal; while the media that supports you and you are now killing the mayor, specifically, literally. Prime Minister, there's nothing in private warehouses. We went to see it, but there's a lot of stuff in private storage, and it's been weeks. You're wearing a mask and the highest possible immunity mask in hospitals, making about PR videos, you must have sewn them at home, as you said the other day, but today there was a doctor in West Hungary who said that they had three masks, Prime Minister, the others were bought at AliExpress and bought at their own expense. It's not okay, Prime Minister. You say that you don't owe the country any debt, but what we see is that you're taking on 750 billion forints of Chinese credit. What we're seeing is that last week, 700 billion forints of bonds were issued, and I don't see him telling the truth either. Finally, you say that you can't go alone, that this can only be solved with the municipalities. Then why are you taking money from them, Prime Minister, when they're on the same front line as hospitals and social homes? So they need money, not take. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-04-27-120	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-04-27-121	It's been so peacefully flowing... I'm doing everything I can to ensure that the Pest Road irregularities don't dominate internal politics until the epidemic is over. Therefore, I propose that, as has been the case, the authorities should do their job, explore the events, be it at any point in the country, and continue political debate on the issue of responsibility when the epidemic is over. But perhaps the fact that 10 percent of the deceased were found in one institution, the Pesti Road Institution, makes this situation understandable. [[13.40]] Therefore, I think that we should write to ourselves how we will talk about this here at the end of the crisis. The authorities do their job, and the politicians are trying to find a way to cooperate. As far as equipment in hospitals is concerned, I can tell you with full responsibility that every hospital has one week's supply of all the equipment needed to protect it. I check this every day, I listen to the overall report of the hospital commanders every day, which makes it clear that every hospital needs a week's supply of protection now is not even available for one week, but for ten days. Any statement contrary to that statement is factually false. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-122	Thank you, Prime Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-123	Thank you very much for the floor. It's a little strong, though, when a prime minister lies to the doctors, tells a lie. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] The social workers, he's lying to the GPs. That's what they said, not us. (Interjections from the ranks of the governing parties.) Mr. Prime Minister! We heard more about the Pesti Road event and the subsequent political witch hunt than the waterproof report. If you don't think this is a political circus, then what is it? You also told Mónika Dunai that you are the president of Fidesz, that today we should not dissect this topic with an immediate question, and bring political responsibility, I think, to bring something else. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] If you were to be honest with me? Finally, Prime Minister: you know, the biggest problem in many of us is that the question mark for honest cooperation is that the news is still coming that they are starting to spread the Balaton; that the laws are still being passed in Parliament from the Budapest-Belgrade railway line; that everyone else is still in it. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] The question arises that the 80-90 million and I don't know how much protective equipment [[The president's ringing again.]] it happens to business in this country or not, and if it doesn't, when it really gets to people. That's the problem, Prime Minister. Thank you for listening.
u2020-04-27-124	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The Prime Minister is entitled to a rejoinder. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
u2020-04-27-125	It is not the first time that we have spoken to the Member here, and I have observed that almost every time he thinks about the issue of lack of credibility. That doesn't surprise me; now I quote you literally from your interview with a newspaper:. This party did everything on government between 2002 and 2010 and the opposite, and the voters didn't forget this. Moreover, in the last third of our government, we have made the biggest mistake that a political party can make: we have betrayed our own voters. You're the one who said it. As long as we can't account for it on our way out, no one listens to us. Don't be surprised if I don't. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-126	Dear Parliament, Thank you for the Prime Minister's reply. Zoltán Varga, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. How many Hungarian lives and misery are on the soul of the Orbán government? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I'm asking you, do you accept the identity of the responder... [[For signal:]] You have the floor, Congressman. [[Several Members are leaving the meeting room.]] I would also ask my fellow Members, if they wish to leave the Chamber, to do so quietly. Thank you for your understanding. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-27-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I think we can agree that in recent days, the government's decision to send thousands of Hungarian patients home from hospitals has caused deep indignation and great alarm. Of course, we officially know the answer to the corona virus, but everyone knows that this answer is something, not true. We know that patients with cancer, paralyzed, amputated, or recently operated on the streets, people who, despite their greatest will, cannot be professionally cared for at home. And we know of a number of other cases when serious patients were sent home without any particular consideration, creating an impossible, desperate, often life - threatening and tragic situation. This is clearly your fault, your responsibility. And we can see that, as they sensed the rightful indignation of society, there came the repeatedly redesigned party propaganda, and the setesuta explanations. First, the doctors will decide who to send home, which, let's face it, is vague enough to explain. Then they started doing arithmetic, and they said that basically only 1,300 patients had to be thrown out of the hospital. Only 1,300. Secretary of State, this means 1300 lives, or the same death at a given moment, and certainly 1300 deserted, desperate Hungarian families. 1300: this is the new topic for you. It's just that no one believes that anymore. They don't believe what they're asking. Your souls, please, are burdened with human lives. The misery of Hungarians is on your conscience. Secretary of State, that's why I'm asking you: how many Hungarians have actually been expelled from hospitals, specifically from which hospital, in what settlements? Did you perform any viral tests on the patients before they were sent home? Information has been provided to the local government of the place of residence of patients [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Or do you think they're gonna send these patients home? How many people do you know have died in the absence of care, how many people have gone back to hospitals because they've gotten worse? [[The president's ringing again.]] Are you aware that doctors are being forced to refuse their Hippocratic oaths and decide whether or not to dump patients or lose their jobs? I'm looking forward to your honest, confessional response. Thank you. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-04-27-128	Congressman, I would like to inform you that you have two minutes to answer the immediate question. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-27-129	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, This is a bold statement from a member of a party whose head closed hospitals [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] ,16,000 hospital beds were demolished and, in addition, took a month's salary from all health care workers in Hungary. When Schöpf-Mere Hospital or Buda Children's Hospital was closed, you asked the same questions, Congressman? When the OPNI was closed, did you or any of your fellow parties think about these questions that you just asked us? In Hungary, the professional decision and medical decision are made in hospitals during the coronal virus epidemic, in any case decided by the treating physician. In order to help them, you can read fully publicly on the website of the ÁEEK, like everyone else, the 62 professional college resolutions that, following the guidelines of the Scientific Council for Health, tell all physicians, describe to all physicians exactly what treatment should be used, who can be dismissed, and who needs further treatment. Not for the government, not for anyone else, but for the doctors, 62 professional colleges describe in detail what to do during a coronal virus epidemic. It's completely public, everyone can read it, read it for weeks, they're on the AEEK website. In the event that someone did not act according to these professional expectations and dismissed a patient who should not have been dismissed, but should have been treated further in the hospital, we would ask the hospital director to contact the hospital director, to contact the patient's representative. I consulted with the head of patient rights representatives last week; not only will they seek to investigate the cases, but they will also seek action in the meantime if they experience a case where someone has been dismissed from the hospital on the basis of inadequate medical justification; and they can turn to the medical services, precisely so that if a mistake has occurred, it can be corrected. But we provide hospital care to everyone who needs it, which is why we have published this 62 professional college resolution. Honourable Congressman, That's why the free has grown, and that's why [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the number of hospital beds that can be used for patients with coronary viruses, because the planned surgeries have been delayed, and a lot of people have asked for the procedure to be carried out later. I'll continue from here. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-130	Thank you very much for the Secretary of State's reply. The congressman is entitled to a rejoinder in a minute. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-131	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, The Prime Minister repeatedly wondered whether my colleague was here or not. Now I wonder at you too: was he even here when I asked you? I asked you more questions, you didn't answer one question. You pulled out this old, crappy, crunchy piece of crap again, the last eight years of ten years. The thing is, it's very difficult to defend yourself with that. [[13.50]] It's very difficult to explain to the hospital directors that you fired, precisely because you refused to carry out the military plans that you gave them. I think that sooner or later you will have to account for it not with me, not with hospital directors, but with Hungarian society. People who are now desperate to think about how their sick parents, grandparents, are going to be able to handle them when they do not have the qualifications. Mr Secretary, you must prepare for this, not for the past eight years in Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of independents and dialogue.]]
u2020-04-27-132	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-04-27-133	I would like to say for as many as 30-quarters, honourable Member, that anyone who needs hospitalisation must continue to be provided with this hospital care, and that is absolutely natural. And I also ask you, as in the case of Orosháza, when it was written in laps and you were outraged that someone had passed away because he had been discharged from the hospital, that as a patient he had not been provided, I beg you not to spread these false news, because it turns out that the person was offered to continue his hospitalization in the nursing ward, but he refused to do so himself. And then you guys cried out in laps that there was a fatality here, precisely because the state wants to provide hospital beds for patients with a coronary virus in hospitals. But because I see that you were most interested in my speech in the period of your own governance, let me tell you that you reduced the salaries of doctors and nurses here with your own vote: Gergely Arató, Ferenc Gyurcsány, Lajos Oláh and Ágnes Vadai, and István Hiller, Lajos Korózs, Attila Mesterházy, Gyula Molnár, Zsolt Molnár and Sándor Burány from the benches sitting next to you. They took me from all doctors and nurses working in Hungary [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] A month's wages. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-27-134	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: "Don't let the people be the victims of the government's bad decisions. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-04-27-135	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Minister, Over the last ten years, we have become accustomed to the fact that Fidesz has always had an enemy image, and unfortunately we have seen that the current enemy has been embodied in the municipalities in recent times. In recent years, the municipalities have been hit by a series of decisions. The financial result of this is higher than the revenue loss of HUF 21 billion for the 23 districts in Budapest only. And I think they didn't stop here, because where they saw, the chips are falling, they keep saying. Technically, Budapest XII. in the district of Pokorni, the protective equipment ordered by Zoltán Pokorni was seized for state purposes, even though we know that after the supply system, the strongest leg of defense is the municipality. The municipality, which provides public disinfection, the care of the quarantined patients, the care of the elderly. And I think that if the municipalities were to be treated as partners, because a successful municipality should be treated as a partner, then they should praise the extraordinary pension in Ferencváros, the social fund in Józsefváros; they could even commend entrepreneurship grants in Budavár, and, yes, praise the permanent food purchase programme of the Fidesz-led city government. On the other hand, you are removing revenue from the municipalities, and it is right to ask whether the municipalities can expect any assistance from the State. Any help, for we know precisely that, as I have already said, from the protection of the elderly, the care of patients, the care of those likely to be sick and quarantined, and clearly from the operation of the social system, the municipalities are taking a heavy part. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I look forward to your respectful response and I look forward to your reply.
u2020-04-27-136	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister Gergely Gulyás. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-04-27-137	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I am trying to meet your demand for the answer, but I would like to point out from the beginning that we have had to experience in the last ten years that many people see us as enemies, that does not mean that we would view anyone else as enemies. We have political opponents, and we believe that it is in the best interests of the country not to create an extremely diverse government coalition in the country, which can do a lot of things, but certainly not to govern the country, but we have never confused the opponents with the enemies. As regards the defence and the involvement of the local authorities in this, I would like to inform Mr. We gave masks to district councils, and I shared masks with Mayor Pokorni and Minister Simicskó on the XII. in the district. So if you'd like to see a good example of cooperation, I suggest that the XII. Take a look at district practice. As far as the task of the local government is concerned, I have not only said it on several occasions, but also Prime Minister has made it clear that we count on the municipalities as an ally in the fight against the epidemic, and this obviously means that we are also taking on burdens together. At a time when the trade sector's shutdown represents a GDP loss of HUF 200 billion per week, it may not be considered excessive that local governments have contributed to the defence by some HUF 34 billion, which is car tax and parking. But let's be honest, that's part of the defense, and I think we can now call it a proven, correct measure with two weeks' experience that fewer people are on buses and community transport where the risk of infection is much higher. I believe that the government has not placed at all a disproportionate burden on the municipalities which they cannot bear and, in particular, has not imposed a burden which the government would not bear in dealing with the economic crisis. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-27-138	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return, please.
u2020-04-27-139	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Minister, Your sentences sound very nice, but we have learned from Prime Minister that we are not looking at what they are saying, but we are looking at what they are doing and what they are doing is clearly making the municipalities impossible financially. 'Cause in addition to the car tax, I think stopping parking was a professional mistake, beyond the fact that it's a problem for the people living here. What was the right decision was the mandatory use of masks imposed by the City Council on BKV flights, and I think that this is the right decision. However, I would like to ask with great respect that if the Fidesz-led XII. You shared masks from state resources in the district, because, as I understand it, you informed me of this when the remaining 22 districts could count on you to assist the districts in their social and defence work. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-27-140	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
u2020-04-27-141	Thank you for the floor. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Congressman, I can tell you that the municipal contribution is HUF 34 billion, so that, by the way, the local government budget has increased by several hundred billion forints in recent years, and it is now some 1800 billion forints of which municipalities manage annually. Therefore, this cannot be considered excessive. In the case of parking: I drive in Budapest, it's as easy to park as it has been recently, so it doesn't cause such a great deal of difficulty. It's a lot harder to park at any time when there's no such crisis, and when your car is being used by a lot more people. And I think it's a common interest, and it's a good thing that if we agree with him, I've taken it out of his words that maybe that's the case that the fewer people on the BKV, the lower the risk of infection. Mr. Mayor called and informed me of his plans to regulate masking in shops and in the case of Budapest Transport Company. I have indicated that we are in agreement and that we can support this. I do not consider the legal basis for this decision to be examined either, because there is a cooperation and a common defence, so the most important thing is that now the state, the government, and where that is justified and within the legal framework, it is there. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] the decisions of local authorities should also be carried out by citizens with the utmost discipline. I would like to thank you for the fact that this has mostly happened in the last month and a half. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-27-142	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellár, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. What is going on? It's an address. Minister Tállai has given Mr András Deputy Minister the right to reply because of his absence. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2020-04-27-143	I'll take it.
u2020-04-27-144	Yeah. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-27-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear fellow Members, Dear Secretary of State, I ask you why there was a need to double the framework for foreign exchange bond issuance, from EUR 2 billion to EUR 4 billion. [[14.00]] Why did the Government Debt Manager issue a government bond worth EUR 2 billion on 23 April? I ask this because, in recent times, you have heard a lot about the fact that the Hungarian economy is strong and even the strongest in Europe, because it is able to achieve 5 percent economic growth, the Hungarian economy is competitive, the high growth rate does not threaten to break the external balance, the external trade balance and the balance of payments are absolutely fine. We have also heard the Prime Minister say many times that it is undesirable for the budget to be indebted to foreign currency, because then we are exposed to foreign market conditions and even speculation. Now, if that's the case, then the extra budget expenditure due to the crisis would clearly be financed by issuing forint bonds, wouldn't it? That's what comes out of government logic. But that's not what it looks like. So why is it necessary to issue foreign exchange bonds? Or has it turned out, in the meantime, that the Hungarian economy is not so strong and competitive and that the foreign trade balance and current account may be deteriorating? Because of the fact that the majority of foreign-owned companies, car manufacturers, which are the vast majority of exports, are now not very productive, because those working abroad are not very able to transfer money home, because EU funds are also running thinner. So the Hungarian economy is not so strong after all? Thank you very much.
u2020-04-27-146	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-147	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I could do it with a sentence. There wouldn't have been a need to issue foreign currency sovereign bonds if there hadn't been a pandemic. Then I'll explain to you in more detail why this is necessary. The pandemic affects Europe, Hungary. Not only health first, of course, the health and life of people, it also has an economic impact. The government has taken the necessary steps in the first round. The result is as follows. It has created two funds, an economic protection fund and a health fund, which has moved over HUF 2000 billion in the budget. As a consequence, the planned budget deficit of 1 per cent had to be increased to 2.7 per cent. Obviously, there is also a need for funding here. It was also necessary to take into account the situation on the market. The government's aim and to date has not given up on the need to reduce foreign exchange exposure. The result so far was 53 percent in 2011, and now below 20 percent, 17.7 percent. Otherwise, the exposure does not increase significantly with this output, nor does the percentage increase. Therefore, when there is a need for financing, it should be taken into account that private individuals do not purchase government bonds or have reduced value. That is why it was necessary to think about entering the international market without any EU bank support and simply looking at the acceptance of the Hungarian economy, the credibility of the Hungarian state, the confidence of international investors in the Hungarian budget and the result. The result will be that 2 billion bonds have been registered. The answer is yes, they do. And I'm going to go on with why this was even financially beneficial to the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-27-148	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-149	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I did not question whether this EUR 2 billion issue of government bonds was a success or not, or whether it was necessary or not. I think that yes, it was necessary, and I also think that it was successful. My question was not about this, but about the fact that if the Hungarian economy is so strong and there is no external market balance problem, then why did it have to be issued in foreign currency and not issued in forints. Obviously, this is about not having enough Hungarian savings, so savings have decreased significantly. At the same time, if there is a 3-percent general government deficit, it means that, since households do not have any savings, it would not be desirable to expect the corporate sector to have savings, so the general government deficit will cause the imbalances in the external trade balance. In this situation, when the forint is weakening, there is a need to issue sovereign debt, government bonds, i.e. an admission that unfortunately the Hungarian economy is still on very weak footing. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-27-150	Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian economy would be weak if the bond had not been written down. The exact opposite has happened, precisely in this situation the international investors on the market trust in the Hungarian state even during a pandemic, during an economic crisis, and that is why the bond worth EUR 2 billion was registered. Moreover, the Hungarian state, the budget, does have expenditure in euro. So, obviously, this is a backup, it proves and guarantees the multi-legged state of funding. You would have been entitled to stand here if the Hungarian State had shown up on the market with the possibility of issuing eurobonds and it was not otherwise recorded. Then he could have stood up and told us to think about what was happening. Now, if you think about it, the issue of bonds, the financing of several legs was necessary, and this does not mean that the Hungarian State will also renounce the reduction of foreign currency exposure and the reduction of public debt. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-27-152	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Csenger-Zalán, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question:. Planezie the Government to expand the current investment promotion system? It's an address. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-04-27-153	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Last week we were pleased to hear that one of the leading US service companies, Support Services Group, will set up a regional customer service office in Hungary, S2 G Kft. will thus be able to employ more than 300 employees by the end of this year. This investment is a particularly positive development with regard to the fact that we are talking about a company that has so far established centres only on the American continent. The fact that a leading American company has chosen Budapest as the location of its first European unit is a significant achievement for the Hungarian economy. This is an objective feedback that Hungary is an attractive target for foreign investors. Confirming that, thanks to a decade of disciplined, competent economic policy of the government, the Hungarian economy, which has been brought back from deep flight, is able to demonstrate sufficient stability even in a time of crisis. This is why I find it ironic that today the most vocal criticisms of the government's economic policy are those whose government has once brought the country to the brink of bankruptcy, who demand the government to distribute aid, while in 2008 they themselves were able to avoid the worst by harsh cuts, cost cuts of 300 billion and leasing freezes. The current government had to raise the country from here. Fortunately, fiscal discipline and transition to a work-based society have brought fruit. The government can now make an action plan that will cost HUF 9200 billion to the economy in the coming years. In view of this, I would like to ask you, the government plans to expand the existing investment promotion system, and we can also expect additional foreign companies to decide on investment in Hungary. Thank you. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-27-154	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade Péter Szijjártó. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-04-27-155	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Member, I would like to inform you that, despite the pandemic, in the first quarter of this year, we were able to register 17 investment decisions that were created through the investment promotion agency and are about investments in Hungary, new factories, new centres and new jobs. [[14.10]] Based on the data of the first quarter, these 17 new investments amounted to HUF 112 billion in Hungary, resulting in 1434 new jobs. Much of these investment decisions were made when the pandemic was unfortunately with us. I would like to inform you that, although most investment volumes were brought to Hungary by German companies in the first quarter of this year, more than half of the jobs created are linked to investors from the East, South Korea and India. The automotive sector, the automotive industry, is often pitied by many people, compared with two thirds of the investments made in the first quarter, the remainder, and most of them came to Hungary in the business service sector employing multi-lingual graduates with very high added value. I would also like to inform you, honourable Member, that, yes, we have also put in place a new investment promotion system alongside the one already in place, a new one, in which we can grant aid to companies wishing to invest up to EUR 800 000 without an EU investigation, so that the intensity of the aid can reach half of the amount invested. The EU notification of this new option has been completed. I respectfully inform you that 40 companies have already applied for this entirely new investment support option, which clearly shows how the type of economic philosophy that seeks to address economic challenges through job creation in this difficult situation works. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-156	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. The congressman has a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-157	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply and thank you for reporting on the results from week to week. Here from the opposition, I believe we have heard several times today that this is seen as a kind of production conference. I think that it is possible to talk about a production meeting when there are results, and yes, there are results. So when the opposition says that, I see it as a kind of praise. In their time, there wasn't much to talk about, uh, restrictions, failures. I would particularly like to thank the Government and the Foreign Affairs Wallet for their ability to participate in both the procurement of protective equipment and the re-launch of the economy. I wish you good production meetings. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-158	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Minister. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-04-27-159	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, You also asked me how new large investments could be expected. The answer to that is yes. Honourable Congressman, We are discussing with several major international companies another mass job-creating investment in Hungary, who are already partly here in Hungary, and in part could appear as a new player. We do not give up our goal at all to offer the most attractive investment conditions in Central Europe to international and Hungarian companies, even in the current circumstances. In order to ensure that adequate financial incentives are available, we have launched a new notification with the European Commission, in which we ask that we be able to grant investment promotion aids over EUR 800 000 without an EU investigation during the rampage of the Crown Virus. I think it is time for the European Commission to finally give Member States the opportunity to support public investment now that we need to save jobs in danger and create new jobs instead of lost ones. We hope that the European Commission will share this position. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-160	I thank you, Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask you, do you accept the identity of the responding person, or personally from Minister...
u2020-04-27-161	Thank you very much, but we'd like to wait for Minister, if there's still a minister. [[Delight and applause in the ranks of Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-27-162	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that Minister must answer at the hour of the second immediate question. Dear Parliament, One second, please. Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister of National Property Management an immediate question:. What does Madam Minister think about this? It's an address. Minister János Fónagy, State Secretary, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask Congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-27-163	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Well, let's see who and what they're using the emergency under the radar for. The oligarchs near the government are no longer satisfied with the purchase of campsites and hotels, now they have their eyes on the sailing ports of Balaton. You can see that in recent weeks, Lőrinc Mészáros and István Tiborcz's companies have received two billion forints for the development of sailing ports in Balaton, while Hungarians do not have protective equipment. You claim that Lake Balaton belongs to everyone, and in the meantime Balaton Shipping Company. By dismembering them, they arrived at another milestone. Slowly and slowly we get to the point where the Balaton Shipping Company. in the case of a company with a history of 170 years, a full downtrip occurs. We can see that in the municipalities, when two years had not yet passed and this company was exclusively owned by the municipalities, the aim was to keep it together, and that is what the municipalities voted for. And now it's not even two years since you've acquired a 75% share of your property in this company, and you already think you can do anything. They can do anything and do not come forward with the reasons why the municipalities did not comply with their capital increase obligation. We all know we're not blind, we can see the script, that's still the goal. This is the reorganisation plan, which is now Balaton Hajózási Zrt. He lies in front of his general assembly, all he talks about is the landing of the sailboats in Balaton. We can talk about how they're gonna rationalize and how it's gonna be better for the Balaton cruise. Believe me, no. There is nothing else here, this reorganisation plan is the death sentence of the Balaton shipping. Is that what you're assisting me with, Secretary of State? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-27-164	Thank you. Dear Parliament, The immediate question will be answered by Secretary of State János Fó Nagy. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-04-27-165	[[You'll start your answer without making a sound.]] Thank you, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Thank you for asking, as the only carpenter in the government... [[Intercoms: The microphone doesn't work. You can't hear it.]]
u2020-04-27-166	Excuse me, Mr. Secretary, there's no sound.
u2020-04-27-167	I'm reporting, I'm working.
u2020-04-27-168	It's working, yeah, it's fine. Reset the clock, please. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-04-27-169	Thank you very much. Thank you for this question, as the only member of a boat-building carpenter in the government, I am very close to sailing. Thank you so much for the question, because if I look around in the horseshoe, then I see that there are two of us here, who were at that government meeting in, 98, when the government decided on fundamental issues in Balatonfüred, so on the issue of sailing in Balaton, fishing in Balaton and the distance of the Balaton tourism. At that time, the government, listening to the municipalities, decided to hand the shipping company to Balaton into the hands of the municipalities. For this reason, and please don't tell me not to talk about it, let's talk about it. In return, they undertook to maintain, operate and develop the shipping company. That didn't happen. It didn't happen, and please don't tell me it's because the municipalities are in debt. Yes, they were indebted to you during the time of your current friends; the current government has spoken to local governments and has made it operational by virtually HUF 1300 to 1350 billion. So the municipalities had freedom of choice and had the opportunity to decide what their money would be spent on. They didn't spend it on the Balaton shipping company. [[14.20]] Then there was a multi-annual meeting with the municipalities. After all, in view of the position of the shipping company, the government authorised the Minister responsible for the state assets, and the Minister authorised the Hungarian National Asset Manager to agree with the municipalities to return the shares for the sum of HUF 1 billion HUF 424 million. This is how the shipping company came back under the state's provisions, for which the Hungarian Tourism Agency has been designated. I don't see anything wrong with that. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-170	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-171	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, these are a lot of words, but everyone knows what's behind this: nothing but the transfer of the Balaton sailing ports to the oligarchs near the government. You can talk about illusions here, but we can see what's happening. Meanwhile, mayors raise their voices, such as Róbert Lengyel, Siófok, who is the mayor of Mahart. He also said that it is not possible to allow Mahart Zrt. to be dismembered, because it is the most profitable, the most profitable business of this company. If this is removed, then Balaton Shipping Ltd. is over; because that is not the goal. And it is possible to say why the capital increase was not granted. That's because they didn't have a source. But the goal was, in any case, to keep this company together. Mayor Róbert Lengyel asked the Balaton Alliance to stand up and say that at least certain measures of this reorganisation plan need to be reviewed. And now, together with my fellow Members, Lajos Rig and Ádám Steinmetz, I would like to ask the members of the Parliament of Balaton, Mihály Witzmann, Károly Kontra, Attila Móring József, Zoltán Fenyvesi and Jenő Manninger, to stand up for the Balaton navigators and not assist in dismembering, assisting in the migration of the port of sails near the government to the oligarchs of Balaton. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-27-172	Thank you, Congresswoman. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-27-173	Thank you, Mr. President. The list in my hand lists 30 ports in Balaton, all 30 ports owned by the state. Everything else, Congresswoman, is an assumption and a hypothesis that is currently lacking a basis. Another issue is that, regardless of the events of the last two decades, Mahart is, of course, struggling with the fact that it could not begin this season, for example, because of the known circumstances; it is known that it has to cope with these economic difficulties; it is known that it has developmental ideas. Exactly the port of Siófok you are referring to is under development after a century of Sleeping Beauty dream, including the Sió channel, which is vital for the daily existence and operation of Lake Balaton, its water quality and use. So please don't predict a disaster for Lake Balaton and the companies that operate there. There's a future for both of them. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-174	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, András Aradszki, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "What is the financial basis for the control of the Crown Virus? It's an address. Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. András Tállai has given him the right to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity.
u2020-04-27-175	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I accept, of course.
u2020-04-27-176	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-04-27-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Deputy Minister, The past period has made us all miserable from the point of view that we are in the fight against a coronal virus. This is a life-changing period, and our country may be facing one of its greatest challenges since the change of regime. The Fidesz-KDNP government must primarily address the immediate life-threatening effects of the pandemic, because human life is the most important. On the other hand, it is an important task to reinvigorate the economy, keep jobs as far as possible and create new jobs, and to strengthen the situation of families, businesses and workers. Economic protection measures have been taken in this context. In addition, immediate financial decisions had to be taken. Such were the moratorium on credit repayment, the suspension of executions, auctions and the help of sectors that were immediately in trouble as a result of the epidemic. The government's current epidemiological and economic protection measures have had a serious impact on the budget. The purchase of medical devices, such as protective masks, protective equipment, breathing equipment and strengthening of our healthcare system, made an outstanding amount of money. Dear Secretary of State, For our part, on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, the Hungarian Government's work will be supported, and we will continue to provide it in the future. In recent weeks, much information has been published in the press on the costs of the epidemic, their sources and how this affects the Hungarian budget. The task is enormous, as is the expectation, so we must overcome all this virus epidemic so that our common achievements so far are not lost. That's why I respectfully ask you, what is the financial basis for the control of the coronal virus? Did the incomes provide for this? What's the state of the budget now? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-178	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-179	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I think that the government has made effective decisions in time on what can be done in relation to the control of the epidemic. On the one hand, from a health point of view, the government established the protection fund against the epidemic and, on the other hand, examined its economic impact and first established the economic protection fund. Here I would like to name another fund, which exists on behalf of the European Union, which is the basis for the anti-epidemic aid, for which we are eager to receive the money from the European Union. And if you'll allow me, I'd also like to give you a fourth fund, which is the amount of money left in businesses by the tax reduction. Honourable Congressman, The government raised the budget deficit from 1 percent to 2.7 percent. It is important that the government remains below 3 percent at present, so that we meet the European Union's expectations, and hopefully international investors will also tolerate this effort for the government. The government has created the anti-epidemic defense fund with HUF 630 billion, a significant part of which has already been spent buying protective equipment. In addition, the National Defence Fund, which is a significant part of the budget, has been transformed into a so-called central reserve for the control of the epidemic. In the event of a death risk, if the decisions taken are not sufficient, it is the central reserve for the control of the disease that provides additional funding against the protection. 'Cause let's not forget, we're still in the fight against the epidemic. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-180	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I'll give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I am pleased to hear that the government is continuing to pursue the disciplined fiscal policy that has been ours over the last decade, which has provided assurance for the economic policy that has created a job that has served as a base for economic growth. I believe that this disciplined fiscal policy does not prevent us from continuing to take measures to protect jobs, while maintaining our action plan to protect jobs. An important part of this is the tax reduction policy, which, in parallel with the above-mentioned fiscal policy, shows that the Hungarian economy has the power to protect jobs and also to provide cover for the financing of the top-up defence fund. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-182	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-183	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to continue with the economic security fund, which the government has also created; it currently has 1345 billion forints in it. The revenue of the National Employment Fund has been transferred at the same time and other budgetary transfers will increase the economic security fund to 1345 billion. [[14.30]] Because of the budget, there are other options to protect the economy, it also finances five programmes. Among these, the job retention programme stands out, which means that in the event of the introduction of short-term work, which is supported by the government in the event of a reduction in working time of between 15% and 75%, 70 percent of the wage lost is directly financed by the government. I would like to say here that from 1 July, the social contribution tax will be further reduced by 2 percentage points and I could continue, but since that one minute is over, I must now finish this list. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-27-184	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Lajos Korózs, representatives of the MSZP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. When will you submit your resignation? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-04-27-185	Thank you, Mr President, but I wouldn't miss it for anything to listen to Minister. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-27-186	Congresswoman, I would like to inform you that the Minister must answer the question at the hour of the second immediate question. [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Lajos Korózs, representatives of the MSZP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity.
u2020-04-27-187	I don't accept it.
u2020-04-27-188	I would like to inform the Member that he will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Zita Gurmai, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. Who will help poor pensioners? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai has given the Deputy Minister the right to reply. I ask the congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding. [[On Dr. Gurmai Zita's mark:]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-04-27-189	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, A large proportion of the elderly are not only at risk from a health point of view, but are also extremely vulnerable financially. The approximately 1.5 million elderly whose monthly pension is less than HUF 150,000 are in a particularly difficult situation, and it is even more difficult for those who receive HUF 100,000. The number of them is about 600 thousand, and a significant part of them is growing. In the event of a coronal virus epidemic, special attention should be paid to older people and therefore greater safety and protection should be ensured. I can see that this is why the government is determined to take back the 13th month's pension. However, the first part of this is coming next year, and the extra expenditure on the epidemic is now coming up. Moreover, the pension was not increased by the rate of inflation, while this was promised. It is particularly difficult for women who have low pensions for low wages. Next year you will spend HUF 70 billion and HUF 280 billion more on pension expenditure in 2024. Now, at the time of the plague, how much do you want to spend on the poorer members of the most endangered age groups? I hope it's not anything. At the beginning of March, the Council of the Retirement Organisations, with 300,000 members, warned about imminent threats and drew up its main proposals. You didn't even give the pensioners an answer. We are aware that now the economy also needs support to restore its ability to produce after the epidemic. However, we believe that it is important for the government to find a solution for the elderly in the most difficult situation, so that a possible future disaster can be avoided. In view of the above, is it possible to pay a one-time allowance of HUF 50,000 for those receiving a benefit below HUF 150,000? Is it expected to correct the 2.8% annual pension increase due to under-planned inflation in January immediately instead of in November and with a retroactive payment of the difference? Does the Ministry consider it appropriate to increase the amount of equity available for aid in the budget of the Pension Insurance Fund? [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2020-04-27-190	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister András Tállai. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-191	Thank you very much. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Allow me to compare the pension policies of two governments. One of them was yours, who could not guarantee the real value of pensions for several years during their eight-year government, and although many of the pensioners did not feel that they were doing much worse, their pensions could not follow the rate of inflation and price increases. At the same time, the civilian government has promised from 2010 that it will protect the purchasing value of pensions, no matter what the economic situation. And that's what the government has done. It fulfilled, since pensions increased by 34.2 percent between 2011 and 2019 and their purchasing power improved by nearly 10 percent due to persistently low inflation, so not only did it retain it, but it was improved by 10 percent by the government. On the basis of the general consumer price index, it is 10.3; on the basis of pensioner inflation, this figure is 9.8 percent. It is also part of the comparison that, during the Gyurcsány and Bajnai governments, the purchasing value of pensions decreased by 10 percent between 2005 and 2010. I think that this thinking also expresses the essence of the current pension policy. The current government does not promise 50,000, hundreds of thousands; it promises that any situation in this economic situation, which we do not yet know, will protect the purchasing value of pensions. And not only will you protect it, but, as announced, from February 2021 onwards, you will receive, in four years, the one-month extra pension that your government has taken away. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-27-192	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-193	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, if you ask someone a specific question, I would like you to answer specifically what I have asked. I have made very clear and precise proposals for pensioners who are now deprived. Please don't dismiss these suggestions. I think it is important to have the most extensive consultation with stakeholders, the elderly organisations. Inflation has already vanished last year, and we know that 2.8 percent of this year does not correspond to reality, especially in terms of food, it is much higher today. What you said didn't help the pensioners at all. Why don't you just feel the responsibility of steering me once in a while? Because that means you're in a position to do something for the pensioners. If they can't help the pensioners, then put down the burden of government. If it's just that they don't want to help the pensioners, tell them straight. By the way, I'm going to say quietly, a month ago, the letter from the Treasury Department said it wasn't signed. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Please, you responded to business development, not pensioners. So it's a bit of a whorehouse.
u2020-04-27-194	Congresswoman, you have a minute. Thank you. Dear Parliament, You have the Deputy Minister's rejoinder, please.
u2020-04-27-195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and However, nothing prevents the opposition representative from listening to what the pro-government representative has to say. You should listen to it, and then you should answer with a temper or no temper, because you think that the government should now move on to your pension policy. While you were in government, the purchasing value of pensions decreased by 10 percent in eight years, and now you're proposing to raise pensions by 50 thousand and 150 thousand forints in one single way. I would like to say that the one-off benefits are not unknown to the current government, as it followed the same method with the pension premium, the Elisabeth voucher or the return certificate, that the principle is that the purchasing value of pensions should not be reduced. And the same is true of underplanned inflation. Believe that the current method of calculating pension increases will ensure that pensioners do not reduce the purchasing value of pensions. Please note that this government will preserve the purchasing value of pensions, whatever popular proposal you can make. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-27-196	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mr. Anett Bősz, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question, "What are the two of you going to do together?" It's an address. Minister Károly Kontra was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask you to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-04-27-197	I accept, Mr. President.
u2020-04-27-198	You have the floor, Congresswoman. [[14.40]]
u2020-04-27-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, The epidemic is an ordeal for the entire country, surely there is no debate between us. However, as the country struggles with the virus, we see that the government shifts the lion's share of the work to municipalities, so that the control of the epidemic is practically dependent on local leadership. For example, you believe that testing is not important, even though we can see that the societies that have tested a lot are at the forefront of the epidemic. For example, the Municipality of Budapest bought 20,000 tests on its own beard and received no substantial assistance from the government. Our elderly countrymen trapped in quarantine, as well as those in need, must also be cared for by the local authorities. The government entrusts helpless caregivers in need of treatment to families who are often not prepared for home care and leave them without help. For example, DK mayors with the money of their cities provide these families with a monthly grant of HUF 50,000 to at least partially relieve their burdens. Tens of thousands of businesses are being destroyed, hundreds of thousands of workers are losing their jobs, but they can rely mostly on local governments, and under such conditions, the government has further exacerbated the budget of these local leaders by taking away the car tax by not helping; for example, what the Liberals and the Democratic Coalition have jointly proposed, the government refuses to replace the loss of local industrialisation tax revenue. János Arany sings the one-time vineyard owner, who, when the ice hits the vineyard, hits him with a doong and says, "My Lord God!" Go ahead. Let me see what we're up to. Well, what I'm saying is that you're not working with God, you're working with the Crown Virus, and you're working together to destroy local governments. That's not what they should do in the epidemiological situation. Mr. Secretary, I ask you, what are the two of you doing with the crown virus?
u2020-04-27-200	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary Károly Kontra. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-04-27-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Hungary is among the first countries in Europe to prevent coronal virus infection. We set up the operational tribe in January when there were only sporadic cases in Europe. Under the Government Decision establishing the operational tribe, the College is led by the Minister of Interior with the involvement of the Minister of Human Resources. In the framework of the protection against the Crown Virus, Prime Minister set up ten action groups, collective protection has been organised, and we have taken stricter measures before other countries compared to patients, thus slowing down the spread of the epidemic in Hungary. These results have been achieved jointly. We say that joining forces can help in this situation, and we mean it, and we follow this practice. We have established an epidemiology fund of HUF 663 billion, but the central reserve of defense is open from above. Health supplies are ongoing, and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs reports this every week to the Parliament on Monday, which has happened today, thank you very much. On March 16th, the construction of an epidemic hospital in Kiskunhalas began in two and a half weeks. On 16 March the borders of Hungary were closed from midnight, and only Hungarian citizens can enter the territory of Hungary. The government imposed a curfew throughout Hungary and extended it. Any further extensions will be considered weekly and decided by the government. The current restrictive rules will remain in force until 3 May. The police will monitor compliance with the restrictive measures. A number of measures have been taken to protect the elderly. In order to provide credible information, the operational tribe will hold a press conference every day and the parliamentary factions will receive daily reports from the Ministry of the Interior. We have issued a ten-point call to the population and launched a broad campaign on the prevention of the virus. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The results are known. We continue to fight to protect the health and life of Hungary, the Hungarian people. We're counting on your support. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return.
u2020-04-27-203	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr State Secretary, my statement was not that the government has done nothing, but that the measures that have been taken are too much in the same direction and have very bad consequences for the financing of local authorities. They have been overloaded in the fact that their powers have been increased; there is nothing wrong with that, only if there is not enough funds available, then what will happen is that they will simply not be able to keep up. I'll give you an example: In the last six weeks, more than HUF 50 million has been added to care for the elderly and those in need of quarantine. However, the withdrawal of the car tax resulted in a minus of nearly HUF 250 million for the city. But I could say, for example, Budaörs, from which the solidarity contribution is deducted, as if nothing had happened, even though they were also affected by the loss of local industrialisation tax revenue. That is why I say that local communities are seriously affected by the crisis, and they would expect you, because you can count on them, unchanged. Thank you.
u2020-04-27-204	Thank you very much. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-04-27-205	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, the measures point in the same direction, the direction of protecting the lives and health of Hungarian people, which is why we work, which is why doctors, nurses, policemen, soldiers in their territory work in health care. We thank you for this work, and we will continue to do so. In the defence, we consult everyone, the neighbouring countries. Only together can the fight against the plague be successful. No Hungarian person is alone, we do not give up on any sick person, we will fight for everyone. I think that the defense of the last few months has resulted in us following this practice. We didn't leave the councils alone either. In 2012-13-14, the government released 1300 billion debts or took over from the municipalities. And, you know, Congresswoman, as long as the Czeglédy Law Office, Csaba Czeglédy, has money and resources, your questions are not well founded. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-206	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We've reached the end of the immediate questioning. It's 14 hours and 46 minutes. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that no political group has asked for a question, this item will not be discussed. Dear Parliament, A joint debate will follow on the political declaration on the resupposing of the Hungarian people's representation 30 years ago. Viktor Orbán, Fidesz; László Kövér, Fidesz; Péter Harrach, KDNP; Máté Kocsis, Fidesz; Lajos Kósa, Fidesz; Mihály Varga, Fidesz; Zsolt Németh, Fidesz; Richárd Hörcsik, Fidesz, Member's proposal P/10189. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, In the debate on the proposal for a political declaration, divided on behalf of the authors, first by Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of Group Fidesz, then by Mr Péter Harrach, Mr KDNP [[For signal:]] I'm sorry, in my scenario, it was; so first Mr Péter Harrach, Group Leader, KDNP, then Mr Máté Kocsis, Fidesz, introduced him. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a total period of 20 minutes is available for the opening speech, the speech during the debate and the rejoinder. I give the floor to Mr. Péter Harrach.
u2020-04-27-207	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The solemn statement before us is about an era change. There were many eras in the history of our nation; it was significant, less significant, positive, negative, and perhaps the greatest was the era and change of era associated with the name of our founding king, St. Stephen; this is what the text refers to. But the most despicable of such an era was the Rákosi takeover, which meant that they came to power with the help of a foreign power and against the will of the people. And what followed after that? Raptures, evacuations, conceptual lawsuits. [[14.50]] Here, perhaps, it is worth mentioning that there are values, and there are individuals involved in this. Perhaps they will not take offense if I refer to the predecessor party of the Christian Democratic People's Party, the Democratic People's Party, which none of the 62 members of the party were willing to give in to the temptation of Rákosi, took on prison or emigration. The change in the system of 89-90 brought about the turn in relation to the system that was allowed in pressure after 56 but the system itself did not change, and the essence of this system was that a narrow power group was ruling. When we talk about the system itself, what has this change brought? Democratic and rule of law. Once again, I have to stop for a moment when external forces are talking about democracy deficit. We must say that the will of the people decides whether a system works democratically or not, and the result of the elections today determines who is leading the country. Three values are mentioned in this material, freedom, constitutionality and national self-determination. If you'll allow me a few sentences about freedom. At a time of dictatorship, personal freedom has been damaged, but what we see now is that in many cases those who think about freedom are misguided. I think that only the one who understands freedom, the greatest gift of the human being, can understand freedom by mentioning it in pairs with responsibility, interprets it together, and if anyone likes it better, say rights and duties, but that is the same thing. And there is one other aspect that I think is important in terms of freedom, and that is freedom within the framework of standards. Our freedom will be fulfilled if we are able to distinguish right and wrong and choose right. We also need to say a few words about national self-determination, as this material mentions the values of this era change among values. At the time of existing socialism, we know that there was no national self-determination, because our steps were decided from the outside. Today, we know that we practice some of our sovereignty together, and that we are jealous of the remnant, and that we stick to it in an understandable way. We also see that we are also under great external pressure on this subject, pressure from the pro-Empires, and, unfortunately, sometimes there are internal supporters. Let me mention, as a matter of fact, that the best way to deal with threats such as the epidemic threat is to solve the nation state, not the imperial one. And, of course, the power of local communities. This is what we call subsidiarity. If you'll allow me, one more respectful request to the opposition not to pout, but to celebrate and celebrate, for once. [[Moraj in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-208	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group of Fidesz. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-04-27-209	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, Thirty years ago, the Hungarians took their fate into their own hands, for many times in the history of our country, and this political declaration, which lies before you, and which we hope will be adopted in the Hungarian Parliament as much as possible this week, invites all of us to a celebration; if not necessarily, after 40 years of repressive communist dictatorship, it invites us to celebrate the formation of a freely elected parliament, but also the celebration of freedom, sovereignty, constitutionality and democracy. This is also important, because at the same time we remember those who founded this result, they established in the history of Hungary the new turning point that introduced Hungary into the new age, and introduced it to the modern age, so that in the heart of the European continent we can find our place again within the framework of the rule of law. It also draws attention to those whose standing, loyalty, and courage were essential to this and draws attention to those who have even undertaken martyrdom in national socialist or communist times in order to take action against the occupying powers. It also draws our attention to the fact that the Hungarians have always believed, even in the most difficult times, even at the end of the most difficult times, that they have to participate in the renewal of the country, and this belief was essential for them to go through with this democratic revolution. Therefore, there is also thanks and respect for the martyrdom, the sacrifice, the personal responsibility of those who took the fate of our country into their hands, so there is also a lot of thanks and respect for the residents, the participants of the Opposition Round Table and the members of the freely elected Parliament on 2 May 1990. It is important to point out that, after many decades, the first democratically declared free will created this body again, and it is also important to highlight this because in 1949, when Hungary withdrew from Europe and lost its independence through its decades of inclusion in the Soviet sphere, we broke up with this in 1989-90, and before oblivion fades into oblivion, it is not natural at all what happened. After all, the restoration of a country with severe debt and spiritual and mentally crippled, which had been destroyed and impoverished for more than four decades, was a historic challenge, and a historic decision was also taken to deal with it. At the same time, I would also like to point out in the debate that, although the fact of the change of regime is a result that all people who take seriously the sovereignty, freedom, democracy and constitutionality of our country can be proud of, the failure after the change of regime has been surrounded by debates for many years in some areas of life, and perhaps still surrounds it. One of the important turning points of this was that the legislation adopted in 1989 as a transitional constitution, behind which the people's will could not be chosen, had not yet been able to counter the 20th of 1949. Therefore, the creation of the new Hungarian Fundamental Law is also a turning point in the period since the change of regime, which has made it absolutely clear what Hungarian values, the respect for the history of our country and the loyalty we want to live our lives in the 21st century. In the century. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that our new Fundamental Law is now a worthy expression of our National Creed and is worthy of the solidarity of all Hungarians and of Hungary's responsibility to all the members of the nation. Including, of course, that the new constitution expresses that the Hungarians living outside the border are a full-fledged part of our nation, and also expresses that we are all responsible for our future, which is why it is safe to say that the 1990 result and the commemoration of its anniversary are not a festival that stands in itself, but also calls for all the achievements that Hungarian democracy, Hungarian parliamentarianism has achieved in the short period before 1990 and since then, to be protected. [[15.00]] So all of us, who are members of the Hungarian Parliament today, must have joint responsibility for the values of freedom, sovereignty, constitutionality and democracy. At the same time, we would also like to draw attention to it, and I hope that too much political debate has not been triggered by this proposal, because of the political division of the period after the change of regime and the work of the communist and former socialist dictatorships, the results have not yet been achieved to a significant extent. So when, for a moment, we get comfortable not having to fight over and over again to protect the values of the change of regime, it is good to remember that not only in a decade after the change of regime, but almost ever since, those who called the Holy Crown a mici hat and lived among us who, through the tricks of privatisation, saved party-state assets that made democratic transformation that took into account European traditions difficult. Therefore, for us, and allow me to speak now, perhaps at the very end of the day, of a personal side, for my age, to win or remember the values of 1990 not only a holiday, but also to call for us to stand up for all of this. We are not confident that everyone who belongs today to the Hungarian Parliament or to the political elite and do not want to point back far to the successor parties is convinced that this democratic transformation process is appropriate for them as well. However, we are convinced that the future of Hungary, the respect for Hungary's traditions, the strengthening of Hungary's traditions, Hungary's national creed, the commitment of the entire community of nations with Hungarians living across the border is the only guarantee of our future, and we will all do everything we can on today's government side to keep it that way for the next centuries. I am personally proud that the party of the Parliament, which can form two factions on 2 May 1990, is giving the Hungarian governing alliance today, and I am also personally proud to be a member of the larger governing party. At the time, on 2 May 1990, I was almost 9 years old for the day, which is why I was mainly able to learn about my historical knowledge or reading experiences, but I am also proud of it, and I call upon every Hungarian citizen of my age or my younger age to be proud to live among us today, not only as a role model, but also for those who have done a great deal of personal work and sacrifice so that we can live in a free, constitutional, sovereign country. Therefore, I would like to ask all members of the Hungarian Parliament to see this political statement not only as a celebration, but also as a call for future years and decades, as a confirmation of it, let us understand that this is the struggle, the struggle for our country, the struggle for the values of our country, which must primarily motivate a politician at all times, and indeed, after living among us a large number of those mentioned above, on whom we can rely, who are a role model before us, we can therefore turn to them with confidence if we are talking about our country, if we are talking about advice on the fate of our country. [[Dr. István Hiller, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] I ask every parliamentary faction to acknowledge the common values of our country, in the spirit of remembering the anniversary of the establishment of the freely elected Parliament in 1990, to accept this political declaration, and to be proud that today we can live in a Hungary that our fathers and grandfathers may not have dreamed of, only hope and do everything for it. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-210	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. We'll get back to work. Dear Parliament, I'll ask if someone from the government wants to speak now. [[For signal:]] Secretary Balázs Orbán, please.
u2020-04-27-211	Thank you for the floor. Honourable Mr. President, Mr. Speaker, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In 1990, at the inaugural meeting of the first freely elected Parliament, Béla Varga, Catholic priest, later emigrant, owner of the great cross of the Hungarian Order of Merit, who was the chairman of the National Assembly in 1946, said to the people present, quote: "Let's think of what I often think is that what is happening in this Chamber is not only the end of a painful chapter of forty or a few years, but the beginning of the second Hungarian thousand years. So far, the quote. Later, the indirect optimism of these words was masked by the difficulties of changing the system; the turn of the opposition at that time against each other, the widespread uncertainty caused by economic change, and the old elite's schemes of trying to save their power, which called into question all the things the opposition to the regime fought for. In the years following the change of regime, it was difficult to look at the future with confidence in decades, and perhaps that is why Béla Varga's thoughts were lost in the noise of political debates. There was something to pay attention to. Let's just think that the reservation ended with a kind of national assembly in Pusztaszer. Then the practice of Hungarians discussing the nation's affairs in an organized and orderly manner remained a living tradition throughout the history of Hungarians. That is why in Hungary, with the consent of Hungarians, absolute power could never be formed only by external pressure. But even during the greatest oppression from the outside, there were forums or forums of the nation in which the Hungarians who remained and were resistant could discuss our common affairs. Through this mechanism, the Hungarian Parliament became the main depositary and symbol of the sovereignty of the Hungarian nation. If the nation is holding a meeting for itself, there is still the power in the Hungarians to take their fate into their own hands or to keep it there. During the centuries, the circle of those who could be members of this meeting was growing, and more and more Hungarians could decide who would represent the nation. The importance of everything cannot be overestimated. Each member of the Parliament represents the nation as a whole. In popular representation, partial interests are dissolved, and, for example, race, colour, gender, language, political opinion, social origin, property situation, in which the distinction is prohibited under the Fundamental Law, and the real community of the nation is created in a symbolic space. And the imagery of this space is this Chamber and its homeowners and countrymen. This is the symbolism that we need to bear in mind if we are to understand what happened 30 years ago at the Parliament's inaugural meeting at that time. In those 40-some painful years, which Béla Varga remembered, there was no representative country in Hungary. This was not only due to the peculiarities of communist oppression, but was also encoded in communist state law dogma. Members of the Communist Parliament, who had no real influence on the country's affairs, even represented the nation as a whole on paper, but only the narrow community that delegated the Member: constituency, factory council, trade union. The communist idea and legal thinking were simply unable to think in a nation, but it was very capable of dividing Hungarians and turning them against each other on the basis of partial interests. No wonder, therefore, that our country, as the proposal before us puts it, did not revolve around its own axis, there were decisions that did not strengthen it, but weakened the positions of the Hungarian nation in the world and in the Carpathian Basin, which did not improve, but impair people's life opportunities, undermine the chances of long-term prosperity. Thirty years ago, through the creation of popular representation, the nation was symbolically united and thus regained its ability to take its destiny back into its own hands and to resist external pressure. As long as this Parliament meets, while Hungarians consult and decide on the affairs of the nation in Hungarian, of their own free will, of their own free discretion, between the walls of Parliament, we have good reason to look to the future with confidence. It would be good for no Member to forget this, regardless of cycles, either pro-government or opposition, and not to confuse the praise from Bucharest with that from home. The challenges that await us in the second millennium seem to be nothing easier than what our early ones had to deal with, but finally, after 40 years of oppression and the bitter decades of transition, we can say that we can now really pay attention to what Béla Varga said thirty years ago, and now it is up to us what success the second Hungarian millennium has in store for us. [[15.10]] This is guaranteed by the living tradition of Parliament and parliamentarianism in Hungary, the Holy Crown in the building of Parliament, and the responsible Hungarian government, on whose behalf I would like to grant support. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-27-212	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I would like to inform you that you will have 4 minutes and 30 seconds for your further speech as the representative of the Government during the debate. Dear Parliament, As we continue our work, we will now be presenting the position of the Legislative Committee. Mr Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur for the Legislative Committee, has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-213	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee held on 23 April 2020 the P/10189 P/10189, entitled "The Resuming of Hungary's People's Representative System Thirty Years ago." Proposal for a policy statement No 1. The summary report of the committee is set out in Rule 82 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour and 9 votes in favour and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, 2 May 1990 is an excellent day in our history, which we consider as the beginning of the new democracy and constitutional order of our country. Our basic law also expresses that we count on the return of the state self-determination of Hungary lost on 19 March 1944 from 2 May 1990, from the democratically declared will of Hungarian citizens deprived of the right to free elections for decades, from the formation of the first freely elected representative of the people. Dear House, I would like to quote the words of József Antall, Hungary's first democratically elected prime minister: I think we are now at a historic hour when we can attempt to take our fate into our own hands. The four decades of rule of the Communist regime left a broken country with a serious moral and economic crisis. The members of the first freely elected Parliament bravely took on the historic challenge of building democratic and rule of law, establishing the legal framework for a market economy, establishing new international relations in Hungary, and making responsibility for Hungarian communities across borders a part of national policy. We pay tribute to all those who have contributed to Hungary's return to civil life without fear of the oppressive regime, without regreting work and effort, with their efforts, talents and diligence. The patriotism of our compatriots who have also taken on martyrdom against national socialist and communist dictatorship and alien occupation and the desire for freedom of the 1956 heroes reminds us that only a nation of self-respecting values can preserve free will and sovereignty. We must also pass on this legacy to future generations. Dear House, With the proposal before us, the members of the Parliament serving its term of office intend to commemorate those who, thirty years ago, committed themselves to the constitutional values that give the purpose and meaning of the change of regime. In this way, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-27-214	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the factions have 10-10 minutes, and the independent representatives have 2 minutes in total. In the meantime, two-minute comments should be included in the duration. First, Mr Zsolt Németh, representative of Fidesz, can give his opinion. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-215	Mr President, Mr. Speaker, Ladies and gentlemen, Hungarian democracy is 30 years old. The change in the Hungarian system has had many decorated moments, but perhaps from some perspective we can safely say that the date of the formation of the first freely elected Hungarian Parliament stands out among them. This day was the culmination of the Hungarian system change. This date is also the moment of the restoration of the country's formal legal sovereignty, as reflected in our Fundamental Law, which will enter into force in 2012. Of course, sovereignty is not merely a legal concept. In 90, the creation of sovereignty began, and this process was carried out in our understanding by the Fundamental Law. Although the establishment of an internal political consensus on the Fundamental Law is yet to come, there is perhaps a consensus between the walls of the House that the suspension of our sovereignty can be between March 19 and May 2, which is laid down by the Fundamental Law at the legislative level. Obviously, this has not been the end of the acquisition of our sovereignty, since the time since then requires continuous and wide-ranging efforts to protect it. In fact, we can safely say that this is the most important and general task and responsibility of the Hungarian Parliament. I think it is important to stress, as the political declaration before us makes it, that the most important thing in many of the common traits of Nazism and communism is that both dictatorships have taken sovereignty from us Hungarians, and all their specific or common sins have been the result of this main sin. The free choice of 90 was the first and most important step towards regaining sovereignty and honestly facing the past. The declaration remembers and bows to the known and unknown, outstanding or ordinary victims, martyrs and heroes of dictatorships in an elevated tone. As Members of Parliament, it may be appropriate to highlight the name of a former fellow Member who formed a bridge between the post-war, the 56th and the post-system change period, the national socialist and anti-communist, and the domestic and emigration opposition activities. Yes, János Horváth, interim president of the 2010 and 14 Parliaments, President of the Interparlamentary Union, said my quote - "What is possible is possible." And indeed, what seemed completely impossible to many for a long time has happened. In the long process of system change, alongside many changing events and actors, I think it is important to emphasise the importance of a permanent factor, Christianity. In all of the former Communist countries, although to varying degrees, church persecution was of particular importance. Perhaps the main reason for this was that in total dictatorships the churches were the only depositaries of alternative institutional existence, thinking and living, although within limits. This was especially true in the lives of Hungarian communities abroad, who were subject to double oppression in their countries. During both dictatorships, we were able to experience abundantly the nation-sustaining power of Christianity, also in accordance with our Fundamental Law. With great appreciation and gratitude, we remember the Christian martyrs, the churchmen and the secular ones who take their faith, because, as Fidesz's headquarters, the walls of the former ÁEH, have written the happy saying: "Happy are those who suffer for the truth, because they have the kingdom of heaven. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It was a huge responsibility for the first government, which had to rebuild the foundations of democracy, without political history and experience. Prime Minister József Antall recite his name with radicalism, which is rare in many respects, with the dictatorial communist legacy, laying the foundations of independent Hungarian foreign policy and the sovereign Hungarian state. Without the need for completeness: the initiation of the dissolution of the Warsaw Treaty, the announcement of the accession of the EU and NATO, the withdrawal of the Soviet troops or the cessation of the construction of the Bős-Nagymaros water escape. Thirty years ago, around the national round table, there was a common desire to establish plural democracy. At the time, we wanted this together, there was no difference, and success, compared to the other countries on the same path, is also due to this. [[15.20]] The fact that, after that and since then, we have different views on the need to build a socialist, liberal or Christian democracy in order to remedy existing problems is inherent in the beauty of democracy. But today and this statement is not an evaluation of thirty years, but an assessment of the significance of the first free Parliament. It is regrettable and devastating that we Hungarian Members are not able to share this common success story and to accept a joint declaration in 2020. In conclusion, on the trail of János Horváth it is possible, because one of the most beautiful results is not to be left unmarked, namely that in 2014 the National Assembly became a National Assembly with the legal unification of Hungarians in the Carpathian Basin, which had been separated for a hundred years, with the emphasis on their national political aspects in the walls of the House. They are also present in spirit today, and proudly regard Budapest as their capital city, primarily because of this place and institution, which we call the Hungarian Parliament. Therefore, not only the country, but the whole nation is now part of the construction of thirty-year democracy, from which each took its share in its own measure. As a result of our activities, not only Hungary, but all its Hungarian sovereignty, live anywhere, grow and grow. The authors of the proposal include the names of six Members who have been continuously performing our duties as representatives for 30 years. Our common conviction, as our Fundamental Law considers it clear, is once again the main objective of the Parliament, following the first speech of József Antall as Prime Minister, to represent the interests of the united Hungarian nation. I wish all my fellow Members courage, loyalty, faith, strength and blessings to do so. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Congressman Brenner Koloman, a member of the Jobbik faction. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-217	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Speaker! Dear House, The Jobbik National People's Party will of course respectfully remember the formation of the first freely elected Hungarian parliament after communist one-party rule on 2 May 1990, which promised our country a new civil and democratic equipment. At the same time, our party has been struggling since its founding, so that these hopes, which I remember very well, unlike Mr Group Leader, can finally become a reality. That is why, together with President Peter James, we have tabled a proposal for a resolution as well as the greatest opposition power of Parliament, which reflects our thoughts on this tabled resolution proposal, which I can say on 26 April, since we have been living in this government cycle for ten years, virtually symbolically contradicts what has been happening in our country for thirty years. After all, we remember that the first Antall government actually took over the government of our country during a period in which the power and wealth of the former communist one-party system had already been saved. And for ten years now, the one-party Fidesz overpowerment has been concentrated in wealth and power. It's a symbolic day. At the time, the Antall government fulfilled its historic mission to establish formal foundations for democratic and rule of law. At the same time, for Hungarian citizens, the last thirty years have not brought what we all wanted: the expected prosperity and security. To date, responsibility for the operators of the one-party communist regime, including the full publicity of the agent files, has been neglected. There was no adequate compensation for the layers deprived of their wealth and freedom, even though we know this from Hungarian citizens and Jobbik on a Christian-social basis at the time, and they believed in a social market economy, and in European values such as the rule of law and solidarity with the fallen, based on Christian values. We believe in these values in the name of the EPP Jobbik and recall that thirty years ago our country had a historic opportunity to achieve freedom, constitutionality and national self-determination. We believe that democracy is not merely an institution, not an election system, in which you acquire two thirds, but above all a political culture, in which compliance with legal order and law is important. No political force can seek exclusive power; professionalism and autonomous decisions must prevail in the institutions of Hungarian statehood, yes, Mr Speaker, the system of brakes and balances. On behalf of the People's Party Jobbik, we are here on behalf of the XXI. 30 years after the first experiment, we see the time to build a modern and civil Hungary. This modern and civil Hungary will provide all Hungarian citizens with the freedom, security and individual predictable growth that Hungarians can expect from their own state. That is what we believe, and therefore we do not wish to attend the Fidesz Pharisees' event on 2 May. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-27-218	Dear Parliament, Now, Congressman Richard Hörcsik, the representative of Fidesz, may take the floor, but as an author. I would like to remind you that you have 4 minutes and 50 seconds at your maximum. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-219	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Speaker, Ladies and gentlemen, Under extraordinary circumstances, we are commemorating an extraordinary event today. For our country, as we have heard, thirty years ago a new era began, which began at the inaugural meeting of the freely elected Parliament on 2 May 1990. I am grateful to the Almighty for being a part of this historic event. I now represent the former pro-government members of the regime-changing parliament alone in this House, thanks to the voters of Zemplén and Abaúj from 2014. That is why it is important for me to remember Prime Minister József Antall and my former MDF factions. His words at the inauguration of József Antall ring in my ears: I will serve as long as I can, and as long as the nation needs me. Thank you for your service, and I will preserve your memory with the nation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The freely elected representative of the people gave back the freedoms that the party state had taken away, and we set the goal of recovering the country that had been tortured by four decades of communist or socialist power. Looking back today, it was not possible to discern exactly what a serious inheritance we inherited. I believe that in the next 30 years, it is truly apparent that we have undertaken almost the impossible. Three decades ago, József Antall took on the issue of Hungarian communities stranded outside the borders of the country, and the foreign policy of the country has taken a completely new direction, the direction of Euroatlantic or Euro integration. With all due respect, for the sake of historical fidelity, just 28 years ago, in the process of European integration, the Committee on European Affairs was first established here in Central Europe, within the walls of this House. It was not until decades later that the joint work developed in both areas. Ladies and gentlemen, As with the change of system, the process of European integration is still not a complete issue, I believe that during the 16 years of our EU membership, the benefits of membership for the whole region have not yet been guaranteed. So it is our duty to move every step of the way to ensure that the Union works according to the intentions of the founding fathers. We've learned that it's not worth sitting at the negotiating table with your hands up. It has been proven that we can act effectively, we deserve respect by standing up for our interests and not by living with other people's money, but by building a strong economy in which Hungarians can manage. [[15.30]] Ladies and gentlemen, We've come a long way since 1990. Let these 30 years be a lesson for generations to come. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-27-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to draw the attention of the national representatives to the fact that there is a time frame of 1 minute 35 seconds left for a possible closing. But now it is up to Congressman Bertalan Tóth, head of the MSZP faction. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-221	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, There is, however, a discreet charm of wanting to commemorate the foundations of democracy, the rule of law and freedoms, who have been working actively over the past ten years and are still working to eliminate these values. This came to my mind at first of all about the Fidesz political declaration that Viktor Orbán, László Kövér and some others submitted on the occasion of the establishment of the Parliament after the regime change in 1990. Then I took a closer look at this statement, and it turned out that it was only in a small part about honoring the first freely elected Parliament, which was established 30 years ago; rather, the celebration of Fidesz, the illiberal system, and the exaltation of the pro-state Fundamental Law. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it very clear to the Hungarian Socialist Party as a change of regime party: democratic change is a value. We are proud that the change of regime 30 years ago allowed Hungary to develop a democratic institutional system, the rule of law, a free republic, a social market economy. We are on the road to catching up and integration in Western Europe, and over time, our country has become a member of NATO and the European Union. It is also important for us to honor our predecessors on 1 May and 2 May. Ladies and gentlemen, I think about the celebration and the celebration that, if the intention is sincere, there is someone to celebrate with, there is the occasion, the place and the time to celebrate. In this case, there's a problem with all of them. Intention isn't honest. If these gentlemen really wanted to give respect to the Parliament after the 1990 regime change, they would have included the factions in its preparation and not mocked the last-minute work that the system changers fought for. Because with this declaration, the people who have trampled the values of the regime change with two feet in the last ten years want to take over the anniversary commemoration, who focus on keeping their power instead of dealing with the crisis that threatens the nation, who have turned the real forum for decision-making into a political theater. Ladies and gentlemen, There is no reason to celebrate, because in 2010 Fidesz lost its path of democracy and the social market economy, based on a common understanding. According to Winston Churchill, democracy is the worst form of governance, not counting all the others that mankind is trying to do from time to time. Well, Hungary has been trying since 2010 to be called a hybrid regime, an illiberal democracy, but the simplest thing is to call it authoritarianism. The Prime Minister has built a centralised, informal system around him, and the state is occupied from the inside by a political clique in which family members, trombones, party members and loyal clients who actually operate it from state to local level. There is no accountability, the control brakes and balances are no longer or hardly effective, since according to the president of the election of the state party and the third dignity of Hungary under public law, the system of brakes and balances is just a stupidity. There is no reason to celebrate, because, 30 years after the change of regime, there is limited freedom in Hungary, the separation of powers does not work, the electoral system is not clear and impartial. There is no reason to celebrate, because the situation of freedom of the press has deteriorated, the Reporters Without Borders has recently moved our country from 180 countries to 89th place. In 2019, Freedom House turned Hungary from free to free status, after Fidesz used its power to restrict or directly block the opposition, the media, scientific life, civil society organisations, courts and the private sector. There is no reason to celebrate, because out of 180 of Transparency International's 180 states, Hungary has been ranked worse, most recently 70th in the corruption ranking. There is no reason to celebrate, as the World Justice Project has ranked Hungary 57th of 126 countries studied, the last of the countries in the region, based on the system of brakes and balances, the corruption situation, the publicity of data of public interest, fundamental human rights and the quality of the justice system. Ladies and gentlemen, These signals cannot be taken lightly, since every aspect of our lives is affected by the democratic arrangement of the state or its lack. When a legal protection organisation or the European Union speaks out because of the damage to the rule of law in Hungary, the violation of municipal rights or the lack of democratic rights, they are actually trying to protect Hungarian people, the rights of Hungarian people, against the power. When they talk about employee rights, they mention that Hungarian workers are the most vulnerable to employers thanks to Fidesz. When it comes to the increased protection of women, they remind me that the Fidesz regime has been sabotaging the Istanbul Convention on combating domestic violence for years. When it comes to reducing the independence of the judiciary, they say that members of the Fidesz elite are treated differently than citizens seeking their justice. When it comes to the media, they criticize the fact that they lie in our faces with government propaganda, forgery. When it comes to maiming the freedom of scientific life, they criticize that power does not want to prepare our children for the challenges of the future, but lies away from them the reality of being loyal subjects rather than critical thinkers. When corruption is criticized, it means that the members of the Fidesz elite collect billions of dollars, bathe in luxury, drain resources and opportunities from Hungarian entrepreneurs, while millions live below the poverty line. No wonder the Fidesz elite is as afraid of the European Public Prosecutor's Office as the devil of incense smoke. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is an illusion that Fidesz wants to celebrate the establishment of a democratic and rule of law arrangement at the Parliament's sitting, that the Prime Minister and 133 brave men have just stepped up the Parliament, now doubling the real legislative system with reference to the emergency situation. The government has given power without a time limit to take any measure, thereby undermining legal certainty and a new angle in the coffin of democracy. By deliberately imprecise amendment of the Criminal Code, journalists who are independent of the government are under constant threat. At the same time, in cases not related to the control of the epidemic, Parliament is operated, but this is only to cover the building of a stealth dictatorship. Ladies and gentlemen, It is not a good time to celebrate, because now everyone, Fidesz, should work especially to protect people, to protect people's lives, to distribute protective equipment, to ensure the livelihood of the masses who lose their jobs. It is sad that 30 years after the change of regime, we have to fight again for freedoms, the rule of law and democracy, because the republic that we have now is only formally a republic, a formal republic, which is in fact an authoritarian system that we have to eliminate. Of course, I trust that we will not be alone in this struggle, I count on the other democratic parties; on the 32nd anniversary of the establishment of the Parliament elected in 1990, we should indeed have a reason to celebrate and talk about how we managed to end the 12-year dark era of authoritarianism and how we will begin to restore democracy and the rule of law. In conclusion, we respectfully remember the change of regime Parliament and fight for the democratic values that were created after the change of regime. However, we will not participate in the hypocritical act of Fidesz on 2 May. Thank you for your attention. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Oh, well done! Applause from the opposition.]]
u2020-04-27-222	Dear Parliament, Mr László Sebian-Petrovski, representative of DK, may speak now. Here you go. [[15.40]]
u2020-04-27-223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, This debate is formally about a political declaration that commemorates the 30th anniversary of the first free Parliament meeting following the change of regime, but in fact we are talking about our recent relationship with the last 75 but at least 30 years. First of all, I would like to say that I think it is a good thing that we are talking about such issues, that we are bringing such matters to this House. I think it is important that we hold these debates over and over again and discuss them, provided that they can go beyond the current raw party policy goals. This is still the main mistake of the proposal: the declaration is the latest product of the Fidesz and the Orbán government's memory struggle, even more modestly, towards the end. Of course you, my dear members of the government, do not want any sensible debate, or any lesson from the historical past. You would like to rewrite the recent history to support your governance. Let us see how some of the points of the proposal try to make some of the important events in Hungarian history Fidesz-like. Right at the beginning, as a by-product, the text gives the impression that, due to the Sagittarius takeover on 19 March 1944, the country's self-determination was completely lost, consciously negating the fact that the self-determination that was undoubtedly damaged was enough to bring hundreds of thousands of Hungarian citizens to concentration camps with the help of the Hungarian government. Then comes the few years after 1945, the assessment of this democratic period, in which some Members of the National Assembly are worth mentioning, and that is the summation of this period. However, it is painfully lacking that these few years have been a truly democratic attempt, with political and economic consolidation, the creation of a framework for a civil democratic rule of law, the creation of a functioning market economy, and even democratic political equipment and a multiparty system. Despite the failure of the experiment, these were important positive, exemplary steps, which deserved once again more to be said in this proposal. Let's skip to the period of the Kádár system. It is also a question to me whether 33 years of history can be negotiated and appreciated at the same time, and this can be seen as a single period, but even if we do so, we must be more nuanced than the presentation does. The proposal shows the whole period as a country of destruction, poverty and poverty. However, reality is more nuanced, my dear fellow Members. Make no mistake, the Kádár regime was a dictatorship, even though the beginning and end of 33 years brought a very different color of oppression. The Kádár regime was a dictatorship, even though it brought financial stability and relative prosperity for many, especially in the 1960s and 1970s. Once again, the Kádár system was a dictatorship, even if it was an opportunity for millions of people to study, access to housing or simply to prosper, with which crowds have lived during this period. And the Kádár system was a dictatorship even though we know that there are still hundreds of thousands of people who think back with nostalgia, especially because, especially towards the end of this era, they lost their financial security, and they never found it during the 30 years after the change of regime. This should also be discussed in the assessment of the Kádár system, and this has also been mentioned by Fidesz at the first freely elected parliament and parliamentary meetings that we would otherwise like to commemorate. There's been other winds since then, of course. Finally, we will come to the evaluation of the last 30 years, the period after the change of regime in this proposal, which works so unilaterally, using text and using words that I have to say that it would not even fit in the Fidesz party's history, let alone a declaration from Parliament. Here's what I'm thinking. The proposal clearly identifies the good and the bad. The bad ones are now called post-communists by this proposal, there has been a document that has been otherwise put forward, and Máté Kocsis has now promoted one in his earlier statement, thus demoralizing everyone who is not compatible with the philosophy of Fidesz in a false way. I would like to note that the change of regime, the first meeting of the first Parliament, which is mainly about the creation of the republic, the establishment of democratic political arrangements, the creation of a private-owned market economy, so to sum up: the development of civil democracy in the name of the Democratic Coalition is also a naturally important, positive step, to be welcomed and celebrated. I couldn't say otherwise. However, this is true even if we do not have all our desire for a change of regime, and it is true if 30 years later Fidesz's political interests are in line to make this arrangement happen. Because that is what happened after 2010, dear gentlemen, ladies, since 2010, we have had an illiberal hybrid regime, we are living in a quasi-half-autoriter system, and Bertalan Tóth has described these measures. The steps taken by the government in the course of the government measures, which would otherwise be contrary to the values of the regime at the time of the change, have been taken, so far that even the word Republic has been removed from the name of the state. Even this proposal, which you have tabled, would not have been discussed 30 years ago in that Parliament, not with, for example, the members of the Judicial Committee being informed nine minutes before the meeting that they would be negotiating at all. Well, for example, 30 years ago, that couldn't have happened. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the Government, that what is happening here is that the traitors and gravediggers of the regime change want to make a commemoration of the events of the change of regime; that those who have done everything they can to destroy it want to celebrate the system of popular representation. You can obviously do this, they'll do this, but we don't assist, DK doesn't participate. This proposal should have been thrown in the trash as it is; of course we will not vote for it, nor will we participate in the play planned by Fidesz on Saturday. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-27-224	Dear Parliament, The Jobbik faction is now again, Congressman Zoltán Balczó. Please note that your fraction has 5 minutes 44 seconds available. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-225	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, In my speech, I would like to explain why I am not taking part in the Parliament's festive session on 2 May. To do this, I need to make it clear how I judge where we've gotten in 30 years. 2 May 1990 is an important date of Hungarian political history. On this day, the parliamentary assembly, elected freely after four decades of communist dictatorship, held its inaugural session. The event was accompanied by the attention and hope of the whole society. We were confident that, if not immediately, not easily, by sacrifice, but by approaching the level of Western countries in freedom, democracy and civil prosperity. We had to be disappointed in our hopes. Although the institutions of parliamentary democracy and market economy have been built, it has not been filled in with the right content; instead of a socialist market economy, a robbery capitalist was created with a narrow circle of beneficiaries. These included knights of the previous system, who were at the right place at the right time, and foreign investors, whose primary goal was to acquire the market for their own products. The result: complete and otherwise artificial industries have ceased and hundreds of thousands of people have lost their jobs. This is, therefore, the balance sheet of this period. In 2010, there was another opportunity to translate things to the right. Viktor Orbán, with a two-thirds majority in Parliament, has been given the opportunity to set the country on a new ascending path and to proceed consistently as this statesman. This is not the path Viktor Orbán chose. Everything has been subjected to one goal, to the preservation of political power, and this has been achieved so far as a political juggler with outstanding abilities, building up his own unique system, but only the Hungarian society has to pay a great price for it. In order to maintain power, Viktor Orbán gradually reduced the operation of the rule of law and built up his chain of fidelity, which he maintains on the one hand by cheating away EU funds and on the other hand by maintaining an existential threat. [[15.50]] Permanent is at war with enemies who are unrealistically enlarged and partially created and freed the spirit of hatred from the bottle. It builds its economic policy on providing cheap and vulnerable workers to large, predominantly multinational companies. He manipulates society by pushing the media under extreme centralization. The suffocating atmosphere of the system and the lack of quality jobs have led hundreds of thousands to leave their country, not to wish for adventure. And one more fact: Hungary is last in the order of the Visegrád countries in terms of standard of living data. Well, we got here in 30 years, and the National Assembly is holding a holiday meeting on the 2nd of May. I had to ask myself, do I have a seat at this event? Has the majority of Hungarian society seen anything to celebrate this anniversary? Well, I have had to face so many personal assessments of the past decades, of the devastating opinion of the political class, because, whether you like it or not, I have to accept that, on the basis of my long opposition political existence, I belong here, too, that there is no doubt that the answer is: the vast majority do not see anything to celebrate. Therefore, in line with the Jobbik Group's decision, I am not taking part in this celebration. I cannot go into the parliamentary ivory tower to celebrate when out there, in real life, patients who need care due to the chronic inadequacy of our health system and irresponsible decisions are put on the street from hospitals. I must add that Jobbik has no place in the commemoration of opposition parties. Fidesz's one-round electoral system forces opposition parties to enter into agreements in individual constituencies despite their ideological differences. On 13 October 2019 it was demonstrated that the voters would accept such cooperation. This does not mean, however, that we are sharing with parties and politicians who are heavily responsible for the failure of the last 30 years because of their government involvement. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik. Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-04-27-226	Dear Parliament, I announce to you that the Christian Democratic People's Party has handed over three minutes of its own time frame to the Fidesz faction. Accordingly, I would like to request that the time frame be improved on the board. [[It's happening.]] And now, Mr Imre Vejkey, representative of the KDNP, will be followed, as appropriate, in the remaining seven-minute time frame. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-227	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The first round of free parliamentary elections after the fall of the communist dictatorship was held on 25 March 1990, with 65.1 percent voter participation. In the first round of the election, 5 single mandate constituencies out of 176 single mandate constituencies were valid. Thus, the second round of 8 April 1990 was held in 171 single mandate constituencies, with a clear MDF winner, with a total mandate of 114 single mandate constituencies. Based on the outcome of the first free election after the fall of communism, the new Parliament was established just 30 years ago, ... on 2 May. Of the 386 representatives of the Parliament, the MDF faction was 165, the SZDSZ faction 94, the Independent Group of the Kisgazda Party 44, the Fidesz faction 22, the KDNP faction 21, the MSZP faction 33 and the independent parties 7 seats. Ladies and Gentlemen, You can also see from the above facts that the leaders of the MSZMP, which maintains the fallen communist dictatorship, and the leaders of the MSZP, which was established as its concealed successor, were not excluded from the first free elections. In my opinion, this was more than a concern, but the electoral frameworks and the electoral law itself were adopted by the old communist parliament and voted in 1989. Remember, even in the first free election, the Communists and their old clientele were in power, with the forces of the Soviet army that supported them, who had been invading us for decades. It was the Soviet army that, at the call of the Hungarian Communists, in 1956, bloodily defeated the Hungarian freedom fight and maintained the dictatorship with its bayonets until 1990. The Soviet invaders and their Hungarian servers deprived the Hungarian people of the most sacred freedoms attached to life. They therefore deprived the Hungarian people of personal freedom and freedom of speech and freedom of the press until the right of association and assembly was deprived. They stripped us of these rights, because they knew that if we lived with these rights, we would sweep them away. The Hungarian people, in the shadow of the bayonets and with some freedom cast, were once again courageous in 1990 and stood up for their freedom, because during the parliamentary elections they failed the political power of those who, through terror, silenced the Hungarian people for decades. Ladies and Gentlemen, You can ask me why I was talking about a covert succession of MSZP. That's because in 1989, the MSZP wanted to be your trust-saving MSZMP-rightholder at the same time, and a whole new party at the same time. Nothing shows this better than the debate that took place after the change of regime 20 years ago before the National Election Committee. The fact was that on 25 January 2010, the OVB dealt with five social organisations, including MSZP's nominating organisation application, in view of the spring parliamentary elections. I found that, among the documents annexed by the MSZP, the statement of the Metropolitan Court of Justice was incomplete because it lacked the classification of the social organisation according to its purpose. In my view, according to the laws of procedure at that time, this should have been essential for the registration of nominating organisations. The strong opposition of the then socialist-liberal OVB members was based on the argument that the MSZP was included in the nominating bodies in every election 20 years ago. Finally, on the basis of this socialist-liberal position, the decision of the OVB did not want to wait for the settlement of the court and decided 7:2 on the registration of the MSZP. Of course, this decision was challenged, so the Supreme Court also dealt with the issue, and on 28 January 2010 it made its legally more than worrying decision, with the formally weak justification that it was not relevant for the MSZP that the part of the capital court extract which relates to the classification of the target remains incomplete. Ladies and Gentlemen, So the system changes had negative tricks. And what happens today? The MSZP and its latest intellectual successors do not accept the political declaration on the restoration of Hungary's popular representation system 30 years ago. They won't accept it, even though the reform communists have accepted it, so they'll even withdraw after 30 years. What they don't accept? They do not accept the historical fact that they left this country in a serious, difficult situation. But they don't like our Easter Fundamental Law, which ended the post-communist era. They'd delete that, too. All this means, gentlemen, that you do not like our Christian national-inspired Fundamental Law. Remember, in 70 years, the lie of communism has cost a hundred million victims in the world, hundreds of millions of sacrifices, while concealing its true nature with supposed sublime purposes. In Stalin's terror inspiration, in the shadow of the Soviet bayonets, the XX. A law, which was a Constitution in force until 2011 with a number of amendments. [[16.00]] Therefore, after the 2010 elections, the demand for Hungary to have a new Fundamental Law arose with elemental force; its new Fundamental Law is that the ruins of Communist dictatorships should be completely wiped out after 20 years, thus ending the post-communist period of Hungary. This new Fundamental Law was adopted by the Hungarian Parliament on 18 April. President Paul Schmitt announced it on Easter Monday, 21 April. This new Fundamental Law represents national Christian and traditional European values, strengthening our commitment to the rule of law and democracy. If I were to say one more sentence, we are building a free world that respects freedom and human dignity, but also rejects hatred and exclusion. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-27-228	Now the two representatives of the LMP can speak one by one, first of all the group leader, László László Keresztes. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-229	Thank you so much for the opportunity. Mr President, Mr. Speaker, Dear Parliament, In the content of the previous speakers, perhaps I agreed with Mr Balczó's contribution, but I still have to argue with him. My fellow Member said there was nothing to celebrate. I think we think that freedom, sovereignty, democracy are values that we have reason to celebrate and celebrate. But it is very important not to celebrate a political declaration, not a current government. These events, the achievement of these values, must be remembered. It is even more important that we have to bow down to all those who have fought to implement national self-determination on this important anniversary. I consider this extremely important. At the same time, I must agree with some of my fellow Members who have spoken before me that this could have been done in a worthy manner if an important document had been put before the Parliament with an otherwise possible consensus, which could have been voted in favour of all or at least most of the political groups. This opportunity, and this has been discussed at the Legislative Committee meeting, has been missed by the government side and the Members who have tabled this proposal have failed. I would like to talk briefly about three aspects, which are affected by this particular political declaration; on the one hand, responsibility for Hungarians living outside the border, as a very important result, the implementation of national policy. This must indeed be highlighted, and it is very important that this document highlights this achievement. I think this is very important, and it must be a national fund. I find it very sad that 30 years after the change of regime, this is still the subject of debate on the one hand, so unfortunately there is no complete consensus on this. On the other hand, we are also saddened to see that they are either from a government side or from the side of certain opposition actors, who are also using the issue of national policy for an active political purpose. It's definitely a serious sin. This needs to be changed. Let this be, the responsibility for Hungarians living beyond the borders is a national minimum! If we can achieve that, say, in the next few years, that would be a huge achievement. The following is a reference to the closure of post-communism in the document. There is a part, I would like to quote from this document that the restoration of the country, which has been destroyed by the Communists for more than four decades, has put the members of the new legislation, which is burdened with severe debt, mentally and spiritually crippled, at the expense of a historic challenge. We agree perfectly with this wording, and it has its place in such a document. At the same time, allow me one more quote. Twenty years ago, an important debate took place in the Parliament, and a motion on the Memorial Day of the victims of communist dictatorships was tabled by a Member, Béla Horváth. In the course of the debate, the rapporteur said, among other things, that I believe that civil society organisations, some or a significant part of society, in Hungary, want to explore the past, not looking at it, not sneaking up on a wall, but wanting to leave the XX. In addition to the crimes of the century. That was 20 years ago. At that time, a strong applause from Fidesz-KDNP was heard at the meeting by the pro-government representatives. Unfortunately, we must say that the change of regime cannot be regarded as complete, because this confrontation, the exploration of the past of state security, has not been achieved. In this way, no parliamentary majority in the last thirty years has given the victims of communist dictatorships the respect that this has had. It's a huge omission. If nothing else, the 30th anniversary should give us an opportunity to replace this omission, this serious omission, by the Parliament. This would have been one occasion, a worthy memorial, a worthy celebration if the Parliament had taken this. On the other hand, Fidesz-KDNP has voted down the LMP proposal on the implementation of the public disclosure twenty times so far. I would like to talk about one more thing, a very important thing, perhaps the most important thing: national self-determination, national sovereignty, our freedom, which is still facing very serious challenges. We could also use the wording of Mr. Máté Kocsis, the fact that we are under great external pressure, and we could also talk about the pressure of the pro-Empires. That is absolutely correct. If we look at the results of the policy of the last ten years, how many hundreds of thousands of people have been forced to leave the country, we have unfortunately come to the point that one in six Hungarian children in motherland are born abroad. Exposure and economic exposure are increasing. Unfortunately, we can very often conclude that the political or economic interests of the moment have an advantage over the representation and representation of national interests, and that there is a great deal of power. So if we have to ask that question now, on the 30th anniversary of the change of regime, and ask whether there is now a government that represents Hungarian national interests responsibly and without compromise, then we have to say that there is no. In conclusion, I would like to say, fellow Members, that we have reason to celebrate this great anniversary, but then we can do the best we can, and we can do the best we can, and we can do the right thing for our predecessors, if we are always guided by the representation of national interests not only in our words, but also in our actions. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-27-230	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Dialogue Group has given the MSZP fraction five minutes of its own time frame and announced this. I just said that the other representative of the LMP, Mr Ungár, may speak, but on behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary has applied. He's got the floor. I would like to remind you that you have a total of four minutes and 30 seconds for the government. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-231	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. I did not plan to comment, but Mr Keresztes's speech encouraged me to comment, and I would only like to respond to one subject in a precise manner, which is the researchability of the data available in the Historical Archives of the State Security Services. I'd like to ask you to end this once and for all. It's a fake tops, a fake opposition balloon that you blow from time to time, it's just not true. The data available in the Historical Archives of the State Security Services can be researched. Just to confirm that, I myself asked for information about my own family. I can inform you that, in relation to my own family, my ancestors, my grandparents, special personal data, such as sexual orientation data, are available. As concerned, it is family-related, and I do not want this data to be made public, precisely the data on victims, which is why there is a system that was developed partly before 2010 by the Fidesz-KDNP government, partly after 2010, in which there will be a balance between the protection of victims and the accountability of the culprits. So I would like to point out once again that this is a false tops, what you are saying is that these data cannot be researched. I would like to ask that, for the sake of respect for factual debate, this false tops should no longer be repeated here, within the walls of the Parliament, and in particular not in the negotiation of a statement of its historical significance and context. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-27-232	Thank you. Mr Péter Ungár, Member of the LMP. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-233	Thank you very much for the floor and for the opportunity to speak to him now. Mr Secretary of State, I would like to begin by saying that it is not a joint and several responsibility, as appropriate, for those who have been hit and then have been agents, as those who have recruited these people. However, to this day, we do not know the names of the persons who recruited us, we do not actually know anything about who worked in III/II. So the fact that it would be public in Hungary today is not a fact, so please do not claim it. You created the NEB, the National Remembrance Committee, which has received a great deal of state money from you, but I can't tell you exactly what you're doing other than putting this case on the ground since you created it. So the fact is that there is no public interest in Hungary. When in Hungary and this comes to the essential part of this, it is said that the post-communist era will be concluded by the adoption of the new Fundamental Law, the Fundamental Law that I would refer to Mr Vejkey was proclaimed by a President of the Republic who, to say the least, was not a fierce enemy of the Kádár system to speak with a euphemism, is in itself telling me what they think of the end of the post-communist era. [[16.10]] I thought and didn't think, because I am the youngest Member, and I hope that in twenty or thirty years' time I will also have the opportunity to say that in many things I didn't say the right thing, and I said stupidity at the time, it would have been an opportunity to tell the Group of Young Democrats, including the Speaker, that in the first term, the formation of which, let's say, we decided what Fidesz said in the coat of arms, what Fidesz said about Trianon, what Fidesz said about the Zétényi-Takács settlement debate, and that their position was changed, say, like the Christian Democrats, in the current lesser governing party. So what I wanted to say was that Fidesz would certainly have expected such a self-reflective exercise for a worthy memorial. But basically I think that the problem is not in itself that we are debating what Mr Balczó said about whether there could have been reprivatisation or not, or why many people think that the need for a change of regime has not been met. It is natural that we are debating historical events; such debates should not be elegantly affected by such a text, since there can never be a national consensus in these debates. But there would be things in which there could be a national consensus. I and my political community are very critical of the European Union, and yet one of the cornerstones that Fidesz actually feels is that Hungary was moving towards European integration after 1990, which my fellow Member Hörcsik said. Such and other things could have been formulated, which lay the foundations of some kind of national consensus. You have done this because of the fact that you know exactly that every other party outside the majority of the government is opposed and politically attacked, for one reason, that there is no consensus in this matter. That was your political goal in this regard, so that you could tell us how terrible it is that there cannot be a national consensus on such a matter, and you have deliberately said that it cannot be. And if there was a public record in Hungary, as State Secretary Orbán says, then they would have accepted Lóránt Keresztes László and my amendment, which is about the reference to the Fundamental Law, which was announced by the Deputy Minister of the Kádár system, and instead we would have taken it out and put it in Hungary. If we already have one, the inclusion in a political statement is of little importance, and then let's say the LMP Group could have voted in favour of this statement. So we can't do that, because the whole point of this is to reduce this holiday to themselves, to acknowledge your interpretation of the only thing that exists. One thing I am missing from this statement is that it is a subjective thing that I miss this, as the representative of the Green Party of Hungary, the protests in Bős-Nagymaros, as a prelude to the change of regime, where there were more of the current majority of government. [[To intervene:]] No, so that you would have been involved or explained in detail why this is important, or if it were about things that go beyond your personal political opinion. Finally, I would like to say that we will not be able to celebrate with the opposition parties, we will not be able to celebrate with the ruling parties, so we will celebrate together, alone. [[For signal:]] So the party will celebrate alone, and we ask that the national consensus be sought [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] Make it happen. They could have done it if they'd accepted our amendments. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-27-234	One of man's important weaknesses is to lose his sense of humor, so everyone must maintain their sense of humor and exercise it in accordance with the dignity of the House. [[Defiance.]] On behalf of the Government, State Secretary Orbán asked for a two-minute speech, so he can speak in no more than two minutes. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-235	Thank you very much, Mr President, it won't take two minutes. I would just like to offer Mr Ungár something for his attention, because I know that he is showing a particular interest in history. I would like to bring to your attention the website of the National Remembrance Committee, where all the documents relating to this can be found and accessible, at least what is available, and even other scientific work will help to detect crimes committed in the communist system. Moreover, this structure was created by the Fundamental Law, in connection with which the current political declaration also wishes to commemorate, and which says that state memory of dictatorship must be preserved, the power of the communist dictatorship must be explored and the perpetrators of non-exaggeration crimes should be explored. This is the task of the National Remembrance Committee, that is what experts do, and that is what I cannot understand for reasons that you and the entire opposition side are opting for. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-236	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy, representative of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-237	Thank you very much. Mr President, I'm about to find my microphone. [[He's putting his microphone on.]] Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A lot has been said here in this debate. I would like to point out from the very beginning that the MSZP is a change of regime party, and if we do not correctly assess the position and role of the MSZP, then we are making a mistake. This is a mistake you have made with this declaration, because the fact that such a peaceful transition could have been in Hungary, that the transition was bloodless, is also due to the leaders of that time. Therefore, if you have often referred to József Antall, which you have done correctly, if we are talking about the change of regime, then it is worth referring to Miklós Németh, Imre Pozsgay or Gyula Horn, as they also had a role in this change of regime. They had a role to play in making this change of regime peaceful and calm. This change of regime, by the way, took place on a negotiated basis in the context of an Opposition Round Table negotiation. It is true that it was not supported or signed by then liberals, Fidesz and SZDSZ, but nevertheless an agreement on this regime change was reached on a public negotiated road. And that wasn't perfect? I'm sure that's true. That many were disappointed in the change of regime in Hungary? I'm sure there's a lot of truth to that, too. I would add that there must have been a lot of disappointments on both sides, for different reasons, of course, in this change of regime. If they wanted to have a real celebration or celebration from these thirty years, we would have certainly had to put this statement together, not only by fidesz MEPs, and certainly the text would have had to reflect a different spirit, because it is very difficult to interpret it differently, as many opposition fellow Members have already said, that this is a declaration for party policy purposes, not a preparation for a common national holiday. I believe that this text is also disbarring, and that the sentences of Congressman Vejkey, when he was talking about post-communists or faction leader protégé, and if I understood Mr Vejkey's words correctly, he actually questioned the right of the MSZP to exist here in this Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that when Jobbik was still taking far-right views and openly expressing racist or xenophobic views, you argued that they had a place in the Hungarian Parliament because they were elected by the Hungarian people. Therefore, I think that equal standards should be set if the people and the Prime Minister refer to this word a lot, and the Prime Minister often refers to the fact that the people have legitimised, please, that this party has also been legitimized by the people. By winning three elections. In 1994 Gyula Horn won an absolute majority over 50 percent after the Antall government. From now on, I think that either they should never refer to the people again, or that they will accept this reference and this argument in any other case. It's also weird that you're talking about post-communists like that. My Fidesz group leader partner was nine years old? When the change of regime took place, I, I think, was sixteen, so you and I must be as much communists as we are, that's for sure. But it can also be said that in your government... [[On the sign of Máté Kocsis:]] If you do not understand, Congressman, then if I was 16 at the time of the change of regime, it is very difficult for me to accuse myself of being 46 now, so that you can calculate that I have lived more in the period after the change of regime than before. So in Hungarian, communisting each other in this form is illegal and illegal. Especially if in your government, my honourable fellow Member, there are more members of the former MSZMP than in our MSZP faction. So from now on, I get it, when you're always calling out double standards, but then when it comes to you, of course, you'll forget about it and you won't take it into account. So I think if you're talking about it, you should pay attention to what you're arguing about and what you're getting. They say the MSZP is a successor party. Legally, yes, but not in any way. It is important that I draw your attention to a remarkable course of development. The MSZMP has become the MSZP, and a dictatorial party has become a European democratic party with conviction, reformists or reformists. This development, I think, is a respectable development, and it came from internal conviction, values, a social Democratic values system. [[16.20]] I think it is much more worrying when another democratic European party has taken the opposite course in the last thirty years of the change of regime. And this party is Fidesz, a European, then even a liberal democratic party, has become a more autocratic party in the last thirty years. This change of direction is far more dangerous than the MSZP's. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-27-238	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, There is no other name on the monitor, and it is my duty to ask that someone else would like to speak in the remaining timeframes and make use of the opportunity to speak. [[For signal:]] Speaker László Fat, representative of Fidesz. With all due respect, Fidesz has a time frame of 4 minutes and 5 seconds to speak. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-239	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I originally did not intend to comment on this debate, and I came to the Chamber at all because, as a rapporteur, I thought that I should be here when there is a debate on a proposal on which I am among the signatories, but listening to the comments of my fellow opposition Members, I cannot stop commenting on this debate. On the one hand, although I have not been involved in setting the time frame, I am very grateful to my fellow Members who have concluded that this proposal should be discussed in the shortest possible time frame, because that is enough, I think. So if there is a failure of the system change I am the last one to deny that it would be, then one of its fundamental failures and precisely its initial failure was that there was no consensus in the most fundamental values even at the beginning. So let's leave the story of the change of system as where wolves and lambs fell on each other's necks, I say to Attila Mesterházy with the utmost respect, and then the wolves promised to convert to the vegetarian diet. So we made it clear on June 16th that there was no thanks to the Communists for the fact that they could have, but they didn't shoot at us. But this, let's just say, they couldn't stop until 2006, because they didn't do it in 2006. I mention this only to those who have given the last thirty years some kind of interpretation, as if there had been a straight-line development here, with arms attached, of course, with significant differences of opinion. And of course, the new futures have an easy situation, because they can refer to the fact that they weren't there in the first 20 years. [[Bence of Turda: Yeah, they were there.]] No, not at all, but it is a different question, there, only through their ancestors, through their buddies, through their later patrons, or personally, my fellow Member Balczó even mentioned this here as a party, there are new ones in the Chamber, but it is not certain that politics itself is new. So, this last thirty years, which is certainly not a success story, this is not, by the way, a statement, it was a struggle that actually took place to complete the change of system. So if someone thought it was possible, in an instant, to change the system, and it all worked out, then he was wrong, unfortunately, to this day we still have to cover some of the traces of the previous system. I will mention only one thing: once again, the politicians of the successor party: it took ten years to eliminate in 2000 the advantage of the MSZP as a successor party that he could use for free property inherited from the stolen property of the MSZMP. So much for equal opportunities and fair electoral conditions. And one last remark to those who are dictatorshipists, please don't be angry about the personal aspects: it is just today, by accident, that I have lived in democracy as much as I did during the dictatorship of the Communists. So those of me who have lived a day less in dictatorship should not teach me what democracy is, because I have seen both. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-240	Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, has a time frame of five minutes. Here you go. [[László Fat leaves the meeting room.]]
u2020-04-27-241	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am very sorry that Speaker László Kövér cannot wait for the opinion of the opposition [[Péter Cseresnyés: He doesn't want to see you!]] on parliamentarianism and its relationship with Fidesz [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Oh, how weak!]] but it is obvious that it is completely cynical that the Fidesz-KDNP, which has done the most to empty and destroy parliamentary democracy, now wants to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the change of regime and the formation of the new Parliament. We do not live in a dictatorship and are not shot at by anyone, but we are living in a hybrid regime, a competitive authoritarian system in which they do everything they can to abuse their power in order to make you irreplaceable. You will do everything in your power to describe the dignity of this House to zero. [[Peter Cseresnyés intervenes.]] Even though the Fidesz colleague is here, you are the ones who wrote the House's dignity completely to zero when a one-party Fundamental Law was passed. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Oh!]] Of course, anyone can write the following Hungarian Fundamental Law or Constitution on their small tablet, but others do not take the liberty of abusing the majority of them, it is accepted with virtually one-party support, without any debate or substantive social legitimacy. The other original sin, perhaps in the last ten years, is the customization of the electoral law to Fidesz, which allowed the state party to earn two thirds by 44 percent of the votes in the 2014 elections. Let's add that Fidesz-KDNP would have lost in both 14 and 18 if the old electoral law had been in force. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Election Districts!]] This is also a level of abuse of legislative power that is unprecedented in the past 30 years of the Republic of Hungary. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: The Fidesz has won 91 constituencies! The president's ringing the bell.]] Let's go back to the speech when they stop yelling. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches.]] I know it bothers you to tell me the truth, but it doesn't mean you're the one who's gonna be in the history book with small prints on the black card in black letters. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Oh, how weak! Shame on you.]] You are the ones who have already been condemned by virtually all international organisations, all supranational organisations, because Hungarian parliamentary democracy has been dismantled because the Hungarian rule of law has been broken down. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: For example? The president's ringing the bell.]] And indeed, the system changers made mistakes that allowed you to abuse this situation. A mistake was made in the process of changing the regime when it was thought that creating a system of brakes and counterweights would be a guarantee enough. They made a mistake when they did not pay enough attention to the involvement of members of society in democracy and did not pay attention to creating the safety of members of society, the security of life, which together would have guaranteed the establishment of a strong social base on which a democracy can rely, on which a truly functioning, prosperous democracy can be built. The Dialogue saw these mistakes, we saw them in the late 2000s. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Who is Dialogue?]] We have also written these down, but we also see that you are implementing an authoritarian trend here in the last ten years, and from this point on, the mockery of democratisation is that you are celebrating yourself using the concepts of parliamentarism, who, with the President of the House who has just left, have limited the rights of Parliament, not only the rights of Members of Parliament, the rights of opposition representatives, but also the publicity of the whole Parliament, the freedom of the press, and I could continue to assist you on a lengthy basis with the reproach that Viktor Orbán and his government have done with the aim of breaking down the brakes and balances, eliminating democracy and putting people at risk. So all I want to see on this anniversary is that they're gonna take an account of you. Obviously, they won't be doing this here, but I suspect they'll have sleepless nights, because I'm sure if they have any consciences left, they can't look in the mirror with a good heart, they can't stand up proudly and say, yes, I did a lot for Hungarian parliamentary democracy. So, accordingly, you should be ashamed of bringing this whole farce to the National Assembly. Thank you for your patience. [[Péter Cseresnyés: He has given up his lesson!]] [[16.30]]
u2020-04-27-242	I would like to inform you that, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, the government's timeframe has been removed from the Fidesz timeframe, which has been improved. That is why Fidesz has a little more than a minute of its speaking time. On behalf of the Government, Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, asked for the floor. He's got a minute and nine seconds. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-243	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Congressman of Turda, This whole proposal would be about learning the Hungarian quality of existence again. We've had 30 years to do this. Everything you've told me is nothing more than a can, a template talk. The hybrid regime is also an expression imported from abroad. At least make up a Hungarian expression for your own topsas! [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: That's right! That's right.]] As a gravedigger of democracy, he spoke of Fidesz MEPs and said that they would be written in black in a black book. That won't be a popular book and a long book, I have to tell you. Democracy does not mean that the one who pleases Tordai Bence wins, but the one who is chosen by the people [[Dr. Richard Hörcsik: That's right!]] and I think that this proposal can be supported precisely because it teaches this. Learn from the statement. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-27-244	Thank you very much. Congressman Attila Mesterházy will be here in 35 seconds. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-245	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I suggest you learn less because learning and using evil is a greater sin than not knowing something. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to tell you that you're not the only system changers. You have to understand that. That's what I'm talking about. That's one of them. Two. You don't want to celebrate if you like it, Mr President, if you don't, you want to exclude and expropriate another historic, Hungarian national historical event. Three. Since you've been here a lot of communists, I can tell you that what we've heard from some of you here with proper respect is a strong Bolshevik tempo. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-04-27-246	Dear Parliament, I'm going to ask if there's anyone else who can speak in the remaining time frame. [[For signal:]] Congressman Zsolt Németh, Fidesz; you have one minute and two seconds. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-247	Ladies and gentlemen, I called this inability to accept a joint declaration a shock before it was obvious that we were unable to accept a statement together. My experience in the Legislative Committee led me to this not-so-complicated conclusion, but I believe that all of you, my fellow Members, who attach all kinds of negative intentions to the signatories, the initiators in the opposition, know very well what motivated us when we put this proposal on the table, that this text would have been born with an explicit intention of exclusion, as we have heard earlier. In this connection, I would like to say to you that this text seeks to: [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Tell me. And I regret that you have not come up with understandable, acceptable amendments, but [[The president's ringing again.]] They used this opportunity to make accusations. I find it regrettable. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-04-27-248	Anybody else want to tell me? [[No one's reporting.]] I'm gonna say no. As no one else wishes to speak, Honourable Parliament, the consolidated debate is closed. I would like to ask the author or his pointers if they would like to say a national closing. One minute 35 seconds is possible. [[Zsolt Németh: I told you.]] I appreciate that no, or I take the previous speech of Mr Németh, not legally, but as a substantive rapporteur's opinion. [[Zsolt Németh, György Balla and Máté Kocsis nod.]] So the debate was over. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that the decisions will take place on the 2 May meeting. Thank you very much for your participation in the debate. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. Please leave the room in accordance with the information provided by the Director General, so as to ensure the protection of everyone's health. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. First among these, the representative of Jobbik, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, may say, "How long?" It's an address. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-249	Mr President, Dear House, It has been a rather disappointing experience following Parliament's work in the last few hours, since the government and opposition side has been trying to explain the often unexplainable from their own isms. Now, when my fellow pro-government Members gather and leave the room, we will be talking about real people's real problems. I wish them a happy, pleasant, long weekend this Monday afternoon! [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Shame on you! While there are committee meetings!]] I have to say, while the Fidesz-KDNP is talking about an economic rescue package and while it is visiting an economic protection package and not paying attention to real people's real problems, implementations, enforcement bans [[Dr. Hoppál turned to Peter:]] My fellow Member is the only one who has remained unchanged. And if you are here, you can explain: how can it be that while in the mass media they lie about the fact that the safety of all Hungarians is guaranteed and guaranteed, and it has also been said today that those who lose their jobs will find another one in a secure manner, so that they will be caught up in absolutely amazing statements, the fact is that the bans imposed by executives, 33 percent and 50 percent bans affect small pensions and the lowest incomes in Hungary now, at the present moment, can be experienced in Hungary? And we also see that if we look at the people who are extremely burdened with this problem, which you are not avoiding or even negotiating, because they have not sent a man here who will now respond to this question, even though they are looking forward to the list of speeches after the agenda, yet they did not consider it important to discuss this extremely important issue, at least at this minimum level of a few minutes. There are car-crediters who have shared their data through social media that, over the years, three to four times the cost of the car at that time, they have still to pay, and the enforcer is still undermining their small income. Several reported that their family members have now returned from hospital or from a chronic care facility. There was also an example in which a person returned home to his family instead of post-amputation plastic surgery, obviously challenging very seriously family members who did not perform nursing and who may not have all the skills needed in such a situation. But in the case of these families, there is no mercy from the enforcer. Among the family members who remain and are able to work, they also encounter 33 percent and 50 percent bans. We've also met people, people with car credit, real estate loans at the same time. The executors had already taken the car and all the movable assets, the apartment could be temporarily grouped into the National Asset Manager, but last year, when it was possible to buy back the property, they could not do so precisely because there was a lack of legal background, and if they had used this buy-back, the overruns of the executive bands would have started from the first moment. In this way, they would have taken the property, so as long as they could and tried to stay in it, they would rent back their former home; 50 percent of their salary will be banned by the executives for decades. At the moment, many of these fellow humans live on occasional jobs, and some live on days, precisely so that these bans are worth a small portion of income, but this may not be a career with great prospects. And so a lot of people have complained that the total amount of credit is already about three times the capital debt, and now they have to meet reduced working hours because of the government's actions called economic protection. They also get reduced wages for less work than before. However, this reduced wage is equally affected by the bans. Once again, 33 percent and 50 percent bans on the smallest pensions, even the lowest wages. This is the real problem of tens of thousands of real people. I find it quite amazing that, one and a half months after the crisis started, no reaction or manifestation of their problem was expressed at government level. [[16.40]] In recent hours, we have heard much about how this government praises its own performance. With the foundation, even if you were right, you could do this if you didn't leave our entire social groups at the edge of the ditch in a chemically clean, neoliberal way in Hungary, and you completely ignored the problem of those people. [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Lies!]] The ones we bring in. Response, no response [[Dr. Peter Hoppál: Lies!]] yelling, big vests, high-pitched. This is your Hungary. Shame on you! [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-04-27-250	Dear Parliament, Member István Simicskó, representative of KDNP, notary of the National Assembly, is speaking with the title "World Day of the Blind Dogs." Mr. Messenger, please.
u2020-04-27-251	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The World Day of Guide Dogs was celebrated for the first time on 27 April 1994. I'm going back a little bit in history, because as early as 1916, in the middle of World War I, when many of the wounded and injured people who went blind on the front, took me home from the front, they set up the first blind dog school in Oldenburg, Germany. It was a very, very important gesture for the wounded. Then, of course, there was obviously a break, and I am about to find out how the world of guide dogs and the training of this at school level developed in Hungary. Allow me, however, to say a few words about dogs in general, about man's most loyal companion. According to science, about 25 to 30 thousand years ago, a dead subspecies of the gray wolf joined man. It is no coincidence, perhaps, over the past millenniums, that human science has given the dog the Canis lupus familiaris sign; it is the only living thing in the animal world that has received the familial symbol, the family-related symbol, thus expressing humanity's appreciation for the loyalty and extraordinary ability of the dog. Indeed, when we talk about extraordinary abilities, let us consider that their sense of smell, hearing, or spatial insight, or speed is far beyond man's ability, I might add that they may sometimes be stronger even in the ability of loyalty than our fellow human beings are compared to other humans. Think about how extraordinary the dog can smell, for for example, it can smell a spoonful of dissolved salt in 5,000 liters of water. It also senses sulphuric acid in 10 millionth dilution. It is no coincidence, for it is done by 224 million olfactory cells, while man has only at best 150,000 olfactory cells. Ladies and gentlemen, Dogs helped and helped man during his hunting, in the woods, in the fields, on the water, protect man's house, his house, his family, his values. There were dogs in human wars as combat dogs, beacons, cargo carriers, medics and rescue dogs. In fact, the first astronaut Lajka dog, who gave his life so that human science could move forward and develop in this dimension, is certainly well known to all. Today's natural disasters save the lives of many, many people, help our visually impaired and blind neighbors, and often mean not only to them, but also a loyal companion to many people, in many cases a single faithful companion. Let's look at the situation in Hungary. The Blind Guide Training Center was launched in Csepel in Hungary in 1976. Thanks to János Rithnovszky, the first head of the school was Gyula Fehér, who had an excellent reputation for dog training. Over the past 40 years, nearly a thousand dogs have been released from this dog training school, and about 15-20 dogs can be trained every year to help blind and visually impaired people. 71 people are waiting for a dog right now. The training of a dog is not cheap, HUF 3.2 million, but from the age of one year to 6-7 months, dogs are constantly trained to meet expectations. The guide dogs give their masters their eyes in addition to their loyalty. Ladies and gentlemen, The visually impaired person should be led to think of avoiding obstacles in his path, indicating the stairs, the door, the time of crossing the zebra, even complying with road safety rules, it is almost unbelievable that a dog can do this, but it can be taught by our excellent trainers. It takes great patience and knowledge from trainers, love and loyalty from dogs. This is a great help to our blind fellowman and to our weak - looking fellow man. That is why I would also like to say on this holiday that we owe respect and honor to the staff of the dog training school, who are working every day to give our blind and weak-sighted neighbors dogs who help their everyday lives. In many cases, it is also therapeutic. Today, for modern people, when digital competences are very, very advanced, and IQ is very, very strong and high quality for many, many of our fellow humans, the dog also develops emotional intelligence. Finally, I would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by not forgetting that caring for a dog makes a man a little more human. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-04-27-252	Thank you very much. Congressman Péter Hoppál, representative of Fidesz, will follow with the title of the emergency rampage of Pécs' opposition leadership. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-253	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The last week's statements and actions of the mayor of Pécs cannot be put in another term than that of the mayor who swore on October 13, 2019 before the autumn municipal elections and believed that he would like to continue his professional work as mayor and would not want to politicalize. In six months this promise and this vow evaporated, and today a whole series of national politics and anti-government outbursts followed each other from the mouth of Mayor Attila Péterffy of Pécs. That's a very sad catch. A whole range of national and local media gave this spree run with different headlines: Peterffy kicks in from where he receives his help; the Zsolnay Heritage Manager was called in a letter to pay as the POSZT, the National Theatre Meeting Ltd. of Pécs; a terrible mischief is taking place around the POSZ, but there is no way for it to be done on purpose; an open letter to Mayor Péter Péter Péterffy Attila Hoppál; the mayor took a double step in the government, even though the state pays for the entertainment of the Pécs; if the cultural flagships of Pécs fall, the town's reputation and entertainment are lost. Ladies and gentlemen, We are talking about a city, the city of Pécs, whose historical history may have created only a cultural institution that is comparable to the capital. It is no coincidence that in 2010 Pécs was the first in the history of the country to be able to represent Hungary as a whole at the event of the European Capital of Culture. The establishment of a rich institutional system prior to that, and then the new institutions and Cubas built in connection with the 2010 season resulted in the fact that the largest, largest institutional network and buildings and structures in the countryside in Hungary are indeed available in the city of Pécs. In the 30 years since the change of regime, the 2016 and the third Orbán government brought the festive moment when, finally, seeing the importance of cultural decentralisation, the government decided not only to contribute to the financing of cultural institutions in Budapest, but also to the financing of the large cultural institution in Pécs, which goes far beyond the mandatory tasks of a city. This commitment is subject to an annual financing agreement. However, this year's financing agreement has not yet been reached. The cultural government has negotiated a package with the city leadership of Pécs. One of the important parts of the package is the National Theatre of Pécs, which is 125 years old this year, so it celebrates the jubilee year of one and a quarter-century if it can celebrate, because according to the chronicles, there has never been such a thing as a wage payment in the National Theatre of Pécs. Today, the HUF 48 million bank credit line of HUF 50 million is already being exploited at the National Theatre of Pécs, so there may be wage pay problems at the Teatre if the government-city agreement is not reached in the next few days. [[16.50]] The same omission is made that the city of the January government offer of Zsolnay Heritage Management Nonprofit Kft. To date, it has not accepted its funding, which is an institution or a company that manages a huge portfolio, from world heritage sites through the Kodály Center and the Zsolnay Cultural Quarter, to many smaller institution units, including Pannon Philharmonic. For the operation of all portfolio elements, the government provides HUF 1.9 billion in additional, extra-normative state support under an annual renewed contract. In this, however, the cultural portfolio said that it would be appropriate, as in the decision of 6-7 years ago, when the State took possession of Filharmónia Magyarország Kft. and made it a Pécs-based, but state-owned kft., perhaps the same should be done with the Zsolnay Heritage Manager. This agreement is waiting for you. We are confident that the amok run will end, and the compromise will finally be found by the mayor with the cultural government, and the black cloud will go above the city. It's in everyone's best interest. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-04-27-254	Thank you very much. Mr Lóránt László Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group, will be next:.. We still have 10 days to defend the national regions. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-255	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You could say it's a lucky stand to speak after Péter Hoppál as another MP in Pécs. I would like to advance, Mr President, that I too am proud of the cultural heritage of our city, I think the cultural institution system is great, and I believe that I have never been able to be accused of being a believer in any way that I would have been in the socialist city administration before 2009, and I have always been critical to it. However, let us not forget, honourable Member, that Fidesz has been given exactly ten years in 2009-2019 to prove in Pécs that it has been given ten years to put the extremely difficult and indebted city in order. What is the sad balance of your ten-year-old activity? Today Pécs has become the city with the weakest economy among the large rural regional centres. In terms of industrial production per capita, Baranya County became the last nationwide. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: This is 20-year-old data!]] Pécs's business tax revenue is less than half the Szombathely. Honourable Congressman, In the wake of the 44 billion-dollar government debt transfer, you were able to recreate more than 20 billion forints of debt and thus transfer the city last year. This city has lost a great deal of money. [[Dr. Péter Hoppál: The Socialists left it here!]] Mr President, honourable Member, and it contributes to your destruction at local level to the government's policy of the kind that has not supported the tasks, but has been constantly diverting resources from cities. And that is why the situation could develop, honourable Member, on the one hand, through the government and, on the other, through your local activities, in which you played a prominent role, that this city is forced to receive state aid to maintain its great cultural institutions. Dear Congressman Peter Hoppál, I would like to warn you that you did not receive your mandate from Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, not from Fidesz, not from his party, but from the people of Pécs, as elected Member of Parliament in the individual district. Therefore, you should not lobby to nationalise the assets of the Pécs, but to work to protect the assets of the Pécs, honourable Member. You have an obligation to account for the people of Pécs, you should protect the values of the people of Pécs, and fight for the rights of the workers of Pécs, not to serve the government, even after such an outrageous ten-year-old destruction. And I say this, Mr honourable Member, that the LMP was not, on the spot, part of this particular coalition of governments or local city leadership coalition, nor is it part of it, we are independent of them, we have obtained local representation of the local government, and personally I regret that some emblematic figures of the shameful socialist city leadership before 2009 may once again shine on the town hall as revealing figures. I think this is shameful, but I think, honourable Member, that after the destruction of the last ten years, you have the least opportunity to criticize the current city leadership. That's all I wanted to say as a reaction. And then it is a very, very important issue, to support the issue of national regions. In February, the Parliament adopted a proposal for a parliamentary resolution, with the support of six factions, to support the European citizens' initiative to support and promote the development of national regions, launched by the Szekler National Council. We have seen that after many months, from February, after having received more attention in the press, the number of signatures started very spectacularly and in a very positive way, so there have been a lot of people across Europe, in the Carpathian Basin, using the possibility of collecting signatures online. We have also seen it, and in recent days we have seen that, fortunately, there have been a lot of signatures on paper. However, we must be aware that the signing period of this important initiative expires on 7 May. We can say that the number of online signatures is now well above 300-320 thousand, but a few days ago we also learned this very positive development that the DAHR collected 150 thousand signatures, and we know that other Hungarian parties from Transylvania were also collecting, so we can say that the collection of the necessary signatures is well beyond half. That is why I wanted to talk about this extremely important issue in Parliament, and I would ask everyone here that, despite the fact that it is now clearly difficult to collect signatures, not only in Hungary, but also throughout Europe, because of the very serious but also important curfew restrictions, we should take the opportunity to work parallel, to work at home, and to spend more time on the Internet than before, so I urge everyone to take a few minutes to support this extremely important European citizens' initiative with one or two clicks on the National Regies.eu page. We have ten more days to do this, so I ask not only everyone who has not signed this initiative online to support it and, as far as possible, share this opportunity with as many of their friends as possible. Let us use the remaining ten days to collect as many signatures as possible for this extremely important European values and for the European citizens' initiative on the issue of Hungarians. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-27-256	Thank you very much. Mr László Hajdu, representative of DK, is: Circuit Against the Coronary Virus. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-257	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would not only like to talk about the fight against the epidemic of my constituency, Rákospalota, Pestújhely and Újpalota, but also about the fact that this fight, which I may say on behalf of the other municipalities, is being carried out both in Budapest and in the countryside, because in the afternoon, in the reply of the Secretary of State to the immediate questions, there was not a penny coming from the EU in the fight against the coronal virus or the epidemic. The municipalities can say that the government hasn't paid a penny for this purpose. So the Hungarian authorities solve and organise the fight against the epidemic from their own budgets, and after an approved budget, they announced that we had an extraordinary situation or an emergency and that there would be regulation governance, and then the mayors received this regulation. Of course, the 15th. in the district, which is my constituency, Mrs. Mayor of DK, despite the fact that the panel does not meet, the mayor also decides on board issues, in each case the agendas in which he intends to take a decision are sent to the Members, he gives an opinion, and so he decides, contrary to what we have seen before in Komlón, Szekszárd or Nagykanizsán, where the mayor has appointed a deputy mayor and accepted the budget of the settlement in one person. I would like to mention that they are not only left to themselves, and alone they are forced to transfer funds from their own budgets to this unexpected event, but they have actually received a tribute. Earlier, one hundred percent of personal income tax was withdrawn, and then for the purposes of nationalised education, it had to pay a solidarity contribution for the fourth year, and this solidarity contribution was increased by 18 percent in the year of the virus, and now it is 600 million forints that contribute to the operation of the schools, the structures taken from us without compensation, by the Klebelsberg Kunó Institutional Supporter. Of course, we could have run it under these conditions, but we didn't get that. I think it is very important that we pay the minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage for the fourth year, with only an 8 percent increase at a press conference. In order to do this, there is supposed to be no task funding in the municipalities, but it also manages it, and this is an item of 200 million. [[17.00]] I would add that 40 percent of the motor vehicle tax was lost in one stroke in this very period of pregnancy, which means a tribute of 260 million forints to the municipality operating in this constituency, and they were even subject to tourist tax and even labeled the business tax for what they could use it for. Under these circumstances, a local government, a district government, a local government, must today fight against the virus, while wanting to give the people there something to make them feel like they're with them. In this district, those who have now been discharged from the hospital under the heading of hospital bed cleaning will receive emergency aid of HUF 50,000, also unscheduled, and a series of rapid measures have been introduced: the rents that people cannot pay because they have lost their jobs, receive a three-month extension, or if their contract is over and they cannot conclude contracts, their contracts will automatically be extended for three months. We are trying to contribute with a series of such small measures to the big task that the government should or should do, but I have never heard, in a briefing, that 3186 municipalities are fighting with the government against the Crown Virus; I am sorry that the Chief Officer has not mentioned this once before. The municipalities are doing their job, but they're on their own. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-27-258	Thank you very much. Mr László Varju, representative of DK, will be followed by the title Újpesten II, the treatment of the coronal virus epidemic. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-259	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, I would like to continue where my honourable fellow Member has left off; not only because we are in a mutual neighbourhood, but in part of Újpest, my fellow Member is a Member of Parliament, acting as an individual elected Member, so that the two districts will otherwise cooperate many times and in many lots, and together we will suffer the damage that the government can really do even in this period, abusing its situation, causing the burden of local governments. I can safely say that the municipalities must do everything in their power to ensure that there is a better situation. In this case, I would like to talk about a specific matter about what the municipality in this district, Újpesten, is doing to reduce the risk of an epidemic and to remedy or reduce its damage. I think we also need to say a few words about the challenges that this poses, exactly what that means in such a district. I see in Újpesten that the municipality is trying to meet its potential, and I can safely say that I am very proud of the activity that has been carried out in this case, since the municipality has undertaken much more than the Fidesz government itself. When the municipality of Újpest has suffered the damage mentioned here by my fellow Member, but let me highlight one of these when, even when it comes to the tax on motor vehicles, the government is also distracted, it also seeks to help the people, the residents, the 100,000 people who live there, in such a way that it seems not to be able to rely on central assistance when talking about protective equipment when we talk about testing. There are 100,000 people here, the district of Újpest, the people who live here on the government's side can't expect any help. On the other hand, the municipality, assuming its own framework, has bought 50,000 medical masks, 5 thousand more protective devices, which are particularly important to doctors and can provide this opportunity to people directly involved in defence. Thank you to everyone who is willing to do this work, even in these circumstances, when they know precisely that these tools are limited in scope of protection. And in the meantime, we can hear the production report of Minister Szijjártó this morning and at the beginning of the meeting about how many masks have come into this country. Well, with all due respect from the Újpest district, these masks are pretty much like Columbo's wife: they've never been seen before. So now would be the time to change this situation, while, of course, I would like to stress it now, because in this matter, I have whipped the government today, that I am very proud of the fact that there has been a small competition between the various preschools in Újpest, about how beautiful a mask can be made, how much it can be made and how much sewing it can help to ensure that the protective equipment is really available to those involved in the defence. In this sense, I can say that the municipality has taken a huge action, using both its financial and organisational capacity and its decision-making options, and essentially doing what the government is not doing, in its place, even in such a way that, when it makes a decree, it provides not only for people over the age of 70, but also for those over 65, when it can help individuals, people living alone, people in such a vulnerable situation, shopping, buying medicines and even walking dogs. Finally, I would like to thank all those involved in this work once again. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And I'm always happy to tell you how they did it in Newpesten. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2020-04-27-260	Thank you very much. Congressman Zoltán Varga, representative of DK, the government also dug up the hatchet against the local governments! You can address your speech with an address. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-261	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't want to embellish with someone else's pen, but I have to say, after László Varju, I'd like to join the solos in front of me, though I'll start with a little more perspective. While all over the world pandemic experts and doctors are struggling with the coronal virus epidemic, economists and economics are fighting the consequences of the social and economic crisis, in Hungary it is the head of government who parades in front of the cameras as a stick-made showman, apparently with increasing enthusiasm, today even dozens of times a day: where in the morning he unloads a cloudy plane on his face, where he occasionally visits hospitals in masks, sometimes only in masks, or even without telling the exact date of the peak of the otherwise least foreseeable epidemic, I must add, even professionals do not know when this will happen here in Hungary, where he announces sound but meaningless economic protective packages on two days. He talks about economic measures that he believes are used to save families, businesses and jobs, but he does not help or even kick those who have been in trouble in the last few days, weeks and months. While there is no doubt that the Mészáros family, the buddy stromanok, the family of the Prime Minister and their businesses receive all government help that hundreds of billions of state orders are handed over to these groups every day, while small and medium-sized enterprises are being destroyed, workers and Hungarian families are losing their jobs overnight and remain without income. I do not want to be right, but the special tax on multinationals and banks will end up being paid by those people, Hungarian families, because of the drastic increase in services, products and inflation, whose soil is disappearing from their feet right now. However, the government does not regard the current state of affairs as an epidemiological economic problem, but rather as a police, military, and even the most formidable war task: military commanders are placed at the head of hospitals, health, in particular the epidemic, perhaps few police officers who can be seen in the operational tribe, they are the ones who speak on health issues, they are the ones who, at the beginning of the morning, are perhaps constantly building up some sort of battle plan. Under the cover of the emergency caused by the epidemic, we see that all inhibitions are now being taken aside by private companies and their management is being replaced, otherwise, without any particular justification, or that patients in need of care who are in a life - threatening state are being expelled from hospitals. [[17.10]] We know very well who reads the news, he may face it every day: the government has not only abandoned millions of Hungarians in recent months, it is not only common sense, it is now declaring war on the European People's Party as well as on the European People's Party. As Debrecen, I come from Debrecen to see how desperate the government has put the municipalities. I also see that almost all the burdens of a health emergency are on the shoulders of the municipalities, and they have them. Now allow me to give you some very interesting songs. This applies only to Debrecen, but of course this applies to almost all municipalities. In Debrecen, the protection costs so far are close to 100 million forints. The government knows very well that it took away the vehicle tax, which in our city alone means HUF 720 million minus, the business tax, and if it stays that way, then when we count the wreckage at the end of the year, it means approximately HUF 2 billion. The loss of parking service can only reach 100 million HUF loss in our city, the tourist tax, similarly to the XV. to the district, again HUF 100 million, but the loss of 2 and a half billion per year of local public transport can increase exponentially due to the known low number of passengers, and the losses of municipal baths, hotels, cultural and sports institutions that are closed are still inaccessible. Despite all the stupid government propaganda in Orbán... After all, we have heard several times a day that instead of all the jobs that have ceased to exist, they create a new one, but no one can tell us how. It's kind of like the bunny from the white hat, but the problem is, the magician shows up. I am afraid that Viktor Orbán will not succeed. So, despite propaganda, local government companies are firing and firing employees instead of keeping these jobs. Dear House, Not only Debrecen, but the budget of hundreds of local governments, thanks to the government's war rhetoric and anti-government measures, has been in a catastrophic situation in less than a month. A few more months, and countless municipalities are impossible to operate. I think we need to take care of this. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-27-262	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, the representative of Jobbik, will be following: When will the Chief of Staff resign? It's an address. Here you go.
u2020-04-27-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is no longer the first time that I have spoken last in this House and, if I may, I would like to outline to the public the extraordinary interests of today on this topic or before the subject. In the House today Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that after three months' unemployment benefit, every person who lost their job because of the epidemic will have a job. This was confirmed today by two immediate questions. So, my fellow countrymen, if you don't have a job after three months, just please knock on the Prime Minister's door, I'm sure you'll have a job. The other important issue, which came up today at the plenary session of Parliament, is that on 2 May, 30 years ago, the Hungarian Parliament met for the first time as a freely elected Parliament after the socialist dictatorship. We discussed this political statement because Fidesz-KDNP thought together to celebrate this great day by putting a dictatorial proposal before the House and saying to the opposition representatives: if you do not accept it, then you do not want to celebrate the importance of the 30-year-old meeting and democratic transformation, you are contradicting it again, you are criticizing again. I'm telling you, a Democrat always makes such a suggestion that he puts it next to him: what else do you want? The president of the Hungarian Parliament could have called a seven-party meeting and said to all the Members of Parliament that we would like to celebrate this great day with you. Well, that didn't happen, and today we had to hear in the House that anyone who wasn't Fidesz, who wasn't KDNP, could only be an enemy. I now turn to the fate of the Hungarian chief of medicine. On April 6, the news came that the Scottish chief of staff, Catherine Calderwood, had resigned because she had twice gone to her second home. When I heard this news, I thought: if the moral standards of the leading politicians were similar in Hungary, the members of the Orbán government would have been replaced at least twice. But, no, there is never any consequence in the parties that govern Hungary. We inherited an officer's chief doctor named Muller Cecilia, who really has all of his CDC degrees, the only thing missing is his epidemiology practice. Because even if you pass 180 epidemiological tests in the GP practice, you're not going to be a CDC yet, because the CDC is the area where the most important is the practice, which is sharp practice. In Hungary, there is now sharp practice. Müller Cecília, National Chief of Staff, has not yet complied with 18/1998. The Minister's Decree of 3 June 2006 on Welfare, which provides for a point by point what should be done in the event of an epidemic to the chief medical officer of the country, government offices and district offices, as well as to general doctors, operating doctors and doctors in all kinds of organizations, has not respected any of these in the world. We've heard it for weeks: it's not mandatory to test it in case of suspicion. But the Minister of Social Welfare decree 16/A. Article 27 and Article 27 (1) (a) What does Section 4 of the Act require? In the event that symptoms typical of the disease appear as a symptom group, there is no discretion, testing, testing, laboratory tests which either confirm or exclude suspicion of infection shall be carried out. Then there's the epidemiological control, the epidemiology isolation, the obligation of epidemiological investigations, and there's the order of epidemiological isolation and control. These are point-by-point details of what needs to be done. What do we see in comparison? For many weeks, there has been no separation, no inspection, no tests, no professional or professional tasks, and no visible defense expected from an officer-general. So I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that it's time for you to resign, too, in connection with the chief of staff in Scotland. Thank you very much.
u2020-04-27-264	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. Thank you for your work. I would like to inform you that the Parliament will resume its session at 11 a.m. on Saturday. Meeting day's closed. Thank you for your work. Good evening, everyone. Goodbye.
