u2020-03-30-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 10th day of the spring session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the meeting will be Mr Attila Móring and Mr Gergely Arató. Dear Parliament, Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, has applied for a speech before the agenda today. I give you the floor, please.
u2020-03-30-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I asked to speak today because obviously everyone in this House who is following the news from the world can see that the countries with the largest and strongest economies in the world, such as the G7, the United States, France, the United Kingdom and Italy, are facing amazing challenges due to the pandemic. And if this epidemic is such a serious challenge for the strongest and largest countries, then, I think, there is enough reason to overcome all kinds of illusions and make it clear to each other and to ourselves that we need to settle for long and difficult protection in several areas. We must protect the health and life of Hungarian people, bring home Hungarians trapped in this dangerous situation from abroad, and restart the Hungarian economy. Ladies and gentlemen, The success of health protection depends to a large extent on the availability of a sufficient number of protection tools. This is not just a question for us, it is a question for all the countries of the world. And all the countries of the world are knocking on China's door today. In many cases, the border between free trade and free robbery is also beginning to fade when it comes to the purchase of health protection equipment. I would like to inform you with respect that Hungary has made its move in time, that the necessary contracts have been concluded, and transports have been launched in order to have sufficient resources in Hungary for successful health protection. In the last week, seven aircraft have supplied Hungary with the necessary medical protection equipment. This week we're expecting 20 aircraft, hundreds of tons of shipments. More than ten million defensive masks will arrive in Hungary, more than 2.5 million rapid tests, 100,000 protective suits and face protectors, 300,000 pairs of gloves, and we are waiting for more than 2,000 respirators this week in order to be able to provide the right defensive work, to protect the lives and health of the Hungarian people. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We can also provide health care workers with all the protective equipment that will enable them to work effectively and safely. However, I must also inform my fellow Members that the greatest Hungarian repatriation action of all time, at least in the modern age, is taking place. Thousands of Hungarians have been stranded abroad due to extremely strict restrictions in air transport. I would like to inform you that, until this morning, we have helped 5583 Hungarian citizens return from different parts of the world, and we are currently working on the return of 2026 Hungarian citizens. I respectfully inform you that 477 Hungarians in the United States and Canada are stranded who want to return home; we are not talking about American Hungarians, we are talking about Hungarians living in Hungary, who have traveled there and would like to come home. For them tomorrow, we will send two planes to Miami, Chicago, Toronto, Los Angeles and New York to collect and bring home the Hungarians stranded there. In Latin America and the Caribbean, 243 Hungarians are waiting for their return, and we are also working on their return. I must say that the coordination of the European Union is too late and is completely insignificant in this respect, so we are working together with the other Central European countries. You have probably all heard about the strict measures in India, and we will resolve the Hungarians' return in the next few days, as we will have to bring home more than 200 Hungarians from Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan, who work in the energy sector in Kazakhstan. I would therefore like to assure you that we have done so in the 5583 cases we have been working on, and we are doing so in 2026 today to help Hungarians who are stranded abroad without their own faults. [[11.10]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we must also focus on relaunching the economy, protecting our position that we are the most attractive investment destination in Central Europe, and also protecting the position of Hungarian companies that have been built in recent years and that can produce competitive products and services throughout the world. Therefore, I respectfully inform you that, as the European Union's standards become easier, we will be putting in place new support and credit opportunities in the near future for Hungarian companies supplying export value chains and large companies. So no one is left alone: we protect the people living in Hungary, we bring home Hungarians stranded abroad, and we restart the economy. I ask your support for this. Thank you, Mr. President, for your patience. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-30-2	Thank you. The representative factions have 2-2 minutes to respond. I give the floor first to László György Lukács, from Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-3	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Thank you very much for your information. You are right, Hungary is facing a very long and difficult period of protection. We therefore thank you for your help and for your work, who have contributed to and contributed to the import and distribution of defence equipment. Their activities are also very important in order to preserve the health of Hungarian people. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, although in the short term, it seems justified that Hungary is left alone in some way and that it is a national isolation or not following a closed-off policy, we really need to take the most important measures locally, but, in the long term, international cooperation and cooperation must not be ignored. After the epidemic is over, Europe and the whole world will certainly face a very difficult economic situation. In particular, there will be a need for international cooperation opportunities which would now be a waste to eliminate and live up to. We would also like to ask the government, and we would suggest to the Minister that the operational tribe should adopt, as soon as possible and immediately as possible, mandatory public masking rules in Hungary, which means that this should be mandatory in public places, in public areas or in larger communities, in workplaces, and we can now see the mask, perhaps the resources will also be provided by the state, and we should not impose this burden on the municipalities. We would also like to draw the attention of the government, although they are probably aware that before the goods to be purchased from China are distributed, they must first undergo a quality check. From Western Europe, but I think we have already received a signal from Hungary that their quality is uneven, and therefore their ability to defend is not even. Focusing on economic protection, in the last sentence, we ask the government to focus on the preservation of jobs and the protection of jobs in its economic protection plans. Create a OSH and job protection fund to help workers in difficulty, but also businesses. It is therefore the government's task in the short term and in the long term, as we see it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-03-30-4	Car-Cake Olivio's next. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, It is unfortunate that the Minister will not be able to respond, so consider it a problem, which I will tell you. There are quality problems in relation to Chinese shipments and it has been noted that they are not of sufficient quality. Please take steps by the Minister to ensure that goods of sufficient quality arrive. My question is, when do they get to health institutions, because we still get feedback from a number of health institutions, that these 3 million masks have not arrived, for example, for front line workers. My question is what the role of steering machines in transporting shipments is. We've got Wizz Air coming in. What is the reason for this? What is the role of government machines in supplying the country? You mentioned, Minister, that the Hungarians must be brought home. I see two problems with this. One is that the Hungarians brought home from America incurred a cost of EUR 800. Is it possible to reduce this cost? This was a serious complaint. The other is that those who do not have a residence permit or a home address are denied entry in the Hungarian Gazette. For example, many Hungarians work in health care in Austria, they might be useful here. They could solve this problem by providing them with accommodation or other solutions. The other thing I'd like to raise is strategic agreements with multi-company companies. There's a lot of them. My question is that with the multi-enterprises that receive huge state aid, Vane is negotiated, there is an agreement with them not to dismiss temporary staff, because unfortunately, this has happened a lot in recent years. I ask the Secretary of State to take these into account in his further work. So we expect the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to be more effective in the future. Thank you very much. [[Moore from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-30-6	Congressman Imre Vejkey is next. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-7	Dear Minister, Thank you for your speech before the agenda, and we agree with everything you have said. Christian democrats believe that the most important thing is the protection of people's health and life. This is the decisive one and the fact that Hungary has a sufficient number of means to defend itself. Therefore, the good news is that China and the Turk Council are helping Hungary with the hundreds of tons of air shipments of protective equipment coming to Budapest. Therefore, the bad news is that the European Union has not given one forint more to fight the Crown Virus than Hungary was entitled to before the pandemic. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: Shame!]] The HUF 2000 billion, for which the opposition press is now glorifying the European institutions, does not mean extra money to Hungarians, it has long been ours. [[11.20]] In addition, the EU's epidemiology centre, the ECDC, has for a long time undermined the spread of coronal virus infection in Europe, has made the situation worse. If you can't help me, at least you won't stop me. Dear Minister, The same applies to the opposition fractions of the Hungarian Parliament, as the representatives of the opposition factions also misread the situation, and we do not get support from them, but we do get support from them. [[Noise on the opposition side.]] The statements of opposition factions suggest that opposition representatives still do not see that they made the wrong choice when a week ago, on 23 March 2020 they did not vote for an urgent trial of the Crown Virus Act. Representatives of opposition factions made the wrong choice, making the same mistake they made several times in recent years, for example in 2015, when immigration was called a false problem. The representatives of opposition factions are not clear, irresponsible in another serious situation at the time of the coronal virus epidemic, but only interested in political gain, and human lives must now be saved. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-8	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that I have not once interrupted the speakers because of the delay in time, because I thought that in this particular case it might be permissible to exceed a few seconds as well as those who replied to the Minister. Attila Mesterházy is next.
u2020-03-30-9	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but I've been hidden behind the column, so it's hard to say. I apologize for the technical complications. Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for what the Hungarian Ministry of Foreign Affairs has done for our Hungarian countrymen stranded on the border. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I think that this is a good effort for the government, and I would like to acknowledge the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that you have done in the last few days. In fact, I also agree with the three issues that the Minister has listed that the Hungarian government should deal with. You said to bring the Hungarians home, protect the people and start the economy again. I would like to suggest one more thing to your attention: we must not only restart the economy, but also protect what is already in the Hungarian economy. We therefore had a number of proposals that served this purpose. Let me point out one thing: for example, small and medium-sized enterprises are likely to need to extend the advantage that the government has already set for certain sectors, for certain sectors, as more and more people are getting into trouble. And I would like to add one more thing, namely that the existence of humans must also be protected. That is why we had a proposal that was about paying 80% of wages in Hungary, as has been done in several neighbouring countries or in other parts of the world. This will help to protect jobs, which the Prime Minister has also spoken about. And I would also like to remind you that all these acquisitions of assets are right, but there is one more thing to do. Namely, many abuse these devices. They ask for such horror prices for a mask or disinfectants because they are not very good at buying them in the store that it would be worth considering the introduction of the government's official price. The other day, I heard the Minister explain why they weren't thinking about the government's price. But even if we don't call it that, the market should be regulated in some way, because now many people have access to the tools they need for front line workers, but on the other hand, people can't get access to them. So there's something the government should do. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2020-03-30-10	I give the floor to Laszlo Varju.
u2020-03-30-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, A week ago, we heard from the Prime Minister that the military plan is the most important, the police, the police plan, and then the health care and finally the economy. [[An uproar on the pro-government side. Dr. Pál Völner: You're lying!]] That is the order in which Prime Minister determined the importance of cases. I am pleased that we are now moving on to preserving and creating the possibility of trying to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic from the economic side. But before that happens, I would like to refer to what you said, that it seems that in the area of free robbery and free trade, the passage is becoming more and more active. This is particularly a problem if there are circles of government members involved in this, as we have seen from the press this weekend. I ask you to examine this and make sure that you do not abuse this opportunity. The third thing I would like to say is that I am glad that it was in its first sentences that the biggest countries were also facing major challenges, I would say, just like in 2008. So you can now face the real responsibility of all those who have contributed to overcoming, defending and restarting the economic crisis. In this, it is shocking, from what Congressman Vejkey said, that the government does not count on the EUR 5.7 billion of the European Union's cost support potential and the government's real resources to use it for this. Just because we need to get the right tools. Those that come face serious quality problems. Please make sure this doesn't happen. Thank you very much. [[Noise. Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-03-30-12	László László Keresztes is next. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, I think that, in this situation, especially as Parliament's meeting begins, we could approach this issue with a little less anger. We have heard news that is definitely positive. I would also like to thank everyone involved in bringing home Hungarians stranded abroad. It's definitely important. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I think that if a measure is successful, it deserves recognition. I also agree with Minister that this crisis will be quite shocking and that no one can really say exactly how long it will be, how long it will be and what kind of crisis it will be. It is clear that the protection of human life is the most important and the number one task, but it must now be borne in mind that this is quite serious, there is obviously going to be a much, much deeper crisis than before in 2008. So we agree that Hungary must also take serious measures and take deep measures in this regard. At the same time, what we have heard from the government is that in a few weeks, sometime at the end of April, it will be known specifically what economic measures the government is planning to take to protect the economy. We believe that these must be done immediately. My fellow Members have already mentioned that the most important task now is to protect jobs, and in this way the government has to do much more than otherwise good measures, and much more resources have to be used to save jobs. On the other hand, much more attention should be paid to supporting the unemployed. People who were already in a difficult situation may be in a rather tragic situation. Therefore, much more resources should be used for this too. Here, the state could have a specific task. There is a lot of work to be done in the field of elderly care, or there are a lot of tasks to be done in the municipalities, which are very demanding. The state should also play a role here in employing people who have become unemployed and thus reducing economic risks. I would not go into the debate now that it is new money or not new money that comes from the European Union, but what we should see is the scope of the government to use the resources that have already been granted. But I think that we can agree, my fellow Members, that it is more important now than any measure to control the coronal virus epidemic. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-30-14	Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai applied for a pre-meeting speech, on behalf of the Dialogue.
u2020-03-30-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, We are on the 19th day of the fight against the epidemic, and there is still no solution for the government to deal with the masses, the hundreds of thousands who lose their livelihood in the economic crisis following the outbreak of the coronal virus. The government is proclaiming how fast it reacts, how powerful it is to take measures, but if we look at the figures, it is at the back of the European countries, because Spain has adopted a package that contains a boost of 20 per cent of GDP, but Austria or Poland also spends 9-10 per cent of GDP to deal with immediate economic impacts, protect, protect jobs and ensure income security for people. Compared to this, the Government of Viktor Orbán has announced a half-percent economic package so far. [[István Hollik: It's not true!]] Unfortunately, it's true. I would be the happiest if my interrogating fellow Fidesz Member were right, but the fact is that he has mobilised a minimum of resources so far to make up for lost earnings. [[11.30]] This is particularly problematic because more than one third of Hungarians do not even have a monthly reserve. 36 percent said last summer that they could cover their expenses for up to a month, and 29 percent of them are the people, the families who have one or two months' reserves. Thus, the fact that income is now falling out of the system will lead to a very serious social crisis in addition to the health crisis in a few weeks. If we look at the measures taken by neighbouring countries, who are affected to a similar extent in the epidemic: Slovakia has just been adopted to replace 80% of the income lost by the state, in Romania 75 percent, in the Czech Republic last week, the state also pays 80 percent of the wages that would be paid to workers on forced leave. The Dialogue demands, above all, that a measure such as this should be introduced in Hungary, with an 80% increase in income, in order not to have to eliminate jobs, because the length of the crisis, how deep it will be, how serious it will be, depends on the fact that if the epidemiological measures are over, then the economic life can start again as it has been until now. So if jobs are lost, if jobs are lost, and Hungarian entrepreneurs cannot pay the wage costs, then this crisis will be incredibly deep and prolonged, which will only be the result of the delay of the Orbán government. The second step, if we manage to protect as many jobs as possible, is certain that tens, hundreds of thousands of people lose their jobs, and it is not enough for them not to have to pay contributions, for example, in the case of self-employed workers, in the case of jobs, where there is also a very unfair exclusion for many in terms of discharges, but it is also certain that for those who lose their jobs, a job search fee is not enough for a maximum of three months. This is also one of your unprecedented, inhumane economic policies by reducing the payout period for unemployment benefits from the previous nine months to three months. This must be lifted immediately. All economists say that this was an inhuman and counterproductive measure. Now it's time for you to back out of it. The third, who will not even be entitled to a job-seeking allowance, because we know that not everyone is insured, or has already had a low income, which has been replaced from the grey zone of the economy or from the informal economy, these opportunities have also ceased. So it is certain that many people now need to make up for their additional income. Therefore, the Dialogue proposes that we introduce a basic income for crisis management. The basic income of crisis management means that those whose income is less than HUF 100,000 must be compensated for this level, supplemented, and the income of families must be compensated for by an additional HUF 50,000 for each foster child. This is the minimum level necessary for the purchase of food and medicines. So I really ask the Orbán Government and my fellow Members of the Fidesz-KDNP, who are sitting here, very nicely, to support the idea of the Dialogue to create income security for everyone in this crisis, because without it, suffering will be more extensive, deeper and stronger than necessary. The government has no more important task than to prevent or reduce the suffering of people, families. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-30-16	State Secretary Csaba Dömötör will answer.
u2020-03-30-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If we are talking about the effects of the epidemic, the protection of people's lives is the primary priority, but we cannot leave without saying anything, and I agree with you, with the economic consequences, even because the economic effects of the epidemic have arrived in Hungary together with the virus; not only in Hungary, but also in all European countries. Well, when you say nothing happened, it just doesn't stand the test of reality, and the only reason I speak so softly is because we're in this situation. Everyone knows that action had to be taken, and the government has already taken a number of measures. So if you didn't do it, then allow me to tell you the most important things. We suspended the repayment of credit contracts concluded before 18 March. You can figure out what percentage of GDP this means, because it certainly doesn't mean as much as you say. The loan also covers financial leasing contracts and credit contracts. For consumption loans, the APR shall not exceed the base rate plus 5%. Specific steps have been taken in the sectors most hit. This includes tourism, catering, culture and passenger transport. In these sectors, employers' contributions are entirely released by the government and employees only have to pay a minimum of health insurance contributions. 81 thousand small businesses with 81,000 kata do not have to pay the flat-rate tax, which is a big help. That's what you're saying, nothing. Perhaps there is full agreement in this House that the government has suspended evictions and tax executions, and that, to mention a decision involving family support, the government will extend the rights of children, children and children until after the end of the emergency. This is only the first wave of measures, honourable Member, more is coming, you can be sure of that. If we are talking about jobs, I agree that this is one of the most important issues. But if I look at your proposals and the government's decisions, we see a significant difference in attitude. The opposition seems to be settling in for a period of mass unemployment. Now there is no doubt that the epidemic is a huge threat to jobs, but we do not want to see it as a finished fact, and we want to avoid losing jobs. And the proposals proposed by the left would perpetuate unemployment, turn back to a period in which it was better worth living on aid instead of work, even if it was not called basic income at the time. On the other hand, we want a work-based society, this policy has enabled Hungary to create more than 800 000 new jobs in recent years, as opposed to the previous 12 percent unemployment rate. With regard to the extension of the emergency and the attitude of the opposition, it is sad, as I look at it, that this matter is also being watched through party political glasses, even though if these party political glasses were taken off, they could see at least two things. One is that other EU countries have taken similar decisions and extraordinary measures, and in places where there are equally fierce debates between opposition parties and government parties, for example, in Spain, the opposition has supported extraordinary measures. On the other hand, you would see that Hungary, whose service we have sworn to serve, now needs cooperation. And when opposition parties now make no matter which opposition party, government-attacking phone calls in many parts of the country, that's not what it's about. Rather, it proves a narrow party policy approach, that it has not actually assessed the seriousness and severity of the situation. So it is worth asking yourself, asking the question, whether now is the time for this type of attack. Wouldn't it be appropriate to put the political axes down for a few days and see how they can help protect against the epidemic? They must not respond to this now, perhaps not to us, but to their own voters, who, I think, want us to overcome the epidemic as soon as possible, and to return to normal life in Hungary. I think that opposition parties still have every opportunity to participate in the cooperation, the door is open, it is not too late to enter it. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-30-18	It is now time for the group leader of the LMP, Mr Lóránt Keresztes. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would also like to start my speech here today by thanking everyone who works in the first line every day to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people. However, I would like to thank you for many, many good examples that we have seen in recent years. We see that many individuals, organisations, businesses and companies have demonstrated that they see the need for social solidarity in these difficult times, the need for cooperation and cooperation, and we can see many examples of how they can, whether an economic enterprise or, say, a group of individuals, pay attention to this and help those who need it according to their options. Well, this social cooperation, this cooperation, which Mr Dömötör also spoke about, would also be greatly needed in the Hungarian Parliament. And I think that we should be honest about this, and we should make it clear how this is possible and who has the real intention. I believe that there is an intention on the part of opposition representatives here. There is full agreement, and we have already talked about this before the agenda, that we are facing an extremely difficult situation, and we cannot yet say exactly how deep this crisis is going to be. [[11.40]] It is also very clear, and in this regard, no opposition party has ever denied the government that dealing with this situation requires extraordinary measures. So it is simply necessary, unlike in times of peace, to have a special legal order in place, and the government is given the legal opportunity to react quickly to this situation. In Hungarian, the opposition agreed that there is a need for government on the basis of the regulation. But we also made it clear, and we have already said in the first discussions on this, that this cannot be without limits, so there must also be a time limit, and certain guarantees must be put in place. By the way, during the first discussions, in the seven-party negotiations, there seemed to be some kind of consensus, and then there was some interesting, strange political intention on the part of the government to bring the party's political battle to its peak in this period. I also think that it should be clear that these time constraints are not necessary, and that these guarantees are not necessary in connection with the introduction of a special legal order, because opposition factions would be so sensitive, but are necessary because the situation is very serious. When the nation is facing such a serious situation, there is a real need for guarantees, then there is a real need for the government that is exercising power to speak to them and to address them, and to give guarantees to those who do not sympathize with it, who do not trust in it. In English, opposition representatives should also be able to be addressed by a government, a prime minister working responsibly in this difficult situation, and to seek a broad consensus. We know that this situation will require very, very tough, much stricter measures than it currently is. On the weekend, the government introduced a curfew. We know that this will probably also need to be tightened up in the next period. This crisis is going to require a lot of measures that will upset our current lives, and our freedom, which we are all used to, and which has suffered a little bit in the last few weeks, will also be severely limited. To be able to accept these strict measures regardless of party standing, we need these guarantees, we need the limits, and you need to understand this, my honourable members of the government and honourable members of the government. It is not because of the opposition that we need these guarantees, but because of the confidence and the wide range of social peace that we need to understand and accept these strict measures and then the extremely serious effects of the crisis, that is what makes these certain guarantees necessary. The opposition is not fighting for itself, but for the people to whom this is important, so that we can really not just talk about this kind of political reconciliation and truce, but that this can be achieved. This is extremely important. Ladies and gentlemen, You argued in the debate that it is not possible to set a time limit for this special legal order, because you are indeed right in that, we do not know what situation we will face in three months' time, and the Hungarian Parliament will be able to operate, and the Hungarian Parliament will be in a position to meet and make a decision. But there is an amendment before the Parliament that also answers this problem that you have raised. We have put forward a proposal that uses a 90-day time limit, which would give the government a 90-day time limit on this special legal order, regulation governance, but also the possibility that if the Parliament could not make a decision after 90 days, it could not prolong it if objective factors existed, then the government's powers of action would not cease, and this could continue for another 30-30 days. Fellow Members! I think that there is an extremely important Parliament meeting today. On the one hand, it is necessary to adopt very important measures that we all know, and a large part of which there is a complete consensus on the part of all the factions. Now you have the opportunity, you have the opportunity to adopt this amendment, and we can end today's debate and vote so that the national consensus on the importance of which every faction has spoken for a week can indeed develop in relation to measures directly affecting defence. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-30-20	Mr. Balázs Orbán has the floor.
u2020-03-30-21	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, You spent most of the five minutes at your disposal explaining the inexplicable reasons why opposition parties didn't support you last week. [[Interviews from the ranks of Fidesz, among them: Yes!]] a derogation from house rules for the adoption of this important anti-coronal virus law. If you'll excuse me, I'd rather start with the important thing. Since last week's meeting, many important decisions have been made. You mentioned these very briefly. The most important is the imposition of a curfew restriction, under which residence can only be left for work or basic needs, a distance of one and a half meters should be maintained in public places, and those over 65 can only visit the most important and most frequently visited shops between 9 and 12 o'clock. These restrictive measures apply to all, and compliance with them is monitored by the police. I would also like to use this opportunity to thank everyone who has taken note of these measures, who is in favour of these measures, and to see that the fight against the epidemic requires such difficult solutions, and that everyone's support and voluntary enforcement are needed in order to reduce the rate of spread of the epidemic. I think the most important purpose of our presence here today is to record this, and in this matter we thank all speakers for their words of support, if any. In the larger part of your speech, however, you interpreted last week's political events. The government's position here is absolutely clear from day one, from 11 March, when the emergency was announced. This is a special situation that requires a special legal status. The Fundamental Law sets out the conditions under which this should be introduced in the event of a specific legal situation, particularly such a fundamental blow. Under these conditions, the government may adopt provisions other than those of the law, but their scope will expire in 15 days, unless the Parliament extends the scope of these provisions, which means, in political terms, a confirmation. So, in legal terms, we are talking about an extension act, and in political terms, we are talking about a strengthening act. Obviously, this is also ordered by the Fundamental Law, because this is a special and difficult situation in which a unity beyond party politics and logic is needed, and to ensure this unity or to demonstrate this unity, the supreme body of popular representation, the Parliament, is entitled and able. Therefore, we have tabled a bill that will carry out this confirmatory political act, and that will also carry out the act on the extension of the scope. The adoption of this bill last week would have required four fifths support under the house rules. This four-fifth support has failed because you have unitedly rejected the support of this bill on the opposition side. Two things come from this: you do not give your political consent to measures to control the epidemic, nor do you give your legal support to the extension of the measures already adopted. There's no other way to explain this. That's what this thing means politically and legally. So if you had not spoken for five minutes on this issue, but for five hours, this would have been the end of the opposition's failure to support the measures needed to combat the epidemic. There's no other way to explain this. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You're making politics out of this too!]] So we would like to ask you very strongly and, by the way, I think that in Hungarian society there is unity in this, so there is unity behind the measures against the epidemic, and there is unity in the fact that the opposition acted irresponsiblely in last week's vote, but it is fortunate that history gives the opposition the opportunity to change their mind and to correct last week's mistake, I would like to ask you all opposition representatives today to correct their mistake last week. [[Zoltán Balczó: We ask all pro-government parties not to stick to the unlimited mandate!]] and support the bill on the control of the coronal virus. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-30-22	Now it's time for Agnes Vadai, on behalf of DK. I give you the floor.
u2020-03-30-23	Thank you very much. Dear House, For a minute there, I thought the corona virus epidemic would unite us. [[Rumors from the pro-government ranks. Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's the Gyurcsány!]] Because the virus does not choose, it can knock down Fidesz and DK, poor and rich, believers or atheists, anyone, any Hungarian, European or living on any continent. It was a vain fantasy to think that even a government like yours could be responsible for the Hungarians, without politicisation. I was wrong. Whatever happens, you're party politics, you're lying, you're embarrassing. Let me be clear, in this country, the last week should have been about how all doctors, nurses, health workers would have adequate protective equipment. [[11.50]] The last week should have been about how the Hungarian epidemic protection will convert to mass testing. It should have been about the Hungarian government telling us what steps it is taking to protect jobs and how it will pay the wages of those who have lost their jobs. And what was it about compared to this? That the ugly opposition does not want to give the full power to poor Viktor Orbán [[Interview from the benches of the governing parties:]] that we will have to go to school, that we will have to repay the loans, and that is all the opposition's fault. [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]] And here I would like to quote State Secretary Zoltán Kovács: the irresponsible behaviour of the opposition is virtually an obstacle to effective defence. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] What are we, ladies and gentlemen, impeding, from the House of the Government? What's with all the lies? The two-thirds Orbán government, which, in recent years, has pushed through this House in any subject, at any time, within hours, is now powerless because of the opposition? Really? Is that really what they're saying? Well, it's pretty amazing. At the latest on Friday, it became clear to everyone that you lied to the Hungarians' eyes, because you didn't have to go to school, did you, you didn't have to pay the loan, you could take the necessary measures, you could even order the curfew. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Slipping for a week...]] And you knew it, and you knew it all along. [[Complaining from the benches of the governing parties: That is not true...]] Wake up! There is a pandemic and Hungarians are dying! Don't fight us, don't campaign against the opposition with your Facebook, verbal death squadrons, but fight the epidemic and do their job, as we do what we can. [[Máté Kocsis: Shame!]] The Democratic Coalition has proposed almost 60 proposals to take action. Some of these were accepted, but only after a certain period of time, because at first they were swept off, such as school affairs. We will support you in everything that serves the health of Hungarians and the livelihood of Hungarians. [[Dr. Pál Völner: We can't see him!]] But do your job. For example, take responsibility first. Take responsibility for sick GPs and medical staff, because you didn't give them masks and proper protective equipment, while you lied to us every day that you had enough of everything. Then please inform us why so little is being tested in Hungary, Europe, one of the least. Butcher Lőrinc hasn't made his buddy's company yet? Or do you think that if they test little, there will be fewer patients? [[Máté Kocsis: Shame on you!]] Let me ask you, fellow Members, what is this mess about tests? [[Máté Kocsis: Shame on you!]] We need order and mass testing. And then, if you have answered these questions, it is very important to know what the government is planning to do in order to protect jobs and replace the already lost wages. This has been achieved in the Czech Republic and Romania, and even in Bulgaria, the government has decided to take over 60% of wages in order to keep jobs at risk as a result of a coronal epidemic. What about you? What do you guys do to make up for lost wages? Nothing, at least we've never heard of it before. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Now is the time to shout!]] And I think it's a shame. Dear House, It is possible to make prime minister PR videos about the fact that no Hungarians are alone in this world. But I would like to ask what will happen to those who have lost their jobs, who do not already have savings and resources. They feel terribly abandoned, honourable Members. It is therefore necessary for this House to adopt a large and strong social and economic package. We'll be partners in this. [[Dr. Pál Völner: You left millions of people on the side of the road...]] But in the meantime, if we can ask you, and we can only ask you for one, just one, then our request would be to double the salary of health workers. Doctors, nurses, assistants, paramedics, or hospital cleaners are not to be let down now. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They've been plotting them for ten years... [[The president's gonna turn off the congressman's mic.]] Make sure they double their salary. Thank you, Mr. President, with deep respect. [[A rare applause from the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2020-03-30-24	Csaba Dömötör is coming.
u2020-03-30-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and You mentioned a number of questions. I'd like to respond in a row. Firstly, about Hungarian democracy. The threat to dictatorship as a tactical tool on the left is practically the same age as the Democratic Charter on the change of regime, 2002. And the fact is that what you do is that you constantly encourage a loss of confidence in Hungarian public life, and then you refuse to cooperate on the basis of this lack of trust. Right now, in a specific case, what you've been saying, at least the first part, is an explanation for that. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: It was a statement of facts!]] 'Cause last week, they didn't vote for an extension of emergency measures. If they had voted for it, we wouldn't have lost a week. Everything else, honourable Member, is an explanation. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] The question of medical wages. [[Interviews from Jobbik benches, among others: Ten years ago... Dr. Brenner Koloman: Liar! It's the meanest!]] You have seen in recent years that the government is committed to wage increases, and this applies not only to health care but also to all sectors. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in these weeks, the focus is on defence, the fight against the epidemic, not wage competition. And by the way, you, the left, have already been given the opportunity to bring about changes in health care, and we know what this meant: they wanted to make it pay; 600 billion forints were withdrawn; 16,000 active beds have been dismantled. And they put 6,000 workers on the street; those who could stay took a month's wages from them. We remember that. [[Interruption from the benches of the governing parties.]] On the other hand, the current government spends 700 billion more on health care. The average salary of specialists has increased by 2.5 times since 2010 and the nursing wage increase programme until 2022 is ongoing. But I would like to stress that the government is extremely committed to further wage increases. When we talk about economic issues, I would also like to say to you that a number of decisions have been taken: suspension of loan repayments; introduction of a limit on consumer loans; release of contributions in the most troubled sectors; remission of a flat-rate tax for small businesses in Katás; suspension of evictions; suspension of tax executions; extension of children's, children's rights. This is what you say nothing; but once again, although important decisions have been made, further decisions will be made. With regard to the issue of health protective equipment, I would like to say that since we are in a logistically semi-war situation, it is important to clarify what sets the number of protective equipment needed. Firstly, the size of stocks; secondly, the number of diseases; thirdly, the number of health professionals at the place where it is needed. That's how you decide on deliveries. The government is also trying to provide this from internal sources, and as Minister for Foreign Affairs has spoken about it in recent minutes, foreign deliveries are also ongoing. Many planes have already come full of protective equipment, and many will continue to do so. Today, we are voting to extend the emergency situation and to extend the measures taken during it. I would like to say once again that this is necessary because we need to ensure the ability to decide, the opportunity to act quickly and effectively. A similar measure is in place in most EU countries. We have seen in recent days that opposition parties have tried to explain in various ways why they prevented decision-making last week. However, we would like to make it clear once again that, contrary to the allegations, the exceptional measures concern combating, preventing, eliminating and eliminating harmful economic consequences. There is no time limit in this situation because there is no man, not only here in this House, but there is no man among specialists, among specialists, who can tell us how many months of struggle we have to settle down. So, no matter how the left-wing parties voted last week [[Z. Carpathian intervention by Daniel.]] It's not too late to join today's anti-epidemic cooperation. Of course, it also needs to put aside party political considerations and negative feelings for government parties for at least the most difficult days. Now I am not saying that they should love the government, not only because we are far from it, but also because I think that the opposition has nothing to do with democracy. But I would suggest that, at least in the days that have been sharpened, they show that the country's interests are ahead of their party policy goals. [[Interview from Jobbik's benches: Not with you!]] We wish you the wisdom of this decision. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Today's vote will tell us what you've come up with. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Brenner Koloman: Dr. Agnes Vadai's intervention.]]
u2020-03-30-26	Mr. Bertalan Tóth Group Leader, on behalf of the MSZP. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The first word is thanks. And now it is not a thank-you to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but to the Hungarian society and the Hungarian people for their discipline, for their patience and for the effort that almost all of us are making to slow down the spread of the coronal virus epidemic, and in order to protect each other, to pay attention to each other. [[12.00]] And this requires trust, solidarity and solidarity. But what you are doing, fellow pro-government Members, is undermining these concepts, questioning these concepts, questioning these forms of behaviour. After all, it was claimed that the opposition had not contributed to the extension of the emergency, and it turned out that the emergency still exists, and we agree with that. They claimed that the government couldn't act, compared to that, the chief of staff closed the borders on their own, closed the schools, took the necessary measures, didn't need four-fifths, didn't need two-thirds, but not even the prime minister. You have launched the lie factory that you have done on the basis of the proposals of your informal advisors in the background, but I would like to add once again: the opposition is still willing to reach a consensus. We asked you for nothing else, we asked you for a gesture to have a deadline in this provision, whether it can be extended in electronic form, because it will create the confidence of opposition voters. And even your polling company has said that more than 40 percent wouldn't give you unlimited authority. Why can't you make a hundred out of 60:40? Why don't you do that gesture? And if you call us to change our minds, I'm asking you to change your mind. We have tabled the amendment that you can change your mind by voting for, and we will vote for this mandate. Please pay attention to this. The government regulations that you refer to, we have supported one by one, and we have agreed on the content of them, because there have been a number of proposals that we have proposed, suspension of loan repayments, discounts on contributions, and I might add. We agree with them. If these government orders had been brought in, we would have extended them immediately, but we can't give the government unlimited powers in time. Nor does it strengthen confidence, ladies and gentlemen, that the mayors who control the defence at local level do not receive adequate information, must be informed from television, and that the additional tasks they perform will not receive any more support, no more money. Why is it that, without a government and without Viktor Orbán, NGOs sew masks, restaurants deliver food to hospital workers, municipalities buy test machines, and municipalities give emergency aid to unemployed workers? You can see that in this country we have the ability to cooperate, and we have that skill. Vote for our amendment, put in place a long deadline that can be extended and restore confidence. Once again, I would like to stress that I am very confident that the following measures will be of real help to workers, because thousands, tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of people lose their jobs can intervene in the process that shows that some of their fellow parties or backups couldn't stay on their backs, they couldn't get out of their skin, because the protective equipment that you are bringing into the country is going to some sort of Fidesz business. It is not the task of a county general meeting president to send offers from private companies to municipalities. Your job would be to deliver these equipment free of charge to the Hungarian people. So the profiteering or, as you said, Mr. Secretary, free robbery, please suspend it. Please distance yourselves from these background people, from these fellow politicians. Ladies and gentlemen, We socialist representatives are also financially, actively doing our part in this fight. We can count on each other, because society has humanity. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] But it doesn't seem to be in many fideses. Let's take care of each other. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-30-28	Secretary Bence Rétvári responds. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff and Dear Enemies, There's an epidemic, and it's not a campaign. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches.]] The government has declared an emergency because of the virus, not a campaign period. And you operate as the opposition during the campaign period. In everything here in Parliament, they try to find some reason to repeatedly, as always since 1998, call for dictatorship if there is a Fidesz and Christian Democratic government in Hungary. Even those former party presidents who are not directly under the direction of Ferenc Gyurcsány, Gábor Vona and András Schiffer criticize the Hungarian opposition that at this moment they could not take the side of the Hungarian people and could not accept an otherwise limited mandate. Because the authority is to cover only those areas of government that are obviously related to the fight against the virus epidemic, and its temporal scope is likely to last as long as the virus has to be dealt with. 'Cause it's actually in this bill, and you know it, that's number two. § (2) can be read. This is a limited mandate, both in time and in length. You're really just doing what you've always been doing since 98, trying to campaign in something, screaming dictatorship and dictatorship in something, honourable Member. Even their own press, even the Hungarian newspapers, were able to do last week that they appeared with the same front page on the same day, asking everyone to stay at home. Even the opposition press is ahead, the opposition's former party presidents are ahead of you here in Parliament, who did not vote for this Crown Virus Act at the order of Ferenc Gyurcsány, and they did not allow us to vote on it at all last week. Because, honourable Member, you know very well that speed counts for a great deal. If we look at Hungary's previous measures, when we have suspended school teaching in classrooms, if we count the period from the first patients, we see that we have suspended after 39 patients after 12 days, while Austira has been suspended after 21 days and 4 dead, Italy after 34 days and nearly 4,000 infected, Spain after 41 days and nearly 3,000 infected, and I could say: Sweden 47 days, Germany 49 days, France 52 days. Because speed matters a great deal. This one week would have made an enormous difference. On the one hand, you say that the government should adopt measures first, and when the government asks Parliament to extend the emergency from here to have the power to take or maintain these measures quickly, they will not do so. They speak exactly the opposite and vote in the opposite way here in Parliament, honourable Member. And this is not the first time you have let the Hungarians down. I'd just like to watch this century, not the last century. On December 5, 2004, they failed the nation. In 2008, at the time of the economic crisis, they say big speeches about what social measures should be taken, but then Zsuzsa Ferge, your own domestic sociologist, said that in 2008 Hungary was the only state affected by the crisis, which didn't cross anything, nothing at all, a single straw in order for something to happen to the obvious losers of the crisis. [[Interviews from the ranks of the MSZP, including Lajos Korózs: Not true!]] There's never been a country like this before. At least everywhere, unemployment or relief or something else has been extended. As a result, we had a particularly high risk for the poor, because you failed the Hungarians in 2008 and failed the Hungarians during the economic crisis, which is what Zsuzsa Ferge said about you. In 2015, Hungarians were abandoned in the immigration crisis, and now, in 2020, they were unable to vote for the extension of the emergency situation in the Crown Virus situation here in Parliament. This is the fourth failure of the nation if I look at the last few years, honourable Member. So I'm asking you to continue to support the government's actions. Even when some WHO officials are asked in their own paper, 168 Hours and the like, even they say in Hungary that what Hungary is doing is supported, they believe that the measures adopted in Hungary are suitable for detecting cases and dealing with the coronal virus situation. This has been confirmed by the WHO, only to do so, honourable Member, it would have been necessary for you not to cause a week's delay in order to protect the Hungarian people. Fortunately, so far we were among the first to take action, we regret that the Hungarian opposition, the Hungarian left, failed the Hungarian nation for the fourth time. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-30	Now it's time for Daniel Z. Carpathian on Jobbik's side. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-31	Mr President, Dear House, The first word is thanks to those who carry this country on their backs, especially those who work in the front line. Beyond health workers, I think of everyone involved in active defense. [[12.10]] And I feel that, regardless of the parties, theisms and attitudes, everyone should be grateful for the day-to-day work of these fellow citizens. Mr Secretary of State has just spoken of delays in the fact that, since the opposition has not given full mandate, they have been subjected to huge delays for many years, if any. About what, Mr. Secretary? Did you have to open the schools again? You didn't have to, did you? Should a loan be repaid since last week, Mr. Secretary? You don't have to do that, do you? In fact, they were able to impose a curfew, and it will be strange for me to say that it is possible to go to a hairdresser and manicurist, so this restriction was made within relative limits. But what we need to see is that Mrs Müller Cecília, by virtue of her right under the Eu-Law, could without further ado issue the normative decision which, together with the action of Minister of the Interior of Sándor Pintér, could provide for both border and school closure. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is that a reason you didn't vote for him?]] So what you've said simply doesn't stand the test of truth and reality. I completely agree with Csaba Dömötör that human life comes first. However, I must add that we have 36 percent of our fellow Hungarians, who do not have a reserve of one month or less. Secretary of State, you cannot hide behind your reference to human lives, otherwise legitimate, and tell them to wait for these people to resolve their situation. No! It would be a dog's duty together to start solving these two problems in parallel. You can't justify and no one can explain why you're lining up in the event of a parallel urge to act. Here, however, a Hungarian employment protection fund must start to compensate for the wages of our countrymen who are unable to pay now due to the crisis and the epidemic, and cannot earn income. Jobbik proposes three legs for a job security fund. On the one hand, within the budget, I mean not only investments in building pyramids, but also in the area of numerous government investments and reserves. On the other hand, you must now sit down with the most capitalised companies operating on the Hungarian market and capitalise on the job protection fund with them. How these payments will then be recovered in the form of a tax benefit, a contribution allowance, an infrastructure discount is a question of negotiation, and these negotiations must also be conducted. Thirdly, if any source is expected from international space, it should also be grouped here. We do not expect you, as Japan does, to make a family of 880 thousand forints per family, equivalent to 880,000 forints. We do not expect what has become possible in welfare farms or in the US to transfer $2,400 plus $500 per child so that families in difficulty can handle this situation. That's not what we're looking for. Staying absolutely on the ground of reality, we would like to achieve to the average wage level that 80% of all Hungarian people's income so far is guaranteed to continue to reach their account. And we are asking for all this because one third of our countrymen do not have almost any reserve, and we do not want to see children in Hungary in a position where they cannot be supported by their own families. We don't want to see future insurrections, even evictions many years later, because of the trouble we're in. And what we need to see is that if this was possible in the Czech Republic, if it was possible to do so in Slovakia yesterday's announcement, if this replacement level in Romania is 75 percent in some cases, in Bulgaria 60, in Poland 50, then we cannot accept that Hungary is zero. Okay, I'm in favour of a contribution allowance. I understand, I support, we have proposed a moratorium on loan repayment, we support every cosmetic or more serious step, but all of this does not replace the loss of income. And we do not want to see the masses in need of social transfers, but we want to see Hungarian compatriots who can preserve their jobs with flexible labour market changes, and, if appropriate, in six months' time, in a year's time, they will be able to return to their original lives. This is why we demand the Hungarian employment protection fund in order to ensure that workers and professionals from all sectors in Hungary are not out of the question, because all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians and that the Hungarian future can now be established. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Not with the crisis gone. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-30-32	I give the floor to Secretary of State Csaba Dömötör. [[The name of Csaba Dömötör appears on the display board. Dr. Balázs Orbán is rising to speak.]]
u2020-03-30-33	[[Without sound:]] Mr. President, I'm sorry. Mr. President, I'm sorry. [[Mr Pál Völner: Mr President, you indicated that State Secretary Balázs Orbán would respond. The name of Dr. Balázs Orbán appears on the display.]] Mr President, thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to start with your comment on the legal details, because the fact is that, Mr President, you still do not understand the rules. He still does not understand the legal situation, and we must first clarify that, because without it we cannot start talking about economic protection measures. The legal situation is that all the measures that we have taken so far, all the measures that the Government has taken so far, will expire 15 days after the date of their adoption. So it is not just a matter of dissipating a misunderstanding in all opposition representatives that the measures taken on 11 and 12 March will expire if the law on the protection of the Crown Virus is not supported by Parliament, but, Congressman, by all measures! Just not at the same time, but shifted, on the 15th day of the decision. So when you say you support the suspension of implementation [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] the suspension of evictions, the reduction of contributions, and then, during the afternoon, you will not vote in favour of the law on protection against the Crown Virus, then you are not telling the truth. Because in order to support the suspension of executions, to support the suspension of evictions, to support economic measures, to support decisions to extend family support, Parliament must adopt the Law on the Protection of Crown Virus under the Fundamental Law. Any Member of Parliament who does not support this is simply saying no to all the measures that the government has taken so far! [[Dr. Wind Bernadett keeps interrupting.]] The consequences of this, the date on which the deadline expires, try to explain to the Hungarian families that they should be happy that the eviction moratorium will expire not today, but in three days! So this is the legal situation, it's quite clear. What you claim is legal nonsense, it doesn't cover reality. There is also an economic debate between the two political sides. It is quite clear that we are thinking about targeted assistance. So, on the one hand, we want to support as many jobs as possible, as few economic sectors as possible to stop, and, on the other hand, that if someone is in trouble, we would also like to provide them with the help they receive in a targeted way. What you are proposing, along with other left-wing opposition parties, the vast majority of those proposals are not targeted proposals. My apologies, I do not want to be personally assisted by the Hungarian Parliament, because my work is not yet threatened by the protection of the Crown Virus. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: That's why I said that if you paid attention, you would pay an average wage.]] And I also suggest that we not help your family in this crisis, because your family is not threatened by the protection against the coronal virus. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Average wage; at least listen. Mr. President, you can't do this.]] Let's help those who get into trouble. The idea of unconditional basic income for all is not targeted support. Therefore, that should not apply. The second part: since 2010, the government has followed a principle that has led unemployment down from 12 percent to 3 percent, with an economic growth of 5 percent. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] The whole point of this principle is to give people jobs instead of aid. Because there's a corona virus that we all have to defend ourselves against right now, there's no point in throwing this principle out the window, which we've been able to use in the last ten years after the collapse to fix the country. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Tell this to a guide or a language teacher. Tell them.]] So we are proposing that we not throw this principle out of the window, with the help of which we have been able to fix the country in such difficult situations and in previous difficult situations. All your suggestions I've written today were to throw this principle out the window. We don't support that. And in the end, if I may, I would like to use an atypical method, as I would not be speaking to you, but to the supporters and voters of the Jobbik faction and the Jobbik party. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] The fact is that they are the voters who disagree with us, with whom we have debates, who criticize us. [[12.20]] We are doing everything we can on this side to earn the support of your voters. But this is all irrelevant, because we are talking about the protection against the corona virus, and in this defence situation, I would like to ask every voter to influence his parliamentary representative so that he does not interfere with defence on party policy logic, but supports the measures. Let us show that what has succeeded in other countries is also possible in Spain, Austria, France, Britain and Hungary. Thank you for your confidence in us. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State. I salute my fellow Members. Mr. Miklós Soltész, Member of the Christian Democratic People's Party, also spoke before the agenda. You have the floor, Congressman, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-30-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In conjunction with the idea of the Secretary of State, I would like to confirm that since the outbreak of the Crown Virus epidemic, the overwhelming majority of the country has, indeed, supported the adoption of a law on the protection of the Crown Virus in a uniform way, and, on the other hand, the four fronts that we are undertaking together with the participants in the military, police area, but for the sake of the weaker ones, I would add here to László Varju or Bence of Tordai that it is also in the health and economic area. So what you said in your speech before the agenda today is regrettable, because you did not understand the speech made last week by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. The Christian Democratic People's Party is particularly supportive of the suspension of the capital and interest payment obligations of loans taken up by private individuals and businesses by 18 March, until the end of the year, and the extension of short-term business loans until 30 June. We strongly support the fact that employers do not have to pay contributions in certain areas: catering, entertainment, sport and cultural services. And in recent economic steps, we strongly support evictions, seizures, and the suspension of tax executions, outstanding debts and the withdrawal of all these until the end of an emergency. We consider the extension of the rights of children, children and children in an emergency to be particularly important, keeping mothers in their current status. We also see, unfortunately, in today's debate, that the opposition is interested in nothing but defying the actions and the will of their constituents who want to do something quite different from what they say, believe in austerity, their politicians want to make political capital out of it, and create the opposite instead of unity. Unfortunately, many even lie enormously in the media or here in the parliamentary debates. They are facing their own voters, the whole country, as has already been said in recent debates. It is worth emphasising that because they are all kinds of accusations against the government, they concern the majority of Parliament's fractions, that human life is the most important thing in this situation, and if we think about it, then the steps that the Hungarian government has taken so far with the help of many people, then we are doing better in this huge struggle than many countries. But we also need to know, and again, it is worth hearing from a good part of the opposition that the decisions made so far leave 3600 billion forints to the people. It's a huge amount of money. Prime Minister also announced that further economic action would obviously take place. Obviously, it is clear that measures are designed to protect jobs and clearly serve to ensure that aid is not the main aspect again, but to safeguard help and jobs. In addition, on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, we would like to thank those involved in the public service, not only health care workers, doctors and nurses, but also many people who maintain water, gas or any other services, transport and many things, all those who are in the shops, and who have endured a seizure that may not have had a legitimate fit in the last few weeks or months. And here I would also like to thank you for humanitarian aid, because individual offerers have understood that it is not necessary now to take different objects to charitable organisations, but rather to support the work of charitable organisations either through the line of the National Alliance or through the account number of the National Alliance. Thank you for understanding that both financial and material offerings are received by the charitable organisations and can be delivered to many places. And thank you for all the voluntary organizational help the country has experienced over the past few weeks and months. I think that's what we need, not what the opposition is doing, the total disintegration. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-36	Thank you very much, Congressman, Secretary of State. Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, will respond to what has been said on behalf of the Government.
u2020-03-30-37	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, we are living here in Europe and around the world, which is not only extraordinary because of the rule of law, but we can really see the difficulties faced by countries with a better history, which are richer than us, and some of them are unable to overcome these difficulties in the spread of the epidemic. In Belgium, too, many said that they had taken action too late, and it was too late when the regulations were made, because there were hundreds of patients already. In France a few days ago, an emergency doctor said that they didn't have the right tools in French health care, they lack protective clothing, and they feel like they're going into battle without a weapon. But we can see these not only in France or the Benelux countries, but also elsewhere. Chris Hopson, president of the local hospital association in Britain, London, said that it would be a matter of weeks before the health care system there could withstand the flooding of the coronal virus patients, and it could collapse. They can't keep up with the lightning virus, and he said they were very miscalculated when they were preparing for the outbreak. It is sad that not only they, but also the European Health Agency, have miscalculated themselves. When Hungary had already taken measures at the end of January and at the beginning of February, they said that mass spread in Europe was unlikely. It's a good thing we didn't listen to them. We listened to common sense. In Romania, almost one in every six patients with coronal viral disease are healthcare workers, and this is one of the big problems. According to the head of the Federal Health Agency in Switzerland, Swiss hospitals will soon collapse if the coronal virus continues to spread in the same way. Sweden has become one of the most infected countries, even though it is one of the most well-being societies, and we also see that in one of the richest areas in the world, New York City, the mayor says that they can run out of gloves, masks and other hospital equipment in a week. So the time has come for cooperation everywhere, and in all other countries, the same challenges are being faced. It has been a very important success over the last few days, this weekend, that the planes are constantly arriving, well, not from Brussels and not from support, but from the east, with 200 respirators, 1.7 Special mask, 7 million surgical masks, 200,000 protective suits. So there is a huge amount of equipment coming in, which Hungary has managed to obtain, while we continue to receive criticisms of the rule of law from Brussels. Here, fortunately, we managed to achieve these. So this also shows how much cooperation is needed here, which would be good if we could say in Parliament that there is a consensus here too, but unfortunately we do not see this on the part of the opposition parties. However, speed is very important, and Hungary has been able to make good progress in this period, since, if you look at the time when the individual measures were taken compared to the first death: the emergency was declared in Hungary four days before the first death, while, let's say, in Italy, only 16 days after the first death. The decision to suspend school teaching was made one day after the first death, in Austria 5 days after the first death, in Sweden 7 days and only for universities and 12 days later in Italy. [[12.30]] In Hungary, the closure of clubs and cultural institutions took place 2 days after the first death, in Slovenia with the same speed as in Hungary, but in Poland 3 days after that, in Austria 5 days after that, in Italy 15 days after that. The ban on events took place in Hungary 4 days before the first death, while, let's say, in Italy 15 days after the first death. In Hungary, the border closure was announced 2 days after the first death, in Poland 3 days, in Austria 8 days, in Sweden 8 days after the first death. So so far, our speed has been an important advantage, and therefore the attempt by the opposition to explain why it slowed down so that the Parliament could continue to grant the mandate to the government is pathetic. But what we can see is that although the parliamentary opposition is not, many of the companies and individuals have moved. The MKB Bank provided a billion forints for the protection against the Crown Virus, and the CIB Group, the Savings Bank, also made offerings. Telecommunications companies provide 10, 15 or 100 gigabytes plus data traffic, as this is how many people can work or learn from home. The Béres drops were also sent to St. Laszlo's Hospital this weekend, precisely to protect the health of health workers. The Labdarugo Association, the HospitalSuli Foundation, Bethesda Children's Hospital, the Chinese construction bank or even the state-owned companies with changed working skills were all in battle, for example, and many others were the Maltese and others were sewing washable masks. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] I think this collaboration is very visible in society. It would have been nice if it had been in politics. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-38	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr Erik Bánki, President of the Commission, Fidesz Group, also spoke before the agenda.
u2020-03-30-39	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Since the beginning of the coronal virus epidemic, the government, in cooperation with the operational tribe, has introduced a number of health and economic measures in Hungary, whose primary and most important objective is to protect people. The faction welcomes the government's decisions to protect the results of the Hungarian economy so far and to work on the economic recovery as soon as possible. As part of this last week, the government decided on six new economic protection measures, the main aim of which is to ensure that as many Hungarians as possible can keep their jobs. And if you lose your job, in that case, it is our job to create new jobs as soon as possible, where people can find a job and get back to work. With regard to the measures introduced: an additional 81 480 small business operators will be exempted from the obligation to pay the cadastral tax until 30 June. These include hairdressing, beauty care, painting, glazing, electric equipment and many other important occupations. Those concerned will be granted an extension in respect of the catafe debts incurred before 1 March, so that they will be paid in the quarter following the end of the emergency. Hungary's media service providers receive temporary tax exemptions due to the loss of advertising revenues. Like tourism and catering, we are therefore trying to support this sector separately. Evictions, seizures and tax executions have been suspended, and outstanding tax debts should be paid after the end of the emergency. The rights of children, children and children during an emergency have been extended until the virus situation is closed. It is also a forwarding point, ladies and gentlemen, that the task force responsible for relaunching the economy will consult with all the representatives of the occupational branches on the problems and seek solutions together. Another important measure was the increase from 5 thousand to 15 thousand forints in the total amount of contact payment card purchases allowed without the PIN code from 15 April. This makes it possible for 90 percent of payments to avoid hand-to-hand customers having to touch the terminal. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian government is working to provide adequate resources for public health and public protection. Several large domestic companies have also been involved in this. For example, MOL's apple-funeral unit starts producing 50,000 litres of disinfectants per day. In the spirit of protection against the epidemic, the government, in parallel with foreign purchases, is very rightly increasing and building up the capacity to produce raw materials and finished products for protection in Hungary, as products manufactured in Hungary are easily available, can be transported quickly and quickly to hospitals and health institutions. Domestic production also contributes to helping to alleviate the crisis that has spread to Hungary, which has not been experienced in the last decade. The Ministry of Innovation and Technology organises the provision of raw materials, such as textiles, plastics, ethanol, and, if necessary, helps to connect operators, in order to strengthen and build domestic production. In the case of masks and different protective clothing, the cooperation required for domestic production is continuously organised and supported. It is also important to note that, in addition to the domestic production of the necessary equipment, hundreds of tons of cargo needed to control the coronal virus epidemic has already come from China, and in the coming days and even weeks many aircraft shipments are arriving in Hungary. Dear House, The government has therefore taken all the measures that the neighbouring countries have taken; not only has it done so, but it has done so among the first ones, and thanks to God, we can see the lowest increase in the spread of infections compared to the surrounding countries. It is very important that the budgetary framework also provides for measures. Until now, the government has provided HUF 245 billion from the budget for the control of the epidemic. Economic protection measures left nearly HUF 90 billion in Hungarian businesses, and so far the government has spent 157 billion forints on epidemiological asset purchases. Ladies and gentlemen, You can see, therefore, that the Hungarian government has also taken exceptional steps in defence, protection of people and maintaining the strength of the economy. I ask you, like the Fidesz fraction, to support these steps in the following. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-40	Thank you, Congressman Bánki Erik. On behalf of the Government, Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, will respond to what has been said.
u2020-03-30-41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, In this extraordinary situation, I believe that the government is taking its decisions responsibly, which, by the way, is fully supported by public opinion. The government makes proportionate decisions based on each other: as the pandemic affects Hungary, the population of Hungary, families, businesses, decisions are also made in this way. The government's activities can be divided into two parts: on the one hand, which has already taken decisions and, on the other hand, which it will take. Because we all know that the epidemic, the crisis, will go on; it will go on; no one can say how long it will take today, no one in the world can tell us what effect it will have on people, families, existentials, what effect it will have on the economy, businesses and jobs in Europe. The Hungarian Government has made a very responsible decision, and in Europe, I think it is unique that its first decision was for families; it is because families who are in a difficult situation and have obligations, loans, loans, other obligations to banks and financial institutions, they do not have to repay these obligations by the end of the year on the basis of their own decisions. But families are also helped by the decision that there is no eviction, no seizure, and that the time of the exit is automatically extended to the time of the emergency. But the government also made decisions for Hungarian businesses. I think it is unique in Europe, too, that in sectors that seem to already be in an economically difficult situation, there is no need to pay contributions, social contributions and employee contributions to workers, and that the government is helping more than 80 thousand small businesses by making sure that the kata will not have to be paid by 30 June; this is about one third of Hungarian small businesses. No tourist contribution is to be paid in the tourism sector either. [[12.40]] These decisions give benefits to 300,000 employees of some 15,000 companies. It is a very important decision, and it concerns all companies that they do not have to repay the loans they have borrowed. This represents 380,000 transactions of 145 thousand businesses. At the same time, Magyar Nemzeti Bank has taken important decisions, helping to preserve the stability of the Hungarian banking system in liquidity issues and thus improve the liquidity of Hungarian businesses. But it is important to talk about what decisions will come next. Allow me to share with you an hour ago the news that Viktor Orbán, Prime Minister of Hungary, held a conference with the members of the government, the President of the Hungarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Managing Director of the Hungarian National Bank, the National Association of Employers and the Association of Tourist and Guestseeing Employers, about what the next steps are; the next steps are about when people lose their income, they may lose their jobs, services stop, production stops in Hungary, so we face growing problems and problems. The Prime Minister has identified three things: the diversion of the 2020 budget; the planning of the 2021 budget in the logic of the 2020 budget; therefore, the budget must be fully subject to the budgetary and economic difficulties caused by the crisis; and the third is the drawing up of a major economic re-launch action plan. Dear Parliament, We can see that the government is handling the situation properly and will, of course, make the right decisions depending on today's parliamentary decision, which will benefit Hungary. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-42	Thank you, Mr András Tállai State Secretary. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. László Varju, DK; Anita Kőrösi, Jobbik, Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik; Gergely Kálló, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Péter Jobbik and Ágh, Fidesz. Dear Parliament, Now, we're gonna have to decide on house rules, but first we're gonna have to do a presence check. In the meantime, I'd like to ask the secretary of state who's not sitting in their seats, who can't vote, to take their seats. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine, and anyone who senses that your machine is not working, please indicate by hand standing up and standing up. [[László Fat indicates that his machine is not working.]] That means everyone... [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: Mr. Speaker!]] Who? [[Intercoms from the ruling parties, among them: Mr Speaker!]] Mr. Speaker's computer doesn't work. Ready? It's working. It's not working? [[László Fat says no. Zoltán Balczó: Let's start again! The co-worker again enters László Fat's computer.]] It's not working. So the Speaker's machine doesn't work, so he'll use his hands to tell us how he's voting. Dear Parliament, Just to be safe, please press one more button on your voting machine, and anyone who senses that your machine isn't working, please signal it. [[On the mark of László Fat:]] Now it's working, Mr. Speaker and his computer. [[Defiance.]] I'm sorry. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, The House Committee has proposed a derogation from house rules in relation to the series of proceedings. This is H/9842. You can get to know him on the website. I would ask Mr Attila Móring to present the proposal for a derogation from the house rules. Mr. Messenger!
u2020-03-30-43	The Parliament shall depart from the rules of the decree so that the rules of the decree shall be applied to...
u2020-03-30-44	Mr. Note, you can't hear me. [[Intercoms, among them: It works!]]
u2020-03-30-45	It's ringing. Therefore, in the proceedings in progress on or following the adoption of a derogation from the House Rules, the House Rules of Decision 58. § 2 (2), the time limit laid down in paragraphs 5 and 6 shall begin again on the first day of the following ordinary session, on the first day of the following ordinary session, on the basis of the written initiative of the author of the individual motion to the chairman of the committee designated for inclusion in the series of articles, on the basis of the written initiative of the author of the individual motion to the chairman of the committee designated for inclusion in the series of items, by the committee designated for inclusion in the series of subjects, on the day of the first day of the next regular session. On the basis of the written initiative of the holder pursuant to paragraphs 5 and 8 of the Acting Committee, following the submission of an application for a series of articles, the Legislative Committee shall decide, within 30 days of the submission of the initiative, on the inclusion of a separate motion in the subject series. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2020-03-30-46	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need to vote in favour. I ask the Honourable Parliament to agree to the departure from the house rules of H/9842. On the basis of a number of recommendations. Please vote now. [[Result appearing on the table: 167 yes, 2 no, 3 stays.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted a derogation from the house rule by 157 votes in favour, 2 against and 3 abstentions. Dear Parliament, The agenda for today's meeting is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward in the power of the Speaker. We are therefore deciding on the agenda put forward by the Speaker. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] Thank you very much. It's a visible majority. I declare that the Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in accordance with the information provided previously by the Director-General, if you wish to leave the meeting room, you are first seated on the edge of the rear sectors, then you are in the middle and then you are in the front rows, leaving the room at the edge of the sectors, keeping a good distance between each other. I would ask my fellow Members to abstain in the Chamber during the day, in addition to voting, only the next speaker and the two subsequent speakers. Discussions can be followed by an internal television transmission system for all. The names of the following three Members will be presented by the chairman at the end of each speech. Dear Parliament, Please, those who leave the Chamber, do it a little faster. [[Some Members leave the Chamber. Noise.]] And keep it down. [[12.50]] Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the free distribution of wealth to the Hungarian Catholic Bishops' Conference and the discussion of the summary amendment will follow in order to facilitate educational tasks carried out by Pázmány Péter Catholic University. Government referral T/9474. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-30-47	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the meeting of the Legislative Committee held on 26 March 2020 T/9474 on the free distribution of assets to the Hungarian Catholic Bishops' Conference was discussed with a view to facilitating educational tasks performed by Pázmány Péter Catholic University. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 23 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, With the support of a significant majority of the Parliament elected in 2010, the government decided to maintain close contact with the Hungarian churches in order to achieve the Community's objectives ahead and to address social challenges. This is not a new fashioned concept, for historical experience proves that our Christian churches have played a role as indispensable institutions of nation building for centuries. In support of the importance of this cooperation, I would like to quote the idea of the excellent statesman of Hungarian history, the deeply believing Protestant István Tisza: I see much more power in the church. I see a lot more kinship between the church's religious ecclesiastical profession and the state's highest purpose, and I find it much more helpful to connect and cooperate with each other, much more damaging if the two work against each other, rather than being able to approve that the state simply interrupts all ties with the church. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fundamental Law of our country states that the state and religious communities operate separately, that religious communities are independent. Secularisation, on the other hand, does not mean neutrality at all. We can also read in the standard text of the Fundamental Law that the Hungarian state and religious communities can cooperate to achieve Community goals. The Fundamental Law itself provides an opportunity for the State to provide financial support for the operation of churches and, in fact, in accordance with the norm, the State grants special entitlements to established churches involved in cooperation in view of their participation in the tasks of achieving Community objectives. Dear House, The bill before us seeks to remedy the disadvantages of the geographical fragmentation of the training sites of Pázmány Péter Catholic University, which affect the functioning of certain faculty. It should be noted that the university is currently active in education, research and belief in Budapest, Piliscsaba and Esztergom. However, given the outstanding importance of the Pázmány Péter Catholic University, it is justified to ensure uniform placement of all the faculty and the necessary infrastructure conditions. The state-owned property contained in the proposal submitted has proved to be the most suitable for the expansion of the university. Under the relevant paragraphs of the laws on national property and on state property, the ownership of state property can be transferred free of charge under this legal provision. It is also proposed that it is not negligible to state that the church has no obligation to report the property ordered to the church. In view of the size of the transfer of ownership between the State and the University, the relevant legislation on church law cannot be ignored. In this way, it may be necessary to initiate consultation with the Holy See and prepare for an appropriate international agreement with regard to those acts. Dear Parliament, In the preamble to the Fundamental Law of Hungary, Christianity's role as a national preserver is recognised, which has accompanied the thunderstorming centuries of our history as a significant phenomenon. Our basic law, as the basis of our legal order, makes the protection of Christian culture an obligation for each body of the state. Our King Saint Stephen established a solid foundation for our state a thousand years ago, which he made part of Christian Europe. The bill on the table of the House also aims to promote the efficiency of the functioning of the Pázmány Péter Catholic University in the spirit of our Christian values and state traditions. This proposal can be supported as it makes a major contribution to enabling a higher education institution named after a respected theologian to carry out its educational, research and religious activities in a manner worthy of it, subject to the necessary conditions. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-48	Thank you very much, Congressman. I would like to ask Mr Balázs Orbán, Secretary of State, who is sitting here on behalf of the authors, whether he wishes to speak now or later. [[On Dr. Balázs Orbán's signal:]] Later, thank you very much. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, notary, DK.
u2020-03-30-49	Mr President, Dear House, I would like to make a very brief comment on two issues. One relates to the Commission's debate, more specifically to the report submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would just like to recall our dialogue with Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, because one of the amendments somewhat poetically has also written a special rule in the Fundamental Law, according to which the principle of separation between the church and the state is not specifically violated by the direct financial support of churches; this is not otherwise in the Fundamental Law, there is much else in it. I asked him if this meant that the government could see that this solution was not fortunate either for the state or for the churches. You sometimes forget that the principle of separation between church and state protects churches, and first the Protestants made a claim as a church; for no reason, because if the state finances churches, it also acquires management rights. But I would not go into this type of church policy and higher education policy debate now, as we have conducted it in the general debate. So I would like to point out that the report presented by the Legislative Committee does not substantially improve this bill, it is still a highly unequal exchange, when the Catholic Church receives an invaluable and unappreciated amount of wealth in exchange for a property likely to be much, much less valuable. There was no answer in the detailed discussion either to the manner in which this property was to be used further, nor to the reservations which the Commission's national pointed out, in a very fair manner, that the church does not have any liability to account for this property, it uses it, does what it wants to do with it. We make church property out of state property, that's all, except the separation of church and state. Secondly, I would like to say with great respect, with a little advance on the subject of the next debate, that it clearly shows your priorities, that, in addition to the downtime of the theatres, the other thing that the Parliament had to negotiate during a coronal virus epidemic could not have waited a few months, this large-scale real estate business, the transfer of a large mass of real estate, who knows for what long-term purposes, because once again, there is no legal guarantee. Once again, the part of church policy and higher education policy that we have conducted in the general debate, unfortunately this proposal has not become any more acceptable, eligible and fairer with the amendments. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[13.00]]
u2020-03-30-50	Thank you, Congressman Gergely Arató, notary. I'll ask him. [[For signal:]] and I will not ask, because I see that Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, KDNP, is coming.
u2020-03-30-51	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, We are not surprised that the Gyurcsány Party is again attacking the churches and the ecclesiastical institutions; it is not surprising that the party with which the government, the MSZP-SZDSZ government and the government of Ferenc Gyurcsány have been constantly reducing church support. They wanted to break the Vatican agreement, take away the extra funds from schools, churches, church schools. And we are not surprised that one of the representatives of the Gyurcsány Party resents the support provided to the church, because let us remember that this is the party whose leader regularly hired, who complained to the pope about the Hungarian bishops and who wanted to expel the priests from school. After that, let us not be surprised that the Gyurcsány Party is speaking against the churches as it has done in recent years. We believe that the social involvement of churches is a huge and very valuable asset in Hungary. We believe that the cultural, religious, social, educational, educational, spiritual, social and health involvement of churches is a huge asset in Hungary today, and that is why we regard historical churches as strategic partners in Hungary. I think that the quality of church education is very high in Hungary. Fortunately, in the past ten years, church involvement has increased steadily in the fields of education, education, social protection and child protection. And it is very important that in the current bill the educational, research, international, cultural and religious activities provided by Pázmány Péter Catholic University will take place in a unified location in Budapest, thus also competitiveness, the uniform placement in Budapest will serve student life, international role, various research projects and, of course, education in the first place. Therefore, as we have said in the general debate, we support this bill. We're asking DK to stop attacking the churches. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-52	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. The next speaker from the Fidesz Group is Mr György Balla.
u2020-03-30-53	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The left had an iconic figure for them. I don't want to be disrespectful, so I'd like to make it clear that I'm saying what I'm saying as a fact, not as a rating. This person was a Virtigli communist. He worked at the AVH, too. After the change of regime, he became Prime Minister of Hungary. Even this man once again, not qualified, but stated that he was a Virtigli Communist, this man also made an agreement with the Vatican on the support of churches and the free functioning of churches. Even him. And now thirty years after the change of regime, we have come to the point that there is at least one party in Hungary in parliament, and I cannot argue that there is a university with a church reservation! to obtain real estate from the Hungarian State. [[A statement from the ruling parties: That's right!]] Not the church! The church gets it as its owner, but it's actually used by a university, and we all know it. In exchange for the real estate they have used so far in Piliscsaba, the Hungarian state will be given a property against which left-wing representatives will dare to argue in the House today. [[A statement from the ruling parties: Nonsense!]] I would like to say that, on the one hand, they should be ashamed of themselves, the other, which is at least as important, that the party that dares to argue against the fact that a university does not receive real estate for university use, for the use of students, should never speak of freedom of science and education again. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-54	Thank you, Congressman György Balla. Dear Parliament, In the meantime, I must inform you that the House Committee's proposal for a derogation from the House Rules of Procedure has been wrongly published in the case of the series of amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Number of votes correctly: number of votes in favour: 167, no votes: 2, number of votes in favour: 3. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this does not change the outcome. I now give the floor to László László Keresztes, Leader of the Group, LMP.
u2020-03-30-55	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, At this stage of the debate, I did not want to comment, but there is a specific situation where Mr Csaba Nagy presented the position of the Legislative Committee and several pro-government representatives spoke in general to the debate, so I would like to put a question in a strong context with what has been said. Congressman Csaba Nagy, who is an individual parliamentary representative of the 4th constituency of Baranya County, said that the state recognises the role of Christianity as a national preserver and also said that it is the responsibility of all state institutions to protect Christian culture. In this particular constituency there is a settlement of Abaliget, and in Abaliget there is a church school that is a very good example in all aspects. And not so long ago, the parents were shocked to learn that the Pécs Püspök College of Faith Sciences no longer wishes to maintain this small-town and, in every respect, truly exemplary church school and to return it to the state maintainer. And despite the fact that another church organization has come forward to maintain the school, the college of religious science firmly insists on this idea. And no one can answer why. Parents, local government and thousands of supporters have expressed their concern for the survival of the school and are very strongly asking that this school be maintained, that this small settlement school be maintained. We know how difficult it is to maintain these schools, and in all respects, apart from the educational function itself, this school is very, very exemplary. The fact is that the decision of the college of religious science to go to the state maintainer seems final, but there is some kind of rigidity in the system here, because it may have been revealed that it will stay with the state maintainer for at least a year, and that the question of the school should not come to the other potential and church maintainer in this case. [[L. Simon László: What does this have to do with the law?]] So if Mr Csaba Nagy has already participated in this debate and presented the position of the Legislative Committee, I think it would be very, very good if we had approached this debate so generally at this stage, if we could have some kind of reassuring response, parents, that this very good school in Abaliget could survive, which is a really good example in every respect. Thank you very much in advance. And sorry, I would also like to refer to Mr Balla's speech that the state supports universities with real estate. My question and my request is that, in the same way, they are in a very difficult situation and that rural higher education institutions are in an increasingly difficult situation, and they will also be able to receive similar housing subsidies in order to facilitate, in this respect, the survival of remote rural areas, economic, social and, in all respects, these areas. So it is very, very important that we also see steps on the part of the government in this direction. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-30-56	Thank you very much, Mr. László Keresztes. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. Since I see that you are preparing, I give the floor on behalf of the rapporteurs to Mr Orbán Balázs, State Secretary, who will obviously respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2020-03-30-57	Yeah. Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I'd be very short. First of all, I would like to thank you in this place for the words of support that have been said in the general debate not only on the pro-government side but also on the opposition side. I think that a majority beyond party policy logic can be put together behind this bill, and it is right that it is. I, of course, followed the Commission debate and this debate. Of course, there is also a party political edge in this matter, but it is still about the Hungarian state wanting to help a university, to eliminate disadvantages arising from the fragmented geographical location of a university, and to ensure a uniform campus-like placement for a Hungarian higher education institution, and also in the downtown of Budapest, on an excellent site that is suitable to fulfil the community function and the competitive higher education function that the XXI. In the 20th century, a higher education institution, which has an international ranking, has to fill it. [[13.10]] Therefore, I think that the aim that we are here for and the goal that I hope will be to support the bill beyond party policy logic is right. The speech by the representative of the Democratic Coalition, Mr Arató, showed that there could not be a complete consensus behind the proposal. They represent a political force who, among the provisions of the Fundamental Law, which relate to the relationship between the state and the church, are always quoting only one of the provisions. This is said, as the Member quoted, that the state and the church operate separately from each other. But there is also another provision, which also has the basis for legal support, and if we look at the other constitutions in an international comparison, we see similar ones there, that the state and the church must cooperate with the historical churches, which traditionally have great social support in one country, and there is a duty to this cooperation, which must be primarily for cultural, educational and social purposes. This bill fulfils this obligation. This is not a new obligation, the cooperation between the Pázmány Péter Catholic University and the Hungarian state has been established before. Once again, we want to solve problems with university organisation and the location of the university. In the general debate, opinions on the opposition side were very sincere, including from representatives who also attended this university and the Campus in Piliscsaba, that, indeed, after the change of regime, this was a sensible concept, so that there would be three centres of the Pázmány Péter Catholic University, one in Budapest, one in Piliscsaba and one in Esztergom, but eventually this concept could not be realised. That this could not be achieved because this cannot be achieved in Hungary, or that the whole political department has made a mistake in its implementation, we cannot decide here. Discussions were also held in this regard during the general debate, but there was unity in the fact that this concept is not working within the current framework, so there is a valuable property which the church would gladly renounce for the benefit of the state. This is a culturally valuable real estate complex. This will then be State property and state property will be transferred to the Church in the manner necessary to move into the university. That's what the bill is about. This is a rational higher education policy step, and the government therefore supports this proposal and thanks Members for their constructive approach to the proposal. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-30-58	Thank you, Mr. Balázs Orbán, for the closing. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the application for protection of the coronal virus and the final amendment proposal follow up. The government referral is T/9790. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-03-30-59	[[His mic's not working.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Legislative Committee on 26 March 2020... [[Intercoms: No sound!]]
u2020-03-30-60	Let's have a voice, please. Although it did make a sound, only the loudspeaker didn't transmit it.
u2020-03-30-61	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen,
u2020-03-30-62	I can't do it now! [[Csaba Nagy has a hand microphone placed in front of him.]] Thank you very much.
u2020-03-30-63	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 26 March 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/9790 on the protection of the Crown Virus. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 24 votes in favour, 7 votes against and 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, With effect from 11 March 2020, the Government of Hungary declared a special legal order and emergency to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens throughout the country. The world's invisible enemy, the fight against the corona virus, has no global solution yet, so each country will develop its own defence strategy. It has now become clear that it is the joint task of all of us to prevent, slow down the spread of the coronal virus and to support the fight against infection and to protect human health. Responsible decisions must be taken by the Parliament and the government in times of crisis. These unusual restrictions require great patience and understanding from all Hungarian citizens, but with sufficient discipline and cooperation, the power of joint action can come to fruition. Unfortunately, on 23 March this cooperation could not be proved, since the adoption of the bill could not have come true by way of a derogation from the house rules. Ladies and gentlemen, The Fundamental Law sets out in very detail and guarantees what to do and what to do in the exceptional situation of constitutional bodies. The aim of the proposal before us is to extend the scope of the decree of the Government declaring an emergency against the human epidemic which threatens the safety of life and property under Article 53 (1) and which is causing a mass disease, beyond 15 days, to which Article 53 (3) of the Fundamental Law provides. The proposal sets out that the delegation of power by the Parliament can only relate to the current special legal order situation and intends to define the scope of the government within the framework of the constitutional requirements of necessity and proportionality, taking into account the fundamental and rule of law principles. Dear House, The proposal submitted ensures the continued and guaranteed functioning of the Constitutional Court as the constitutional body for the main protection of the Fundamental Law under this special legal order. The proposal is intended to regulate a double criminal case that protects increased public security. One of the cases is the obstruction of the epidemiological measure to be regulated as an intangible offence, which manifests itself as an obstacle to a specific official protection measure, which is why it is more punishable than a simple formal infringement. The second novum is a legal record of the new, second basic case of rumors, as it is to be expressed as clearly as possible that, in the context of an exhaustive defence throughout the country, freedom of speech should not extend to the claim and reputation of known false facts. On the other hand, the new basic case does not intend to punish a claim which, bearing in mind the requirement of criminal constitutionality, is not capable of disrupting the outcome of the defence and therefore does not have an objective effect on public rest. Dear Parliament, The strength of national unity and the collaboration of Hungarian people can be the only sure solution in times of crisis. The proposal on the House's table is capable of creating the application of the necessary measures under the current special legal order and at the same time creating the basis for the functioning of the State. Therefore, the proposed legislation should be supported. Government representatives support the government's decisions and grant all powers in accordance with the Fundamental Law, thus also giving the government the opportunity to successfully defend itself against the Crown Virus. I'm asking you to do the same. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-30-64	Thank you, Congressman Csaba Nagy. Dear Parliament, I ask you, on behalf of the authors, the Secretary of State Pál Völner is now... [[Dr. Pál Völner: Later!]] He wants to comment later. Thank you very much. He'll tell you later. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frames on the agenda. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács, Jobbik, whom I do not see... [[Dr. László György Lukács: I'm here!]] Yeah, because there's no periscope. [[13.20]]
u2020-03-30-65	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. He can't see me because I'm right on the edge of the room. When I sat up as a clerk, I was in trouble, too, because we couldn't see the people sitting on the edge at all. But even if you can't see, you can hear me for what I'm saying, and I hope our Fidesz fellow Members can hear you. The opposition's position and Jobbik's position have not changed. Ladies and gentlemen, We can continue to vote against this legislation. You know our position, you know exactly what Jobbik says no to. Jobbik defined one circumstance, one thing, and this is determined time. It's got to have a deadline. We can argue here! We have also given you the opportunity in the Legislative Committee, but even now with proposals to amend it, to give the government the mandate for 60, 90 or 120 days, or even six months, and not to report to Parliament on these regulations until then, and not to have to meet until then, if you can believe that you really fear that Parliament will not be able to meet in the next 90 days, otherwise this is the middle of the summer, so we have given you the escape route, and this is the one thing we have asked of you. We have asked that this situation be used not by the government to build its own power infinitely, but to combat the epidemic in the most effective way. I'd like to clarify one more thing. I was deeply offended, despite the fact that I am aware of the nature of politics, that our fellow Members have told a number of circumstantial lies about a factual matter that Mr Pál Völner will be able to confirm, or my fellow Members who were at opposition and pro-government talks. Máté Kocsis, but also my fellow Member, György Balla, on the Legislative Committee, because I listened to the account of the speeches there, he lied that the opposition never had the need to have a deadline in the negotiations. [[György Balla: That's not true!]] According to MTI's report, that's how it came out of your mouth. I'm sorry, I read the MTI announcement. I would like to make one point clear, and that concludes the debate. I was at both the March 13th and the 18th meeting. It was said on the 13th and the 18th, hypothetically, on the first, because the legislation was not yet known, but we knew that the mandate had something to do with it, and what deadline could be set, Gergely Gulyás said, and the parties reflected on it, and on the 18th, if I remember correctly, Tamás Harangozó started the comments, who said, and then all the Members insisted that opposition parties could only accept it. I would like this to be said here and so, so that, at least for the protocol, it should include the negotiations on which the ruling parties and the opposition parties were sitting, and on which they really wanted to resolve the situation, at least the opposition parties were taking an unbroken position. I would like to ask you to support this amendment in any case, with a variety of time bands. We are asking you to have partners and vote in this. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-30-66	Thank you, Congressman. Speaking in advance, Congressman György Balla, Fidesz.
u2020-03-30-67	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, I honestly admit that yesterday, when I tried to gather my thoughts for today's debate, I still hoped that I would be able to convince my fellow Members. The comments before today's agenda have swept away this hope. I'll try because I'll never give up, but I don't think there's much room for hope here. However, before I speak specifically about the bill, allow me to respond in two sentences to the comments before the agenda. I may be able to do that because they were about the same thing, not the bill, but the coronal virus situation. I'm sick of it, fellow Members. Several times, but especially then... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We've had our stomachs the last few days.]] Are you finished, Congresswoman? Thank you very much. Only human behavior has rules of courtesy, such as waiting for me to finish what I have to say, asking for a word and answering it. So, I got sick of it, especially when one of the most important personalities of Ferenc Gyurcsány's party, Ágnes Vadai, who took a deep part in the 2008 crisis management, so in that crisis management, he still demands that the wages of health workers be doubled with incredible arrogance, while when they dealt with a crisis, they took a month's wages from health workers. This is already a level of dishonesty, a level of populism that I think, in general, no one could afford, not when we are living in times like this, when we need to join forces, when we need to try to help people as many as possible by saying the same thing. Ladies and gentlemen, In the first moment of the outbreak, the government rightly declared an emergency. The announcement of the emergency was obviously a prerequisite for taking a series of measures that, to the best of my knowledge, the opposition would neither object to nor even support if it had not been adopted in the way it is in the regulation, but it is in no way contrary to your idea. At least that's what I know. But the fact is that the constitution is clear, the emergency is declared by the government and eliminated by the government, but the regulations adopted in the emergency live for only 15 days without the approval of Parliament. We all know that. It is therefore clear that Parliament must make a decision. It should have made a decision last week on Tuesday in order not to have an exlex condition, not to have a condition where regulations are not alive, and yet, in other ways, it is necessary to resolve the need to protect the health of people and citizens in a twisted way. There is another way to make sure that students do not have to go to college, that students do not have to go to school, that borders are still closed. We did it without you, just like we promised. But wouldn't it have been a lot easier if we had done this in a normal way? If I may, I would like to reply to some of the fundamental errors that have been made in this case from the opposition side, but mostly from the mouths of opposition press and opposition mouths. If someone takes the law into their hands and does not take 444.hu, then the law is about to be number one. Therefore, it is not too complicated in its section, not towards the end, and in its first phase you can read the following: the law lays down specific rules relating to the emergency order for the protection of the health and life of Hungarian citizens in order to prevent or eliminate the consequences of a mass disease that endangers life and property security. In English, it doesn't apply to anything but the solution to the coronal virus situation. That's coming from the first stage. So the fact that there's a general mandate here is not the case. But if we take the trouble and go all the way to 2. We are willing to go as far as §8 of the bill, and here we read: the government can exercise its powers to the extent necessary, proportionate to the objective pursued, with the aim of preventing, managing, eliminating and preventing the harmful effects of the human epidemic. I'm just keeping it quiet, because that's what they like to keep quiet about the fact that this was included in the bill as a proposal for opposition. So the fact that the government did not accept the opposition's proposal is simply not so. But if we look at nothing else from the law, honourable Members, but only the first two sections, then three things are absolutely clear: (1) to the extent necessary is included in the law; (2) proportionately; (3) only in relation to the epidemic. [[13.30]] So if anyone, any of their tellers, is talking about, by the way, my God, the dictatorship, the Orban, that kind of authority, that kind of thing, it's quite simply lying. I would like to ask my fellow Members not to listen to the naphthalene-smelling lecturers of the SZDSZ; not to György Magyar, Majtényi, Kaltenbach, Mária Vásárhelyi. Believe your own eyes, read the bill. And once again, do not read the petitions of NGOs funded from abroad, but the bill! If you read the first two points, then it is clear to all Hungarian people who can read Hungarian and understand what they are reading, I am not talking about Bence of Tordai, who, by the way, yells at you, so you understand what you're reading, it is clear that these NGOs are not telling the truth. For 30 years, they've been listening to these tellers. Don't do it now. Now the country would need much more to express its own opinion. The third point they say is about the duration of the emergency and the duration of the law. You're saying it's not good because it's indeterminate, it's 30 days, 60 days, it's 120 days now. Anyway, make sure there's some day, right, that's the point? Well, ladies and gentlemen, we have already talked about the first two stages, so let's go to the third; it is not so complicated, first, second, third. Article 3 § says the following in parentheses before him, shall I say the ordering of an emergency and its termination be decided by the government according to the Constitution. You can't touch that because it would be against the Constitution. But it's the third one. § 2 states: Parliament may, therefore, revoke the mandate before the emergency resolves. Not 30 days from now, not 60 days from now, not 120 days from now; when he wants to, when he sees it, whether the government has closed the emergency or not. The government does not take jurisdiction away from Parliament, honourable Members, but clearly gives us the decision of the Parliament as to how long the regulations adopted will be in force. Another question is that Parliament can exercise this power in two ways. One, if it is able, if it can sit together, if it is in such a state that it is suitable for meeting; the other, if it wants to. And I have to admit, they're right, it depends on the will of the majority of the government. The will of Parliament is usually expressed by the majority. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that this is not in a dictatorship, but in a democracy. So the fact is that, contrary to your proposal, which could cement this situation on a remote time limit, the proposal before us only makes it conditional on the decision of the Parliament, which the Parliament can make at any time: how long will it stay up when it should end? The fourth element, which is commonly referred to as the mouth lock law. That's not very creative, because that's what they say about everything these days. It didn't, did it, obviously nothing that they said before when they changed the house rules, that they wouldn't get a word, they couldn't talk, and I don't know what. They're here. They're talking. It's been said recently that this is how the government wants to silence the opposition press. I would like to ask you to have a better view of your own press. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] If you look at the bill and I talk about facts again, then it says here: who, under a special legal order, who, in a large public presence, is making false facts or facts distorted or famous in such a way that they are capable of hindering or frustrating the effectiveness of the defence, can be punished by a prison sentence ranging from one to five years due to a criminal offence. I would like to ask you, with all due respect, is it really your opinion of the opposition press that it is constantly false? An untrue fact that is otherwise capable of obstructing or frustrating the outcome of the defense? That's really your opinion of the long-lost Index, HVG, 168 Hours, News24, Club Radio, RTL Club, and I'd say, Mérce, Transparent, I don't know, what else? Because if that is not your opinion, how can you say that this proposal limits the functioning of the press in any way? It's trying to stop the rumors, panicking, just memorizing them in parentheses, not according to the government's decision. It is a crime, Hungary is a rule of law, and every penalty can be imposed by the courts, no one else. So when you object to this provision, you are not only expressing an opinion about your own press, but also about the Hungarian courts. Please don't do this. Don't call it a mouth lock law, but think about how many phones you've received, let's say, when some half-crazy started spreading on Facebook to shut down Budapest! How many families did this cause a very serious scare? ! Where, let's say, the grandmother was in Budapest, and the children were somewhere around Budapest, and they didn't know that if they shut down Budapest, it never was, what they would do. How many of you are in a hurry? I think it's in our mutual interest to prevent that. I don't understand why you object. I don't understand why you object! So, with all due respect, the hope never given up, that if you understood what I said... I don't think it was complicated if you want to listen to your own opinion instead of the opinion of the SZDSZ tellers, and if you know exactly that history is going to judge you, it's not that long. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] 'Cause this epidemic is gonna end, and sooner or later, it's gonna end, and people are gonna see that nothing you've said has ever happened, there's no dictatorship, there's no emergency, there's no normal order. They're gonna ask you why you lied to them all over the place. They'll ask you. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Because you can't hear anything. Dr. László György Lukács: You don't dare!]] So I think that, although they made a very serious mistake last Monday, because instead of working together, they were busy putting a stick between the spokes, it was a historic mistake and a sin, but perhaps if today, by gathering their common sense and their integrity, they voted in favour of this bill, then, of course, I am speaking in a political sense of criminality. [[Dr. László György Lukács: After that condescending tone, he must have convinced us!]] What they've done can't be fixed, it's impossible to fix, but they can find rescue conditions. Listen to your common sense, instead of the Majtényi, the Kaltenbachs, Transparency, the Hungarian Helsinki Committee and all the others! I would like to ask you to do this, fellow Members. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[13.40]]
u2020-03-30-68	Thank you, Congressman György Balla. Preliminary speaker Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the LMP Group.
u2020-03-30-69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, I'm really glad that I'm coming to speak now, because then I might be able to continue in this tone of voice. I will also start by not giving up hope that I might convince my fellow members of the government. [[Dr. László György Lukács: Don't wait.]] I can tell you this, fellow Members, and you may believe me: I am not one of those who, as the Hungarian voice of the lecturers of the SZDSZ, shine in Parliament, that I believe that you are serious about this, that we really need cooperation here, but I do not understand why you do not act that way. In fact, I do not understand why they act in a way that deliberately prevents cooperation, because that is what we really need right now. The country is already in an extremely difficult situation, and we only suspect in a few weeks' time what terrible conditions we will have to live in and what challenges this country and this nation will face. This is indeed the responsibility of all of us for this period, at least to create political peace, political truce, and to try to establish a national consensus, a cooperation on measures directly related to anti-epidemic action or restrictions on the spread of the epidemic. This is extremely important. This was also felt important by the LMP faction and by all opposition parties, and he feels it is important now, and in this spirit we participated in several consultations between the seven factions. For a moment, even for a day or two, it seemed as if there were intentions, even on the part of the pro-government factions, to form this cooperation. Mr Lukács said that we have indeed come with proposals for this substantive discussion of the bill to the Prime Minister's Office, and indeed some proposals have been adopted. By the way, I also had a proposal which was accepted, which I do not know which of the pro-government Members was actually my proposal on proportionality; it was indeed my proposal. But it was said at this meeting that it is extremely important to have a time limit in addition to these guarantees and other guarantees. This was already made clear at the time, and it seemed at this meeting that this was really understood and felt by the government side. Moreover, even the government's experts began to draw up a legal opinion on how such a time limit could be codified, taking into account the possibility that perhaps, say, in three months' time, Parliament would no longer be able to meet. Then, a few days later, a proposal was tabled that lacked this most important condition, the time limit. Government propaganda was launched, which was on top after last Monday's vote. This proved that you actually said in words that you should put aside party political logic and party political battles, which, by the way, in terms of words, you have said that you are, but you have started to act in the opposite direction. Obviously, on Friday, some of my fellow Members have already said that what you started after last week's vote was a lying government propaganda, and there have been quite hysterical, shocking statements from government propaganda, to say that in many cases you have already gone through an extremely hateful curse. But I would add, and this may also be a criticism to the opposition side, that there were indeed voices, voices from the opposition's side, who almost cried dictatorship in a hysterical tone. What I can tell you is that you certainly didn't hear a statement like that from me. I do not think that you want to build a dictatorship now, but it is very, very important for you to understand that these guarantees and these restrictions are not needed to calm down opposition representatives. I've had some pretty amazing requests for the last week. There is a shocking lack of confidence in Hungarian society, and the demand and expectation that this bill, the extraordinary legal order, should not be introduced without a time limit, is quite amazing, and this is the case. In the past ten years and otherwise, everyone in this way has had a responsibility in their own way to create a shocking degree of political distrust and division in Hungarian society, and it is our joint task and responsibility to try to resolve this in this epidemiological situation, in this crisis, or at least try to resolve it at a level that prevents everything from being important, and that is why we need these certain guarantees. I said, Mr Balla, that I would try to convince you with this argument. Here, I would like to refer a little bit to the legal text of the specific law, and I will try to convince you that this guarantee is necessary, and you have the opportunity to provide the guarantees and create this particular social consensus that you consider important. This is also important because it is certain that this situation will be extremely serious; in a few weeks, it will get worse to a shocking extent, and we can be quite sure of that. This will require a series of measures that will significantly limit our lives. To do this, people need patience, acceptance, trust. The measures which, in many cases, are very important measures, and there is consensus in this respect, which you have drafted in this law, can be successful if there is no political struggle, no severing, but there is a consensus of a kind that you can now, I repeat, create. Therefore, epidemiological measures, which are also important, extremely strict measures restricting individual freedom, require the success of these measures to be truly effective, require this type of social consensus, because if this does not develop and this party-political fight continues, this mud-slapping will weaken the impact of these measures and weaken the country's defence capabilities. This is a serious mistake. We can't afford that. I accept the argument that we do not know whether in 30 or 90 days, or at the end of any deadline, the Parliament will be able to meet. We have therefore put forward a proposal with very careful work and otherwise excellent legal professionals, which would normally set a 90-day deadline. So, for 90 days, this legal order could remain in force, but at the same time it will treat the situation with codification if, after 90 days, this deadline, that Parliament would not be able to meet, gives the government very clear guarantees that it will be able to extend in the event of another Parliament meeting. That is why I ask my fellow Members to support this amending proposal, and then the LMP faction will vote in favour of this entire legislation. I apologize and thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
u2020-03-30-70	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Speaking in advance, Mr János Bencsik is an independent Member.
u2020-03-30-71	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, My independent colleague Tibor Bana and I have tabled a package of amendments to this bill, which, of course, has been voted down by the pro-government Members according to its order and manner. Now, that's the part where I'm outraged, I call out dictatorship, and I announce that I'm going to fight this law to the very last drop of my blood, but that's not what I'm going to do. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you all for having voted against this amendment package. If they hadn't done so, then there would be a situation where I should be in favour of a bill which, in the meantime, turned out to be meaningless at all, because you can make every single provision that is important for the protection of the country. The curfews that entered into force this weekend prove exactly that they can do anything, and that they can submit the government decrees over and over again, and that the Parliament can confirm them afterwards. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I would also like to address you. In Hungary there will be a dictatorship not now, and not from this law, because Fidesz has a two-thirds majority of every opportunity to do anything in this country, just as it has had every opportunity in the last ten years to do everything in the country that it is not ashamed of or even that. As long as there is an emergency, and this emergency will persist as long as Viktor Orbán wants it to exist. [[Rumors from the Fidesz ranks.]] They don't even need a two-thirds majority until then, and they don't even need a simple majority, because in the event of an emergency, if every Fidesz and every Christian Democrat tomorrow, let's say, would be in a home quarantine and a minority government, it would still be possible to make these provisions exactly that way. Ladies and gentlemen, Last week I looked at Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's face on the day after the 4th vote. He's rarely in Parliament, and I was curious about his feelings. And do you know what I saw in him? He was full of delight, balance, confidence, complete element, completely in his comfort zone. And do you know why? Because everything goes according to his script, everything that happens now is his master plan. The opposition representatives 'no' because it was the only step to be taken, they unwittingly contributed precisely by contributing to this lousy trade fair comedy. That is why the fidesz narrative was created where Viktor Orbán fought the virus with one hand and the other hand against the traitorous opposition, and everything that happens now, if the defense is successful, if the measures are successful, it will be his fault, and if not, it will be the opposition's. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] So in the last sentence, I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to take part in this vote, not to press a button, because it is the only responsible and reasonable decision in this situation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-30-72	Thank you, independent Congressman Benchik. The next speaker is János Harghitai, representative of the Christian Democratic People's Party. [[13.50]]
u2020-03-30-73	Dear Parliament, Mr. President. The country is in a special situation, in a situation we have never been in before. We're in a special legal order, but let's just say this is a situation enshrined in the Fundamental Law. The government not only had the opportunity but also had a constitutional obligation to declare an emergency in such a situation. And, yes, you are correct in saying that this emergency lasts as long as the danger persists. The emergency can be eliminated by the government. With a decree, the government has declared an emergency and has made many other regulations so far, and will obviously continue to be in line with the threat, and the scope of these measures, these regulations, will expire every 15 days. The Parliament is faced with how to deal with this situation. You are saying that we should set a time limit for how long these provisions can live, and then we should meet and discuss this situation. We are saying that we should create the ideal conditions for the government to deal with this emergency, because, fellow Members, the stakes are high. People are dying in the world and in Hungary, and we are crawling after the virus. Medical science is not prepared for the ideal treatment of this virus today, and I trust that this is only a temporary condition, but this is the case today, so this emergency poses great dangers for us. At a time like this, you should not be thinking about trying to strengthen your constitutional potential during a period of such an emergency, but of standing behind the government. Not behind anyone else, behind the government because the government has the authority to deal with this crisis in an operational way. There is more cooperation in society, including your voters, behind the government's actions than it seems here in Parliament. Now you are asking us to ensure that the relative unity in society, while supporting the government's actions, is not the ideal conditions for the government's operation, but for you to control the government in some way, in accordance with your political interests. I note that you will be able to do so again in the future, because Parliament will meet. We do not expect that a crisis will occur that Parliament will not be able to meet is a very tragic situation already, and if Parliament meets, you will have the opportunity, week after week, within the framework of Parliament, to check the government with speeches before the agenda or with immediate questions, as you have done and will do in the future, and you will have every opportunity to do so. You say that we could have dealt with this issue with a simple law, because we could have decided by a 50 percent majority to authorise the government to extend the scope of the regulations that have expired. Theoretically, they're right, we could have done that, but we were trying harder. We have said that, in this emergency, within the framework of the disaster management law, this is the fundamental law that provides a framework for the movement of the law, more is needed in order for the government to manage this threat successfully, and this is created by the Crown Virus Act. So we didn't just want to give the government the opportunity to fire, we wanted to give the government a meaningful opportunity to move. That's what you understand. Theoretically, they also approve of the decisions the government has taken so far, only you want to argue about it in certain situations, and if you like, the enemy's face... the opposition wants to show its face at times in an emergency. That this is now happening every 15 days, every 90 days, or every six months, is a detailed question in this respect. However, we say that this is not the important thing to discuss the decisions of the government, but rather to show unity. The vote, which will take place in an hour, will decide that Parliament has been able to show a unity such as that which otherwise exists in society. [[Zoltán Balczó: That's right.]] I fear that Parliament is once again undermining society in this regard. You say there's no need. [[Zoltán Balczó: None.]] the adoption of the Crown Virus Act, because, well, some of the measures have expired here 15 days ago, I'm referring to the fact that we weren't given permission to adopt this law immediately, and yet the government was able to resolve it. But how did you manage it, fellow Members? We're at war. We can't really see the enemy, because if they were shooting at us, we'd see the enemy. We're meeting a killer virus here. Consider it a war. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea keeps interrupting.]] What is the government doing under duress in this situation? He's asking the university rectors to keep their institutions closed. So you want some. He's asking the mayors not to open kindergartens and nurserys. The chief of staff in a normative order, which is not even legal to move his own organization, of course, otherwise he asks the police to literally ask the police to cooperate in the implementation of the measures he has taken. Do you think that this is ideal to ask in a war instead of giving the government a clear opportunity to move around, to give orders, to make decisions, and to take account of the implementation of these decisions? You understand perfectly that there is a great difference between a request and a clear order. Yet they are not able to stand behind the government, even in this crisis, because you have more important political interests, and in this emergency they are seeking to expand their own political interests. We're not gonna be partners in this. We are taking advantage of our constitutional responsibility, which the electorate has imposed on us, and in an hour we will vote for this law. We'll be happy to do it with you. If not, we will enforce the will of the electorate without you. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-30-74	Thank you, Congressman Harghitai. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik.
u2020-03-30-75	Mr. President. Thank you for the floor. Dear Parliament, Let's be clear: we are political opponents. There's one enemy: the virus epidemic. Congressman Harghitai first called us enemies, and then he improved his opponent. It's an important matter of perception. [[Nacsa Lawrence: You fixed it, didn't you? The president's ringing the bell.]] I'll keep going, if you don't mind. The constant or unanimous adoption of the bill against the virus epidemic is an obstacle for Viktor Orbán to insist on continuing this particular regulation without any time limit. Let's just say we have experience that this government can abuse power. Now I would like to quote from a letter to you: "The fact that there is an emergency is a fact. The fact that a government needs an extraordinary mandate in such a situation is also a fact. However, it is a false slide that, since we do not know the end of the emergency, we do not know the end of the extraordinary exercise of power, so that Parliament gives the government the authority to do so as long as it lasts. And how long it takes, the government will tell you. The specific time-limit of the powers of the supreme authority is completely unacceptable to a civil conservative Democrat. Who sent this message to you? Péter Zárug Farkas, politician close to Fidesz , who, by the way, was the Fidesz campaign manager of Miskolc at the municipal election. Ladies and gentlemen, As we have heard, and obviously so, this law will be passed in an hour's time, but it doesn't matter whether it's your vote or we can finally set an example for the country, the population, that we can vote on this together. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right.]] And if this is not born, I hope that in the vast media manipulation that you have aroused, people will also put it on the balance of why this was not born, who is responsible for this: the opposition that was able to vote for any part of this mandate, not one thing; he said that it was said earlier that the unlimited duration was not. Or is he responsible for the government who will reject each compromise proposal if it does, the 120 days, the extension, the automatic extension after 90 days indicated by LMP, everything, everything because it insists on an unlimited duration? I trust you'll think about it. This is your chance. It's up to you. We will vote on this. Thank you very much. [[A rare applause in the benches of opposition parties.]]
u2020-03-30-76	Thank you, Congressman Balczó. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik.
u2020-03-30-77	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would also like to thank Parliament for the work of everyday heroes who, instead of the government, practically stand by the people to overcome the disadvantages caused by the coronal virus epidemic. [[14.00]] What is this law about? In this law, it empowers the government to govern with government decrees, to forge future regulations, the content of which we do not even know, and not only cannot be held, but can not even be initiated. But what is the legal situation? The legal situation is that both the Fundamental Law and the Disaster Protection Act require exactly what to do for each government activity. This bill was nothing, but it wasn't necessary. When I opposed this in my main speech, the Ministry's representative replied that when the disaster protection law was drafted, they did not prepare for this type of disaster, and that, in their view, not all guarantees were included in that law, which is why we needed this new law. But that's not true. Why do we need this new law? It is because Viktor Orbán not only strives to overcome this epidemic with the help of citizens and with the work of the government, but also that if the defence fails and there will be many victims, he can turn it on the opposition, and if he succeeds, he can be celebrated as a king. Have you heard the words of my fellow Members and the population of the country over the last few weeks: Minister for Emergency Response, appointed Minister, Emergency Aid, Emergency Response Plan, National Emergency Information System, Government Coordination Plan, Critical Infrastructure Protection, Central Emergency Response Plan, Emergency Supply and Emergency Situation Management Plan? You know why you didn't hear? They didn't hear it because the government refuses to apply the provisions of the Disaster Protection Act. These were not heard because nine years ago, since the Disaster Protection Act had been passed, plans, coordination systems, institutions needed to act automatically in accordance with protocols when such a disaster occurred, and not to create laws. I remember discussing the numerous amendments to the Disaster Protection Act and the Fundamental Law, when the author argued that these rules could be applied in any case. Now where are we? ! Is there a new law to be made? ! Why is that? That's because I'm trying to distract you from being lame. I'd like to draw your attention to the fact that disaster relief, you know what it's about? It is in the law: every year, the budget law must allocate resources for this, so that if citizens cannot provide for their livelihoods in the event of a disaster, the government will do so from this budget. Have you guys talked about this in the last few weeks? No. You know why you didn't talk? Because they don't want to solve people's existential problems, they just want to bring out their own political virtues from a disaster epidemic, and they want to share people, and they want to scare people all the time. People are in a very difficult situation anyway, insecure. I call on the government and the government representatives to stop exciting people. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] apply their laws, and then we'll all get out of this danger. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-30-78	Thank you, Congresswoman. The next speaker is Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, the Christian Democratic People's Party.
u2020-03-30-79	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council of the European Union, Congratulations, you have once again managed to launch a series of international attacks on Hungary. You've started an international hack campaign again, and you've just spent the last week spreading fake news. Of course, Ferenc Gyurcsány's deputy, Péter Jakab, had to explain on the phone, who, during the pandemic of many victims, even made jokes in the telephone campaign to make jokes with Hungarians about this serious epidemic. I've been looking back at the last 25 posts on Jobbik's Facebook page, and none of the posts are there to keep you at home, to encourage people to stay at home. None of the posts are there to worry about the elderly, none of the posts are there about the precautionary measures that the government has taken and how they should be respected. There are two kinds of posts: you hate the government, you constantly insult the government, or you say your own proposals, but you once did not share content that would encourage your supporters, your followers, to comply with these measures. You have said no to the measures taken so far last Monday and are now saying no to the forthcoming measures that the government intends to take later. It is very rare in politics that, after a very serious mistake, a political player, a party or an entire opposition will have the opportunity to get a replacement exam. This is not the nature of politics, but you have been given this event, this opportunity to apply for an additional examination today, that today you can still stand on the side of the health and safety of Hungarian people and put aside your petty political games and give your own votes to crucial decisions. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that the emergency has been said here as a matter of fact, that Viktor Orbán will tell us when the emergency is over. No. The plague will decide that the plague has an objective end. If the Hungarian government had told us when the epidemic was over, it would have told us long ago. Neither Parliament nor the Hungarian Government has the opportunity to decide when this epidemic is over. Orbán doesn't have one, and neither do we. Obviously, our fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm has already overcome a dozen pandemics with one hand, which is why he has such an experience; there has never been a pandemic in our lives, honourable Member. It is also necessary to amend the law because legislation needs to be adapted to the current situation, so that they can manage it. We have never had a pandemic like this in our lives, but you can now have a second examination in an hour, honourable fellow Members. You can improve your performance so far, you can improve the shameful performance you presented last Monday. The Hungarian people expect us to be united and expect the government to act effectively, to resolve this crisis, to prevent the greatest possible effects, to preserve people's health, to try to help as much as possible and to prevent negative effects. This is what the government is asking Parliament to do. And every day, Parliament has the opportunity to take this back from the government. That's what you don't understand, and you don't understand because you didn't read the law, you've spent your time hating the parties and the government. This is not what is needed, it is not a campaign, it is an epidemic, honourable Members. They should finish the campaign mode, we'll be able to hold all our debates when this terrible epidemic is over. We will continue, do not worry, we will have the opportunity, we will have the opportunity to clarify our differences, so that we will discuss our differences and differences in internal policy or foreign policy, but this is not the time, this is not a campaign, but an epidemic, so we are asking you to put aside your petty political games, to side with this law. This law is good, gives the government the strength to take these measures only in connection with the epidemic, and it is shameful when you call for dictatorship when you talk about the coup d'état of Mr.Péter Jakab, that Viktor Orbán wants to overthrow Viktor Orbán, or we do not understand his logic exactly, but we have been used to this before. I ask you to stop these lies, stop trying to break the visible unity around the law at previous negotiations. The overwhelming majority of Hungarian people also support this law, support the government's ability to act decisively and quickly, and, as my fellow Member has mentioned, do not have to turn with all sorts of absolutions and requests to the rectors of universities, to act decisively and quickly, because this is our only chance to slow down the epidemic, this is our only opportunity to contain the virus, if we act quickly, decisively, immediately. In recent days, we have seen the compilations published in the press that Hungary has taken on time, almost all the important measures that it has taken in the European Union, if we add when the first infected patient appeared in that country, we have taken these measures much, much sooner than France, Spain, Italy, the United Kingdom or any other European country. It is necessary to maintain this pace, and it is necessary to maintain this efficiency, this action, and to do so, it is necessary to be firm. And with regard to the verbal rampage of my fellow Member, Mr János Bencsik, I would like to add that I think it is a reassuring fact that the Prime Minister of Hungary has confidence in his face when he fights this crown virus. I am glad that the Prime Minister of Hungary has confidence in his face, and he did not run away from it, he did not try to pass on the task, but took on this task, yes, to the best of his knowledge, he is doing his job with a superhuman effort and fighting the virus. [[14.10]] And it is a shame that you are asking the Hungarian Prime Minister to show confidence in his face here in Parliament, by the way. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] This is how you act effectively, effectively and decisively. You have one hour! Change your mind. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-30-80	Thank you very much, Congressman Nacsa Lőrinc. I give the floor to notary Gergely Arató, Congressman.
u2020-03-30-81	Mr President, Dear House, Let me start with what Congressman Nacsa has concluded: I would prefer to see a mask on the Prime Minister's face rather than self-confidence, which would set an example for the country not to infect each other. [[Intercoms from the benches of the governing parties: neither are you!]] Even if they sit close together, not just like this, remotely. Ladies and gentlemen, [[Dr. Völner turned to Paul:]] I'll take it back here, but you can't hear what you might be happy to hear, but I can't. [[Noise.]] And speaking of which, I would also suggest to Congressman Nacsa that you visit the Facebook page of the Democratic Coalition, which you do not often do, and you will find a number of information material there; only because you have objected and missed this. Let's get back to the bill. What does the government say? It says that this bill is necessary to ensure that the government regulations and measures taken so far are in force. It is clear that there would be three ways in which the opposition would fully support this. One of the solutions would have been to ask for their extension in a separate law, according to the Constitution, pardon, no constitution, according to the Fundamental Law. Secondly, there would have been a way of doing so if these regulations had been re-published and, where appropriate, updated, there would have been no obstacle to this. You chose the third way, because it was the most dramatic and most playable. But they also have the possibility, of course, to be declared under the epidemiological law or proclaimed under the Health Act as epidemiological provisions. I'm sorry, but I must say, fellow Members, that we should not play puppet theatre here. They did that. They did it, they worked it out. They faked what an effort it was and what uncertainty it was, but it wasn't. You knew that we knew that there was a way. But once again, to extend these regulations, whether last Monday, now Monday, Sunday or Thursday, the opposition would have been available at any time. That's not what they're asking for. It's a lot more than that. On the one hand, they ask for authorisation to apply this kind of extension to the government's disposal for an indefinite period of time. We don't know whether we support them or not, because we haven't seen them yet. Let us believe that these will be good, practical and effective. I'm sorry, I understand what Congressman Balla says, that it's written in the law that the measures necessary to control the epidemic can only be taken so who will decide? Well, you're the government. It's necessary for an epidemiology defense that the government thinks is necessary for an epidemiology defense. We've seen what that means. I'm sorry to return to my previous comment: it means the downfall of the theatres, it means the wealth allocated to the Catholic Church, or it just means to tell you a completely different topic, the 17 billion-dollar buy-back of the Mátra Power Plant. All these things the government might think are necessary. [[Intercoms.]] But I would add that we said and this is where the deadline comes in, that we are willing to give this otherwise undeserved trust to the government, so that he can decide what is needed in this situation, but at least we ask him to come back here from time to time in accordance with the basic law and tell us what he has done. That's the question of the deadline! It's not a political show, and don't take out the 4th show right now. If I remember correctly, you will give me information! We know what it means: either give or don't give, and either Parliament or the leader of the faction as he pleases! No, dear fellow Members. Bring him here for a worthy decision, in front of Parliament. You'll take your vote on what you think of these, and we'll take it. And indeed, the opposition was extremely flexible in this. All sorts of suggestions have been made here. There was also one that said that if Parliament cannot meet, then it should automatically be extended if the House Committee says so, where consensus is needed, right? We also said that it's okay that if we're scared anyway, then let's make it possible for Parliament to meet online. So we are interested in any solution that maintains parliamentary control over the government. Because, by the way, the basis of the rule of law is that it is not in the good intentions of the government that it considers right, but there is a kind of constitutional control over it. We are not protected from unlimited power by trusting the government because, by the way, we have extremely little confidence, but by the fact that there is ex post approval under the provisions of the Fundamental Law and authorisation to do so. And let's be honest, let me give you another example. The Fidesz mayors have shown abundantly that you don't have much faith in this. What do they say about the Btk amendment? Same thing. We do not say that the opposition press is making false allegations. It's not like that. It's just that we're not going to decide, and you're not going to decide, I mean, Parliament, but the prosecutor's office, and the police that you run. [[Dr. Pál Völner: The Court!]] And we've seen what that means over the years. And, of course, in the end, the court will decide three, four, five years from now, by the time the opposition press is destroyed. We've seen these lawsuits, Mr. Fapal case, dear Secretary of State, to give you just one example, and many of them. There's been a lot of them. It is possible to destroy people, destroy the remaining free media on the basis of this legislation. And of course, who knows how successful they will be in the next two or three or four years by occupying the courts, which they are making a serious effort to do. Thank you for being more honest with Mr Harghitai than the others, and for referring to the aim of ensuring ideal conditions for the government. Dear fellow Members, My apologies, we do not want to give the government the ideal conditions, but we want to give the country the ideal conditions in this situation as well. And a large part of the country is afraid that the government will be given uncontrolled power, especially if it is given uncontrolled time. Let me tell you, though, that everyone here is referring to all kinds of surveys, let me tell you that 106,000 people have signed the petition that protests this in a few days. It's not the majority of the country, but if there's 106,000 people standing in Kossuth Square because you can, you'll be forced to see them, too. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Is that all there is?]] And don't wash it up, I ask you again that we support the government's specific measures by giving you unlimited authority, by the way. But please disprove me. I'll be the happiest! Vote for any opposition amendment. If you really do not want to use this law for unlimited power, then vote for this mandate to be on time! If you really think that the control of the Constitutional Court is important, then you should vote for the amendment that orders the Constitutional Court to decide on such constitutional complaints within a reasonable period of time. If you really don't want to use the Btk. amendment to regulate the press, then leave now and agree on a better text. The door's still open! If you really want unity, you're still in charge of this. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Consider the opposition's comments, and you will have unity! Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-03-30-82	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an applicant; the debate is closed... [[On the sign of György Balla:]] For two minutes, Congressman György Balla, Fidesz. [[György Balla: Excuse me, Mr President, I wanted to press a normal button, but the system in this room is not working perfectly.]]
u2020-03-30-83	Then you will have a normal speech, here you are, Congressman György Balla.
u2020-03-30-84	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Congressman Harvester, I would have liked to have at least mentioned the great Facebook appearances of one of your leading activists, who is talking about Gergely Homonnay, if anyone didn't know - on his Facebook page you can see that he is hugging Ferenc Gyurcsány, and who, by the way, is discussing how he wants to catch the coronal virus epidemic and then go into various media, coughing on everyone there, and then the Fidesz fraction and the government. And in his next entry, a known figure of the immensely Democratic Coalition discusses that it is enough for a fidesz to catch the coronal virus epidemic, and we already have two-thirds, which is why we have to fight. That's what you think of democracy. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Go!]] He also talks about voting on any opposition amendment, and then he believes us. Honourable Congressman, I would like to announce that today we are going to vote in favour of the amendment that was requested at the second hearing, which was also presented to you by Mr Lóránt Keresztes, and he acknowledged that we have adopted the amendment on necessity and proportionality. [[14.20]] We have therefore adopted and will vote on an opposition amendment. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] And I hear Mr Tordai's excellent comment that it doesn't require anything, and what I don't understand is why they asked for it then. But by the way, we've accepted it, and we think it's binding, as it does every word of this bill. Congressman Arato told me not to speak on the 4th floor. It may be because it didn't get that far, but I don't think it got to 1. This is what you asked us to do: that if we've already given the government such authority, at least the government should report it. That's four. and he says that the government is obliged to report regularly to Parliament, therefore, not as he thinks, or, if this is not clearly possible, that this means that Parliament is not able to meet, then all seven faction leaders. Obviously, reporting also means asking questions there, getting answers. The Prime Minister has reported every single time in the last two weeks, although he has not been bound by law, and today the Foreign Minister has reported it. After all, what is the reason for this mistrust? It is not by chance, honourable Members, that you have been speaking in Parliament for at least six years, but perhaps eight, constantly spilt of hatred, constantly extorting hatred against the government and the Fidesz, and, unfortunately, this hatred has resulted? Not with your constituents, with a small group of them, but you're meeting them on Facebook. When they talk about how many people are writing to you and how many people don't want such a mandate, they drink the juice of their own splattering hatred because that's what they get back. The reason people are distrustful, I say once again, is that I think very few compared to the entire Hungarian population, because that is what you have planted in them. As I see it, unlike you, unlike Mr Bertalan Tóth, who spoke earlier about the fact that 3 million people do not trust the government that there is no such thing. He's obviously referring to the supposed 3 million opposition voters. What I see is that people trust the government today, trust the government's actions, not on a political basis, and make no mistake. I'm not saying that they're Fidesz voters, by the way, but that, unlike you, they think normally, and they don't want to approach an epidemic on a party-political basis, but they want to approach it by trusting those who can do it alone so that this fight against the epidemic is controlled. They trust doctors, trust health care, unlike Peter James's comment three weeks ago, trust the operational tribe, trust the chief of staff, and trust the government's regulations. If they didn't trust me, they wouldn't accept it. But thanks to God and thanks to these people, they follow these instructions, they're not happy about this, they're uncomfortable to everyone, but people are confident that this will make the plague curve flattenable, that it won't cause such a problem. Everyone knows it's gonna be a big problem, but everyone's gonna help us fight back. I have to say, everyone in this country is helping to defend themselves, except the Hungarian parliamentary opposition. Congratulations, fellow Members. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-85	Thank you, Congressman Balla. I give the floor to Bence of Turdai, a representative of the Dialogue.
u2020-03-30-86	Excuse me, I do not want to respond to the continuing lies of fellow Members with Fidesz, but I would just like to announce that we would like to pass on the remaining time frame to the LMP fraction. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-30-87	Thank you very much. Obviously, the head of the LMP faction wants to live with that. Then press the button. You have the floor, László László Keresztes, Leader of the Group.
u2020-03-30-88	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President, and thank you very much for the opportunity for Tordai Bence. Mr. Congressman, what you said in your last sentence was basically killing everything you said here at the Parliament meeting today. This is an humiliation of the authority of the Parliament to say that everyone in this country is defending but the opposition! This is outrageous! But by the way, that says a lot of things, Congressman, about your attitude. The opposition representatives, the opposition factions, know exactly what you are talking about, that it is important here to show people that at least in this epidemiological situation, party policy thinking can be put aside. And you've proved with this one week of shocking propaganda, smearing campaign, the abusive Facebook entries that you've prepared in advance that you didn't think for a minute that you were honest, you didn't mean for a minute. But, Congressman, indeed, as you said, hope will die last, and I will try to convince you that a single opposition amendment for a period of time will be adopted, and then, with full consensus, with the vote of the entire opposition, the Parliament will adopt the bill introducing the extraordinary legal order. At the conciliation, Mr President, a number of amendments have indeed been accepted from the opposition, one from me, but this debate has not been discussed. I put a very great emphasis on presenting the proposal that was asked for today, and today the first amendment will be in the vote, which would lead to a period of time in the establishment of a special legal order by treating the situation in a very carefully legally codified text if, after 90 days, the Hungarian Parliament was not able to meet. And we didn't even agree with the House Committee here, because this proposal says that if, in 90 days' time, the epidemiological situation still exists on the basis of WHO's measures, and the President of the Republic, the Speaker of Parliament and the President of the Constitutional Court unanimously state that Parliament is unable to meet, then this extraordinary legal order can be extended by 30 days, and automatically by 30-30 days, as long as the government needs. That's all I ask of you. This is indeed the idea of an excellent legal expert, and what you are saying is that in 90 days' time the Parliament may not be able to make this decision, it will address this problem. I would like to ask your opinion on this, and I can say that the opposition parties are also speaking to each other, that if you accept this amendment, I will not guarantee that there will be a complete consensus, but I am sure that the LMP faction will vote in favour of the bill on the introduction of an extraordinary legal order. You have your chance. We have answered all the arguments you have made, this amendment has been asked to vote, and in an hour's time we can now vote on this, and you have this option in your hands. If this amendment is voted in favour, I guarantee that the LMP faction will vote in favour of the bill, and in addition to the fact that these measures... by the way, many important measures can be taken, but we can send a message to the Hungarian society that, yes, in this epidemiological situation, the parties were able to sit down with each other and form a consensus. And it will be necessary that, indeed, in the extremely serious epidemiological situation, the very, very, very restrictive and shockingly hard measures that are expected to be needed will be borne by the population, and, with such a broad consensus, these measures will be effective, in addition to the suspension of party policy debates. Thank you very much for this opportunity, thank you once again to the Group of Dialogue, and I would very much ask my fellow members of the Government to consider this possibility. Now the ball is bouncing in your court, and you have the opportunity to create the national consensus and compromise that you are saying. This is your chance, and I very much hope that in the next half hour, which is back about until the vote, you will re-evaluate this. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-30-89	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. I would like to ask again that someone else wants to take the opportunity to speak in the remaining timeframes. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, State Secretary, who responded to what was said in the debate on behalf of the rapporteur. [[14.30]]
u2020-03-30-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Over the past few years, we have heard a lot about the positions that have taken place during the detailed debate, and I thank you for the activity. What I was not happy about, however, was that the positions were not approaching as the spirit or text of the law would allow. It was a recurring element in the speeches by opposition parties that the government would be given a power here that had no time limit. It has also been said in other speeches that it is very precisely stated that this situation can only be maintained until the epidemiological emergency exists, so if someone says that the epidemic threat will never go away, or this epidemiological situation itself, then it would indeed be true that there is no limit to the story, but, as the beginning has been adapted to an epidemiological situation, the end will be adapted to it, and if this condition is met, then practically Parliament will meet, decide on the regulations made, and the law will subsequently expire. Which is also a problem for you to think is that the government would be doing its work without control during this period. I would also repeat in the bill that the government will report to Parliament until it meets, if Parliament does not meet, then it will report to the leaders of the parliamentary parties and report on the measures taken. So to say that the government would continue its activities without any control and without reporting in this difficult situation, this is not real. It's a question of mistrust. This is indeed the key situation, as you have put it. Practically with the measures introduced, it seems that the public has confidence in the measures, there is confidence in the government, and that is exactly what you are afraid of, and that you want to start a mistrust debate to erod this confidence above 80 percent, and to make it look like a dictatorial rule of law is being introduced here, although the whole series of measures is only aimed at improving the effectiveness of defence. Which, of course, is not uncommon... My fellow Member György Balla also pointed out that when this situation is over, what we will face from you. I remember very well the speech by Mr András Schiffer, Head of the Group, when in 2015 he said that the situation presented by the government was not real, and then, when the migration flood was visible during the autumn period, he was the only one standing up in Parliament and revisiting these views. This opportunity will also be open to you, and I recommend it to your attention. As regards the meeting of the House: indeed, in the epidemiological situation, no one today dares say that in 60 days, 90 days or even 120 days from now, my fellow Member Balczó would have said that this situation would be over, but it may also end within this period, which would allow a shorter period of time for this period to actually be accounted for. It has also been said that there is no need for this whole story, because practically the government has the right to establish a regulation. You are not telling me that if the government kept extending these regulations every 15 days, then what constitutional crisis you would be talking about and abusive exercise of rights; we have seen an example of this in recent years. My colleague Andrea Varga-Damm commented that he did not see a series of measures included in the Disaster Protection Act. We're dealing with something else. Such an epidemiological situation has not been in the country for almost a hundred years, since the Spanish flu, then of course there were epidemiological isolations and hospitals in all settlements, and the past period has eliminated it, and we have just faced such a problem, and we need to adapt legislation to that. We have just brought this law before Parliament, which expresses the fact that without Parliament's opinion, the government does not want to go further, and I cannot help it if the opposition parties do not interpret it that way and do not see it that way. There were also political advantages. I can say that we do not need political advantage on the part of the government or government parties at this cost. We did not cause this epidemiological situation, we have to solve it, as Prime Minister said, and we are ready for this, and we are very sorry that we are not being supported. My fellow Member, Mr Lőrinc Nacsa, mentioned the international scam campaign that was launched against the country. All I can say is that it is a shameful fact that there are still forces in this country who are trying to solve the situation in Brussels or Strasbourg, Luxembourg or other places, not in Moscow, that the electorate has honoured the majority of governments with their trust and not you. I think you're on the wrong path if this continues. My colleague Gergely Arató spoke of a puppet theatre. We also see the puppet theatre, and we see Ferenc Gyurcsány moving the puppets. We are very sorry that this man has been entrusted with your political future. As far as the right to establish a decree is concerned, the Parliament must not give the authority to do so, it has already done so in the Fundamental Law when the Fundamental Law was adopted. My fellow Member, György Balla, pointed out that we have succeeded in including the issue of proportionality in this draft law. Once again, e-voting and other ideas have been mentioned earlier in the context of Parliament's sitting. The Fundamental Law only provides for Parliament's decisions to be taken by the votes of the Members present. There is a reference to the fact that Parliament may meet at other locations, but obviously this concept is not created on virtual space. Speaking of opposition, what can the opposition do? The opposition, as a representative, could practically do so by making a decision in Parliament. There's a choice ahead of you, and you can change your mind for the next few minutes or half an hour. Thank you very much for your attention and for your support for the bill. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-91	Thank you very much, Secretary of State Völner. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken on this day. Now I'm going to take a break for 14 hours and 45 minutes, and then we'll continue our work with decisions. (Recess: 14.36-14.50) President: Dr. János Latorcai Note: József Móring Attila and Gergely Arató)
u2020-03-30-92	Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! I welcome you all with love. We are now continuing our work with the decisions on the agenda. Please take your seats. Dear Parliament, Before we begin the voting procedure, we will have a presence check to verify the functioning of the voting machines. Please press one of the buttons of your voting machine. [[Attendance check.]] As you can see, 191 Members are present, 8 are away. So the Parliament... [[For signal:]] I'd like my colleagues to have the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office reset his computer. [[It's happening.]] [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] I'd like my colleagues to have the Minister of the Prime Minister's Office reset his computer. (It's happening.) And I would also like to reshape the Secretary of State of András Tállai. (To be indicated:) And see if Minister Michael Varga is okay. Thank you very much. So the horseshoe is fine. (To be indicated:) I'd like to ask the Secretary of State of Tallai to sit in his seat. But if it doesn't work for anyone, please raise your hand at the vote. The notaries will verify that and add it to the votes. In order to facilitate the educational tasks performed by Pázmány Péter Catholic University, the T/9474 on the free distribution of assets to the Hungarian Catholic Bishop's Conference follows. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. Since the bill also contains provisions requiring a qualified majority, I must inform you in advance that if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote, the House Rule 50 shall apply. In the absence of a separate decision pursuant to paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 of Section 3 of this Article, it also covers the withdrawal of the provision referring to the fundamentality of the provisions not adopted. Therefore, in the final vote in this case, we no longer have to decide on this among the provisions requiring a simple majority. T/9474/4 and T/9474/5. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. We are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. In view of the fact that a qualified majority is necessary for the adoption of points 2 and 4, the decision shall be taken in two instalments. First, we decide on the part requiring a qualified majority, the adoption of which requires a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9474/4. Point 2 and point 4 of the consolidated amendment proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote now. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the points requiring a qualified majority of the summary amendment by 158 votes in favour, 19 against and 17 abstentions. We are now deciding on further points in the summary amendment that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9474/4. Additional points requiring a simple majority of the proposed amendment. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the additional points of the summary amendment which require a simple majority by 157 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 18 abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9474/6. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority by 158 votes in favour, 20 against and 15 abstentions. We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9474/6. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 158 votes in favour, 21 against and 14 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, Next up is the T/9790 on coronal virus control. Decision and final vote on the proposal for a summary amendment submitted to the legislative proposal No. I would remind you that, according to Parliament's decision last week, the bill will be discussed in an urgent hearing by Parliament. Since the bill also contains provisions requiring a qualified majority, I must inform you in advance that if Parliament does not adopt a provision requiring a qualified majority in the final vote, the House Rule 50 shall apply. In the absence of a separate decision pursuant to paragraph 3 of paragraph 3 of Section 3 of this Article, it also covers the withdrawal of the provision referring to the fundamentality of the provisions not adopted. Therefore, in this case, we will not decide on this in the final vote between the provisions requiring a simple majority. T/9790/15 and T/9790/16. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that the house rule is 48. Under paragraph 4 of Section 4, the LMP Group proposed amendments No 10, 11 and 12, the DK Group proposed amendment No 9, the MSZP Group proposed Amendment No 4 and the Jobbik Group proposed that amendments No 5, 6 and 7. That's what we're gonna decide first. Amendment 10 is proposed by Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 134 votes against and 1 abstention. Amendment 11 is also proposed by Mr László Keresztes, Mr Lóránt Group leader. A qualified majority is required to maintain the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 56 votes in favour, 134 votes against and 1 abstention. [[15.00]] Amendment 12 is also proposed by Mr László Keresztes, Mr Lóránt Group leader. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 55 votes in favour, 134 against and 3 abstentions. Amendment 9 is proposed by Ferenc Gyurcsány and his fellow Members. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] A qualified majority is required to maintain the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 58 votes in favour, 133 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 4 is proposed by Bertalan Tóth and his fellow Members. A qualified majority is required to maintain the proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 134 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 5 is proposed by Members László György Lukács and Andrea Varga-Damm. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain this proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 133 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 6 is the motion of Members László György Lukács and Andrea Varga-Damm. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 133 against and 1 abstention. Amendment 7 is also proposed by Members László György Lukács and Andrea Varga-Damm. I ask the Honourable Parliament to maintain the proposal. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament did not maintain the amendment by 57 votes in favour, 134 against and 1 abstention. As the Parliament has not maintained an amendment, we are now deciding on the summary amendment proposal. I ask the Honourable Parliament, the Legislative Committee accepts T/9790/15. A summary of the amendment proposed by the European Parliament and the Council. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the summary amendment by 138 votes in favour, 53 against and without abstentions. It is now the final vote. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Fundamental Law sets out the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. They shall be adopted by a vote in favour of two thirds of the Members of Parliament present. In view of this, the final vote will take place in two instalments. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9790/21. The provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a qualified majority 137 yes [ by vote, 53 against, without abstention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, We are now deciding on the provisions of the single proposal that require a simple majority. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept T/9790/21. The provisions of the single proposal, which require a simple majority. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: Parliament adopted the provisions of the single proposal requiring a simple majority by 138 votes in favour, 53 against and without abstention. Next up is 5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of Parliament. A decision to amend a decision. S/9885 put forward by the President We've all been able to get to know about the website. I now ask Mr József Attila Móring to present the content of the personal proposal put forward by the President. Here you go, notary.
u2020-03-30-93	5/2018 on the establishment of committees, election of officials and members of the Parliament Section 1 of the Parliamentary Decision No. 1 is amended as follows:. Parliament shall elect Dr. Brenner Koloman, Jobbik, instead of Balczó Zoltán, Jobbik, as a member of the committee. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Point 3:. This Decision shall enter into force upon its adoption. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
u2020-03-30-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Dear Parliament, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept S/9885. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament adopted the personal proposal with 190 votes in favour, no votes against, with 3 abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, We've reached the end of the decisions. Now I'm ordering a short technical break. [[It's a short break.]] Now I respectfully ask my fellow Members to take their seats so that we can continue our work. [[It's happening.]] Dear Parliament, It's 15:08. We're moving to immediate questioning. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Jakab and Ms Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Mr. Peter James will ask the question. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor. [[Gergely Harvesto is replaced by Bence Tordai in the notary seat.]]
u2020-03-30-95	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, In November 2018, I had a speech here in Parliament. [[There's a grumble in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Then I told you that, indeed, the Hungarian people are worried about the low water level of the Danube, because in the end it will freeze, and you will be able to crown yourself. Then you replied that you have no such intention, given that coronation is prohibited by the Constitution. [[15.10]] The thing is, Prime Minister, that is still the case, it still forbids you, but that doesn't bother you. Prime Minister, when did you lose your judgment? We already know that you can make fun of the Hungarian rule of law at any time. We've always known that the Merry Christmas! At any time, it is able to humiliate the Hungarian Parliament. But we never thought that one day he would be able to legislate his own coronation, and that is exactly what they have done in the last few minutes when you, by referring to an emergency, had yourself voted for unlimited power with 133 of the most cowardly Hungarians behind you for an unlimited period of time. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Prime Minister! Health workers sweat blood every day to save Hungarians without protective equipment. Law enforcement workers work overtime from morning to night so that foreigners can't come in and infect us at our borders. In the shops, they pack the goods day and night, so there's bread and canned food on the table. And in this situation, instead of saving the country, can you save your own power? ! You're wondering how you can ignore Parliament. [[Intercom from the government's ranks: Prankster!]] How can you remain in power without a choice, Prime Minister? ! What you have done today against the Hungarian nation is extremely vile. There's no excuse for that, Prime Minister. There's medicine for it, it's called a conscience, but you don't have one. So from here on out, I have one question: how can you look in the mirror? I'm waiting for your answer. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties. Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-30-96	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. The personal content of this speech significantly exceeded the framework that should be characteristic of the Hungarian Parliament. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] I would ask the Prime Minister to answer what is necessary to respond to this.
u2020-03-30-97	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind everyone that in the previous moments there has been no constitutional amendment in Hungary, and consequently the coronation, the kingdom and other issues are still not allowed by the Constitution. However, there is an emergency, which I can briefly tell you, in support of the seriousness of the situation, that we have 15 deceased, 5 women, 10 men, an average age of 72 years. There are 447 infected Hungarians, there are 16 of them who are severely ill, there are 103 people who are not in need of treatment, but who are confirmed to be infected, and there are 279 asymptomatic carriers. I will also inform the Parliament that the hospital capacities required for their care, including doctors and nurses, have been put in order. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-98	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from the faction leader. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-99	You see, Prime Minister, in order to deal with this emergency, it does not require unlimited power, but protection or financial assistance, for families in distress. Do you know what we were supposed to vote on here today? About setting up a job security fund; about introducing a moratorium on payment of accounts; or about spending more on screening tests so that we can stop this damn virus in Hungary. That is what we should have decided today, but instead today we had to decide on your power obsession because after ten years, you saw the time coming to quarantine democracy. Because that's exactly what happened today. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: This is the lyrics of Klára Dobrev! You're imitating Dobrev Klara!]] Prime Minister, you have quarantined the freedom of the Hungarian people, not for two weeks, but for as long as your sense of danger so desires. Prime Minister! Do you know what the most dangerous virus is? [[Intercoms from the ruling parties: You! The Jobbik!]] The one who wants to live on the body of the nation for an unlimited period of time. But calm down, the immune system of the Hungarian nation is stronger than you think. We will defeat not only the virus, but also the crown. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-30-100	For a one-minute rejoinder, I give the floor to the Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I would just like to say that we will use the powers necessary to remedy the emergency and to eliminate its consequences in a proportionate and reasonable way. Those who suspect us today of abuse of all kinds of power will see that at the end of the emergency, when you decide to do so, we will give back all the powers completely, and those who have said things like you today will have a chance to apologize to us. Thank you very much. [[A long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-30-102	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Member Tamás Harangozó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question with the title: "Ongoing issues." Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-03-30-103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, so be it. I think it is in the interests of the whole country that what you have just said really comes to this; it does not come from the law. Prime Minister, you have now been given full authority to combat the virus, and more than that, because you have been given a free hand in the economic field. I would like to get a very specific answer to four questions from you. With this power, this authority, I would like to ask you: In the health and social sector, the opposition has also asked for a 100% wage increase, but at least the one-off HUF 500,000 allowance proposed by the MSZP will be taken so that these people can fight for our countrymen in financial peace? Would you like to advance the pension supplement for pensioners due in November so that those who are now quarantined or at least fair, following the rules at home alone, can live and receive a 6.5 percent pension increase now? In order to keep jobs, Prime Minister, you are willing to pay 50-80 percent of your wages... these are what we see here in Central Europe and in all other countries, so that the budget will take over in companies, people, where production slows down or stops, so that they don't lose their jobs. So you're willing to get away with paying wages from the central budget during this transitional period, just not getting people on the street? Finally, who is already on the street, Prime Minister, because do not deny it, there are already tens of thousands of them, and according to your prognosis there will be hundreds of thousands of them, and for them the lowest amount for the three months is currently HUF 38 thousand net, will you be willing to see that this cannot be made a living and that you cannot recover from it? So you're willing to raise this allowance, as the MSZP suggests, to 100,000 forints, and if necessary, to raise this allowance in time? I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2020-03-30-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-03-30-105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, Here's the thing. On 6 or 7 April, I hope and expect to present the biggest, most comprehensive and powerful economic growth and recovery plan in Hungary's history, in which we will address all the issues. In the meantime, I'm gonna need your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-106	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr Tamás Harangozó, is the subject of the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-107	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, I'm not sure we understand the same thing, at least in terms of the economic recovery program, let's say, the income of pensioners. I'm not sure we understand the same thing about an economic recovery programme and what I asked you to do to be kind enough to supplement your salary for those who would lose their jobs compared to the neighbouring countries. Obviously, until April 6th, there's a lot of time left in the lives of many, many families. I think he could have said yes or no to these questions; I think he already has something in his head. Finally, one last question, Prime Minister. In your proposal, proposed by your government, the economic stability of the country is also included as an important factor in the emergency. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, whether it is possible that, after the end of the health epidemic, this type of emergency, which has now been decided, will be extended or maintained solely because of economic measures. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
u2020-03-30-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Prime Minister has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-109	Thank you very much. According to Parliament's decision today, I am not in a position to extend anything, given that today the government has restored to Parliament the power to order and eliminate an emergency. You will decide when the emergency is over, not me and not the government. When Parliament decides that the emergency is over, Parliament takes a decision on this and the government takes note of this. Today, we have not taken away the right from Members of Parliament, but the government has given the Members of Parliament, including opposition representatives, the government's right to establish an emergency and to establish an end. [[15.20]] So my answer: when Parliament decides that the emergency is over, then everything is over, and life returns to the normal order of law and regulation. By the way, so far, if you will allow me to inform this House, we have spent 225 billion forints on defense equipment, preparation, disease-hospital construction. 225 billion forints! Don't spend the money you don't have yet, because we also have to make efforts to defend ourselves so that the money we need is available. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-30-110	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Gergely Arató and Ágnes Vadai, representatives of DK, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Congressman Gergely Arató, notary of Parliament, has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-111	Dear House, Prime Minister! Let me begin by saying that you are probably not well informed of your colleagues, because both Minister Gulyás and Secretary of State Völner have recently said in Parliament that the emergency is ordered by the Government under the Fundamental Law and that only the government can eliminate it. That hasn't changed. So you didn't give me anything back, and you still have it. I'd like to ask you about another colleague. The Minister of Health, after he was told that he had not organized the care of the doctors in due time with adequate protective equipment, and so many people were infected and made inappropriate statements, resigned, and Prime Minister Orban thanked and accepted the resignation. This was not in Hungary, but in Romania. What about us? You have told Congressman James that we are available by all means and ready to treat patients with the coronal virus. I have to say I wish I did, but the facts don't prove it. Among other things, a Crown Virus patient was treated for four days at John's Hospital without protective equipment. Doctors and nurses were quarantined from Uzoki Hospital. Last released on 17 March, the number of medical workers in quarantine was 45, and since then the press has not been answered in this case. GPs are also infected because of the lack of protective equipment. In addition, today the whole country is talking about your system not working. The test doesn't get to those with coronal viral symptoms in time. The latest story was a 67 - year - old man who waited for days to test it and then went to the hospital in a very serious state. I'm gonna have to ask you how much longer that trust's gonna last. Because the real heroes are not the pro-government and not the opposition representatives, but those who are really fighting the disease in health care. These real heroes, however, go to battle without weapons, supplies, or battle plans. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: Don't lie!]] Who is responsible for this, Prime Minister, and draws conclusions? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the DK benches.]]
u2020-03-30-112	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán for the answer. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-03-30-113	Mr. President. Our fellow Member has touched on a number of important details, and I am not sure that they all fit into my two-minute response time. The issue of constitutional law: therefore, any action taken in the event of an emergency is and will live until Parliament decides to do so. I would like to make it clear that everyone calms down, calm down, that the government powers associated with the emergency are not a threat to you or democracy. As far as testing is concerned, there are many types of virus tests, the safest thing I can talk about at all, because it gives me such results that you can rely on that laboratory test. This is done in seven designated laboratories in Hungary as recommended by WHO. We've been measuring, testing, and we're still gonna do that. If you look at the patterns of the neighbouring countries and the partial data that can be read from them, you can see that they show about the same thing as they do in Hungary. Specifically, 13 301 laboratory tests have been carried out by this morning, and we will continue to measure them at the same rate and rate as the WHO recommends. As far as the question was concerned in time, how, after the first infected case, we made our decisions: from the first infected, the announcement of the emergency in Hungary on day 7 and the 38th day in Italy. Prohibition of school visits: 12 days in Hungary, 21 days in Austria, 34 days in Italy. Close entertainment places: 13th day in Hungary, France 54th, Spain 44th day. Banning events: Hungary Day 7, Austria Day 14. Border lock: Hungary Day 13, Austria Day 24, France Day 56. Believe me, we have nothing to be ashamed of. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-30-114	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. One-minute rejoinder, Gergely Harvester. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-03-30-115	Mr. Prime Minister, We've heard this propaganda text a lot of times, and it's a little bit of a problem. This doesn't matter to the first infected, it matters to the first infected who was tested and you admitted to being infected. That's a big difference, because you're talking about not being able to test a large part of the infected by this method. [[Intercoms, including, "Micphone." The speaker's words are hard to hear.]] At the same time, it should be said that it is no coincidence that in your PR video you can see enthusiastic football fans and not enthusiastic doctors and enthusiastic nurses. You have done much more for Hungarian football than for Hungarian health care, but now there is a greater need for health care. Once again, I would like to ask you: do you not think that in order to restore confidence, it would be right to replace the Minister of Health, which represents your failing policy, with someone who can be trusted by health workers and the public? Thank you very much.
u2020-03-30-116	Thank you very much. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-03-30-117	Although I have vowed not to be provoked, but since the Member has just written with such a vitriol pen, I would like to remind you that you represent a former governing party here in Parliament. This former governing party has been ruling for a long time, making decisions, making health decisions. I'm looking at these for a short time. They wanted to create a paid health care that could only be prevented by a referendum. Resources were withdrawn from health care, over 650 billion. Now they're demanding a raise, but when they were on the government, they took a month's wages from health workers. A debt of HUF 130 billion was collected at hospitals, and no new ambulances were acquired at the National Rescue Service from 2008 to 2010. When you steered, nearly 600 small drugstores went bankrupt. I suggest that when we are attacked, you be kind in front of him and see what you have done and use it as a standard against us. We're using different standards against ourselves, but unfortunately, that's the only standard we can accept from you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-30-118	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr László Lóránt Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who is responsible, Prime Minister? It's an address. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-03-30-119	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a very specific question about the possibility of defence; a question that has been raised by many mayors and mayors of large cities. This question is of such importance that it is important that I ask this directly to you. We know that local governments have a special responsibility and responsibility in terms of defence, we can say, the first bastions of defense. The government has also handed over new tasks to the municipalities in recent weeks. The municipalities have stated that they feel that they have not received adequate resources and resources in parallel, and that the government has left the municipalities a little behind. But there has also been a very important criticism and signal from many, many mayors that basic information is not available to municipalities. The fact is, in particular, that the mayor of a big town in the country cannot know how many patients there are, how many certified patients there are and how many people they care for. This is extremely important, these basic information is very important for basic municipal decisions. A municipality must decide on the launch of Community transport services, the launch, maintenance of different basic public services, the maintenance of institutions, and also make very important economic decisions by the municipalities and inform the public accordingly. A rural mayor, the mayor of a big city, specifically stated that this lack of information involves fundamental decision-making errors, decision-making errors that will be measured in basically human lives. Prime Minister, I sent a letter to the government to re-evaluate this situation and to give the mayors the right information. [[15.30]] These rural mayors are members of the county defense committees, and they still don't have the information. Are you willing to reevaluate this situation with the government and give us the information? And if not, who will take responsibility for the extremely serious decision-making errors that this situation currently carries? Thank you very much in advance.
u2020-03-30-120	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-03-30-121	Dear fellow Member, I can't think of anything better than the current system. I realize that there may be bumps in it, but we've set up defense committees to have a place where people in public with local responsibility, information responsibility, decision responsibility and responsibility are where things are. It's the defense committee everywhere. I have in my hand, for example, the composition of the Metropolitan Defence Committee, of which I read Mayor Gergely Christmas is also a member. So if there's information that's even available, it's all in the Protection Committees, the more information I can't give anyone, given that the operational tribe works every morning from reports coming from the Defence Committees. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-122	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is the word of the faction leader. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-123	Thank you, Mr. President. Unfortunately, the situation doesn't look like this, Prime Minister. In particular, mayors of county-righted cities are members of county defense committees, and in such a capacity they do not receive the basic information about how many people are sick and how many people are treated in a given city, and they cannot use this information for extremely important decisions. These mayors also turned to the government offices, and they didn't get any information from there. The operational tribe was also contacted, also in order to make a responsible decision, but did not receive an answer from the operational tribe. That's why I turned to the government. I think that there is no debate in the fact that it is important that these essential information be available to the mayors, so I ask Prime Minister that the government review the situation and give the operational tribe an instruction to make this information available to the mayors. Thank you.
u2020-03-30-124	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-03-30-125	Mr Congressman, I understand what you said, and I will endeavour to enable the Defence Committees to provide wider information to those living there and those working on that committee. That's what I thought, but maybe that's where I'm wrong, that mayors always know more than representatives of the state. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-126	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What's going on?" It's an address. I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Turdai. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, You're trying to make it look like you're taking quick and effective measures. Compared to this, around us, in Central Europe, where the epidemic practically reached at the same time, Poland announced a package of 9 percent of GDP economic recovery and saving social stakeholders. Compared to that, you have just said that only 225 billion are used to defend it. This is half the GDP so far. But let's see how this is about earning a living. In the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania, companies closing up due to the crisis, the state makes up for the loss of wages of between 75 and 80 percent. This is specific, accurate data. The question you did not answer to Mr Tamás Harangozó, Deputy Head of the Group [[It's constant noise.]] To make up for these incomes in Hungary, Mr. Speaker, a little more respect, okay? I ask you very nicely to preserve the dignity of this House. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] So let the government and the parliamentary majority undertake to provide this income replacement for those who lose their jobs, or even temporarily send them on leave. Will you undertake to raise your unemployment benefit back for a period of at least 9 months? Do you agree that all those whose income is below HUF 100,000 will receive a supplement up to this level, will introduce in Hungarian the basic fund of crisis management income proposed by the Dialogue, which guarantees parents an income of HUF 100,000 for adults and HUF 50,000 for each child? That's the question, and that's what the answers are long overdue for. The fact that, in the second week of April, or as we have now learned, the answer will be very late on the 6th of April, the people and families in distress have already started to be saved everywhere in Central Europe. When can we expect this in Hungary? Thank you.
u2020-03-30-128	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-129	Your Honour, Mr. President. First of all, I repeat that on 6 or 7 April, we hope to present, as a result of his successful work, the greatest economic recovery plan in Hungary's history. That's what we're working on. My fellow bellsman is indeed right, we have a lot of this in mind, but we are talking about numbers, we are talking about serious items, we are talking about a budget, let us inform the country's public opinion and you about it in a united manner and at the same time. In any case, I can tell you a few words about your direction. I can say for sure, especially as a man who has sat here in Parliament for 30 years, and I remember every debate, I remember every debate about this issue, and it sounded like he should give it to all Hungarian people without any performance, as you propose 100 thousand forints and 50 thousand forints for every child, and if we calculate where it goes and how it goes in the country, then it is certainly a good suggestion. We have had this debate here in the Hungarian Parliament for quite a long time. Every Hungarian can figure out what this is about, and what that would mean. Therefore, as a result of the common wisdom of the last thirty years, we have come to the conclusion that every farm management package, crisis management measure and action plan should aim to ensure that people have a job and a decent wage. I can tell you that the biggest economic recovery plan in Hungary's history will result in everyone having a job in Hungary. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-130	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-131	You surprised me, Prime Minister. So it guarantees full employment during the crisis, if I understand correctly. It's obviously nonsense. I don't understand what performance you expect of children who are supposed to learn and the state to support parents in raising children. I don't understand the performance of a man who loses his job. Hundreds of thousands of these, the minister sitting next to you said we could expect hundreds of thousands of new unemployed, so these people need some kind of care. I don't know what your philosophy is, who doesn't work, don't eat, and then the one who loses his job will starve to death. [[An uproar on the pro-government side.]] This would lead to an infinitely inhuman, unjust, unfair society. [[There's a lot of noise on the pro-government side.]] I'm sure you didn't think of that either. The only question now is that the EU will give 2 000 billion to the people and the thousands of billions that the central bank can produce directly by making money, it will give to the Hungarian people, families, businesses and municipalities.
u2020-03-30-132	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to the Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-03-30-133	I would like to reiterate that as a result of our economic action plan, I did not say that immediately, but as a result, everyone will have a job. If that wasn't enough collateral, I'd like to summon reality. The reality is that in 2010 there was 12 percent unemployment in Hungary. Even then, I have undertaken to create a million jobs in ten years. They were just laughing at us. And the fact is that in Hungary we have approached, perhaps we have reached a state where we could say that whoever wanted to work had a job. Believe me, we're going to present an action plan that helps people earn money through work and helps them live through work. Today, one of your party partners in Brussels has found that I quote him: "Let's not forget, it's a relatively harmless epidemic. Then he also said to Benedek Jávor that this is now a relatively inexpensive warning,, this is a relatively harmless, inexpensive epidemic. [[It's an uproar.]] Make a consensus with each other, please. [[A big round of applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-134	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I would ask my fellow Members to remain calm. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Gabriella Selmeczi, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. How does it work in Hungary to acquire the necessary tools to control the coronal virus epidemic? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor. [[15.40]]
u2020-03-30-135	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Minister, There is a dramatic spread of the corona virus in Europe, with more and more reports from the surrounding countries every day that they are unable to stop the rapidly spreading epidemic. Looking at the foreign data, we're expecting a lot of infected people here. Hungary has survived the first phase of the epidemic positively. Health has reacted quickly and organisedly, thanks to timely preventive measures, we have taken a step advantage over other countries that have been dramatically affected by a coronal virus epidemic. However, we are also approaching the stage of mass infections. We're just getting the hard part. During an epidemic, life may depend on an effective response, and the Hungarian government will do everything in its power to prolong and slow the spread of the virus. This is what the measures taken in the days are for, since Saturday the curfew has been in place. Health care will be subjected to about ten times the pressure when Hungary reaches the peak of the epidemic. Thank you for the sacrifice of health and police workers, who are the most important players in this fight. We will need all our strength and endurance in the coming period. For a successful defense, however, it is essential that health professionals receive all the equipment for their work: medical masks, rubber gloves, special protective equipment, disinfectants and ventilators. Dear Minister, With all that in mind, I ask with all due respect, how is the acquisition of the necessary tools for the control of the coronal virus in our country now? Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-30-136	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister László Palkovics. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-03-30-137	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congresswoman! In order to control the coronal virus, the government has indeed implemented the measures that can slow down the spread of the disease very quickly in an international comparison, and indeed, as you said, we have been able to flatten the epidemic curve. Here the Hungarian saying is valid: those who gain time win life. That is what has happened, and I should like to thank our fellow countrymen who have worked for it and those who understand it and take it with patience. The government will make every effort to use this time to provide protective equipment and other means for protection. In order to achieve this, the entire government, the Ministry of Human Resources, the State Health Care Centre, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and the Ministry of Innovation and Technology are working together. Public procurements made it possible to purchase, inter alia, protective equipment, surgical mouth masks, FFP2 mouth masks, goggles, isolation clothing, face shields, tests and rapid tests for the detection of the coronal virus, as well as disinfectants and ventilators. In the last week, only seven aircraft have arrived, which brought much more than a hundred tons of protective equipment, including respirators, to Hungary. We're expecting another 20 aircraft this week to deliver hundreds of tons of protective equipment. This means about 10 million masks, 2.5 million rapid tests, 100,000 protective suits, and face shields, 300,000 pairs of gloves, and over 2,000 respirators. These purchases provide health care workers and patients with protective equipment to ensure that their work is properly performed and that they are able to heal properly. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-30-138	Thank you very much, Minister. A woman representing a one-minute rejoinder has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-139	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Minister, Thank you very much for your answer. It is reassuring that the government will do everything in its power to keep health protection equipment in Hungary. We also thank you for the fact that we can see in the news when these protective equipment arrives in Hungary. Thank you very much for your answer. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-30-140	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-141	Thank you very much. I would like to add to this, as Minister of Economic Affairs, that we would, of course, like to supplement the purchase of the assets abroad by creating and using the ability to produce these tools in Hungary. At the moment, the government has been funding and supporting 11 projects, based on the decisions of the last two weeks, with the aim of developing protective equipment, mathematical-medical models and, not least, pharmaceuticals. So by doing so, we are strengthening the Hungarian economy and increasing the portfolio where we can in some respects become independent of the foreign economic environment. This is a difficult situation, so we must play all kinds of instruments, not only on the instrument of foreign procurement, but also on Hungarian instruments. I think that the Hungarian community is doing this very well. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-30-142	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congressman László György Lukács, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think about this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Congressman László György Lukács has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-143	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you three health questions that are really important, because this is the first line of defense. Mathematical models show relatively good numbers and are relatively credible in how the number of infected can develop, and they can even show relatively well how many of the infected are expected to be in very serious condition. In the light of such a mathematical model, it is expected that the current scenario would reach the point at which the breathing machine capacity that Hungary has at present reaches the point at a peak at the end of April, when these capacities are essentially being filled or fully tied down. That is why I ask the Prime Minister where they are waiting, because it was not yet clear to the people where they were waiting for the peak of this epidemic, which time, which month. After all, people are just guessing, they don't know how long they need to be in their safe homes, because they need to stay at home and how long they need to put maximum trust in health care. On the secondary question, and on the second question: in the epidemic, you said at the very beginning, there are enough of us, and there are millions of instruments available. This is also important because we see sad examples in Italy that health workers pay with their lives for protection. In recent days, we have also seen and heard in many places that there has been a shortage of care mainly for rescue workers or in the general medical system, and the means of protection have not been reached. In this connection, I would like to ask you how these stand, whether they have been communicated. I mean, what was the reason for this hiccup, and it's gonna happen, so can we count on that? And did the government expect a bad scenario where Hungarian medical workers might die? The last question is: could you support, Prime Minister, a wage increase for health workers that will bring the 20 percent increase this year straight up, and, as of 1 August, would you give a 30 percent increase for the next two years, a salary increase for 105,000 health professionals, 24,000 doctors and thousands of other health workers? I look forward to your substantive answer.
u2020-03-30-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Prime Minister. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-03-30-145	Thank you very much for the questions. These are serious questions. I've already answered the third one twice, if you don't mind: April 67. The other two questions, however, are two cases that I deal with and think about a lot about, and I cannot give you a reassuring answer. So when you talk about what the timeline of this epidemic is, how it's coming up, where it's at its peak, how it's coming back, when it's all over, I'm looking at three working groups, because I've asked three people to prepare this kind of forecast for us. I can tell you this: there's a clinical, epidemiology task force that basically works on Semmelweis' base. We have a working group working with mathematical models, led by László Palkovics, and there is an epidemiological authority working group. They deal with estimations and analyses, and they never gave me a lead on any of the nights of the analysis I was given. From this it is clear that there is a great deal of uncertainty in this assessment. So I work the same way, I do the action plans, I control the operational tribe, and I also make decisions about stock management by trying to slow the spread with curfew, for example, but with other measures. Because the slower the spread, the lower the maximum pressure on the healthcare system. And I am working on the fact that by the time the moment that this epidemic becomes a mass, and the pressure is heavy on the Hungarian hospital care system, it will last. There should be enough equipment, man, and so on, which is why we have adapted and supplemented the hospital management system with the hospital commander system. As for the diseases, the medical condition, we have to deal with that. I have data on what this looks like in Italy, France and Spain. I don't think that's significantly or significantly different for us. [[15.50]] So we're gonna have doctors who I don't think are gonna die because we're not gonna let doctors over 65 get close to an epidemiology treatment because they're gonna be in danger. Those who will get sick, we will basically replace the residents whose training and training began so that they can stand next to intensive beds so that nurses and doctors can fall out. This is a military action plan. I very much hope that by the time we get to the top of the crisis, and the pressure will be great, we will be able to endure it. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-30-146	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. It's a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-147	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, Just give me some answers on how long people have to hold on to what the government's counting. [[Delight and murmur from the pro-government benches.]] What dates are we talking about? We talked about the need for Parliament to meet, and it will meet. What are people up to? [[Rumors from the pro-government ranks. Dr. Bence Rétvári: Who can tell? In which country can you tell?]] It's important to share this with people, even if those behind you don't support it. What I can suggest to you, but you can see that, and perhaps you can help with your idea of keeping the number of people infected as low as possible and putting less problems or less burden on the health system, testing. Obviously, testing should be increased not only by WHO, but now by everyone and the countries' experience. The other, and I ask for your position in this, is that you can support it, because this is also very important to prevent the spread of the disease. This is Jobbik's current proposal, and I hope you can accept it, so you can support it to be a rule funded by the state, but it is mandatory for people to be able to appear in public spaces only in masks, as this will help to reduce the number of infections further if there is contact, thereby reducing the burden on the healthcare system. Prime Minister, can you support such a proposal or not? Thank you. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-30-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. One-minute rejoinder, Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-149	I could, but the question is, do you have a child? There is a country, a Central European country, where the following rules apply at the same time. You can only go out of the apartment in a mask, but there's no mask in circulation, because you have to put it in the hospital during the pressure, so everyone has to make their masks at home. I don't think this will work in Hungary. I just want to let you know that right now, we're about to have a mass epidemic, so every defensive device a doctor uses 3-4 masks a day, every device available, we're stockpiling in hospitals today, so that we can protect the load in hospitals, and otherwise everyone else can buy a mask or make it, just like I did at home, in case of need. So what I can tell you is that when I can introduce a rule by force, I can introduce it if I can create conditions for compliance. Today, I cannot guarantee to the Hungarians that there will be enough masks in the country that they can buy in pacical traffic, so they will get it every day. That's why I'm asking them to wear masks, but I can't guarantee the terms of that, so I can't make it an obligation. That's how it is. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-30-150	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Foreign Affairs and Trade Minister an immediate question: how does the government help Hungarians stranded abroad? It's an address. Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The last few weeks have been in the spirit of defense against the coronal virus. With every effort, we are trying not to overload health institutions. International experience shows that we need to be prepared and settled for a long time. It has become certain that we will have to face long-term international traffic restrictions. Air transport is becoming increasingly problematic around the world. Airlines cancel their flights, complete airspace and airports, and this also seriously affects the fate of our countrymen who are stranded abroad. In recent years, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has established a working group to organise the return of Hungarians who are stranded abroad, which continuously consults Hungarians who wish to return from anywhere in the world, whether they are individual travelers or even families and groups. Dear Minister, At all times, during such a pandemic, the Hungarian government has a particular duty to help Hungarian citizens who are in trouble abroad, as it does now, with the assistance of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. For my part, I can also say, on behalf of the Christian Democratic People's Party, thank you for the sacrifice of those involved in organizing and conducting. Listening to the news, I also ask Mr. Minister, with respect to the interests of family members who are waiting for Hungarians who are stranded abroad, what measures are being taken by the government to help Hungarians who are stranded abroad. How many of our countrymen have been brought home so far, and how many are still abroad, waiting for our help? Thank you for your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-30-152	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Minister Péter Szijjártó. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-03-30-153	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and If you are watching the news coming from the world, you can see that all news from the United States, France, Italy, the United Kingdom is coming that makes it clear that the pandemic is putting even the countries with the largest and strongest economies to a serious test. Obviously, all illusions have had to be dealt with in the past period. If the G7s suffer this way, then we, as everyone in the world, must expect a very serious and long-term fight against the world's epidemic. One of the most important elements of this is that we bring home all Hungarian citizens who are stranded abroad, because due to air traffic restrictions, a large part of the world is now virtually inaccessible by commercial scheduled flights. I respectfully inform you and the Hungarian Parliament that the largest Hungarian repatriation operation of all time is taking place, in which we have brought home 5583 Hungarian citizens from different parts of the world, and we are currently working to help 2026 Hungarian citizens return home. If you are asking the question that the European Union has helped in this matter, the answer is, unfortunately, no. When the European Union, when Brussels realized that there was a need for some kind of coordination, it was better that they did nothing. We work with Central European countries on a bilateral basis. The day before yesterday, 87 Hungarian citizens came home from Washington on the Slovak relief flight, but we brought home the citizens of neighbouring states from Morocco, Israel and several parts of the world. I respectfully inform you that the largest Hungarian group is in North America today, 477 in the United States and Canada, with two airplanes out of five cities in the course of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, Hungarian citizens will be brought home from there as well. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-30-154	Thank you very much, Minister. For a one-minute rejoinder, I'll give the floor to the lady representing you. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-155	Thank you very much, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your reassuring reply. Over the past few weeks, tens of thousands of our southern and eastern neighbours have been able to return home through Hungary thanks to the humanitarian assistance of the Hungarian government, and I would like to thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for its sacrifice and for all the work that has been done to help our countrymen who are stranded abroad to return home. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-30-156	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Minister. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-157	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Of course, I will convey your thanks to those worthy of it, but unfortunately, we cannot talk about solace as long as there are Hungarian citizens abroad who cannot get home because of the restrictions, which is what we have to do. I would like to point out that there are 243 Hungarian citizens in the Latin American and Caribbean regions, who also have an elemental difficulty in getting to a place within a country that we can fly to. So this is a very coordinated and very wide-ranging rescue mission that we are carrying out together with the neighbouring, basically the Visegrad countries. First, we help people get to an airport within the country, where we can then pick them up. I respectfully inform you that you have heard about it in international news, India has introduced unprecedented strict measures. 44 Hungarians currently reside in Delhi and other large Indian cities. Together with the Poles, we are organizing a rescue operation in which we can bring some of the Hungarian citizens who have been stranded there this week and the others, of course, continuously. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-30-158	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Dóra Dúró, an independent Member, would you like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor. [[16.00]]
u2020-03-30-159	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Our country supported the adoption of the Crown Virus Act as a single opposition party. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] However, this support was not for your person or for the government's policy. [[Fertility and noise in the benches of the governing parties.]] At the same time, we would like to point out that this is not the time to fight our political battles. According to our country's view, political differences must now be put aside, and we must all take the side of action. We didn't just do this in Parliament, because we put the resources of our country into the service of the elderly as part of a voluntary shopping operation by helping them to stay in their homes. You, too, must do more for the elderly, Prime Minister. They talk a lot about organizing care for them, organizing their protection, and that's right, and it's very important. But do you think of their souls? Do you think that hundreds of thousands of Hungarians, millions of them for months, because of this virus, we have to separate them from their children, grandchildren, and keep them locked up in their homes in order to protect their health and their lives? And will they really be able to stay at home? I ask you, Prime Minister, at least to make the phone call free for pensioners, so that contact with their loved ones is not a question of money for them. These telecommunications companies should be involved in defence costs, and any company that can now obtain extra profit should contribute to the cost of defence. We can also list the multi-national retail supermarket chains. Is there any openness in you, Prime Minister? I look forward to your substantive answer. [[Applause from the independent benches.]]
u2020-03-30-160	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-161	That's too bad, but if that's it, that's it. [[Defiance.]] On the issue of elderly people, I would like to say to you that it has made an eye for me, too, and if I have authority, I will try to put an end to that kind of anti-age mood, especially in the online space. What I see is that there's one of these, I don't know exactly where it feeds from, and I have a bad feeling about old people. I don't think we should allow that. Philosophically, you don't have to necessarily agree on the basics of this, but here, in this kind of space, we tend to think that we should respect our father and mother, because that's the way it is in the order, but there is another solution that should be considered for this other side to have a long life on earth, which, if I understand correctly, means that they will treat you the way you treat your father and your mother. So I think it is right to remind Hungarian society that, of course, there is a difference between how this epidemic affects older people and young people, but it should not happen that in Hungary we allow some kind of anti-age atmosphere, but that we make decisions and talk about them in the voice of respect and possibly helping them. As far as telephone calls are concerned, I have news for you that when we came to government in 2010, no network service provider was Hungarian-owned. They are now owned abroad, and I am not in a position to require free services. We are working to create a situation where making calls to the elderly, but also to others, it will be as little a burden as possible. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-30-162	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. A woman representing a one-minute rejoinder has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-163	Mr. Prime Minister, While hundreds of thousands of our compatriots will also be in a very difficult financial situation, for example, as I have mentioned, as you have mentioned, the multinational food retail chains have, according to their own declaration, been able to make unprecedented traffic in recent years. But with the provision of school and work from home, these telecommunications companies have a huge opportunity, in the short term and in the long term, to show revenue growth, so they could contribute to the cost of protection with either a contribution or a solidarity tax. I think that this would be expected of everyone when the whole country gets into trouble, both in health, economic and spiritual terms. [[Applause from the independent benches.]]
u2020-03-30-164	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-03-30-165	First of all, I'd like to thank you for your correct tone with me and the government. I also believe that we are living in a time when we do not need politics, but we need unity, and I have not given up hope that sooner or later this will become a general recognition throughout the House. If I remember correctly, Congresswoman, you have been a Member since 2010. It was here when our government was first formed in 2010, with a two-thirds majority, and I presented the first rescue plan for the economy in this Parliament's other meeting room. It had two very important elements: we involved banks and involved multi-enterprises in carrying the social burden of crisis management. If you're watching, the first decision I've made was that banks have to waive interest and repayments until the end of this year, so that it can't be recapitalised. As for the multinationals, trust me and wait for April 7th. [[Delight and applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-30-166	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ágnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: When will there be action? It's an address. Here you go, Congresswoman... [[Moore and noise in the benches of the governing parties. The president's ringing the bell.]] My fellow Members, please remain calm.
u2020-03-30-167	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, My question concerns when there will be action. Everyone will be waiting for this magical April 7th. We're sitting on the edge of what you're going to report. I would like to draw attention to one thing, in case we get an answer on April 7th. The situation of local governments has already been mentioned in this House. Local governments now bear a heavy burden, they have to deal with medicine, shopping, catering for old people, but they also have people in line for help who have already lost their jobs. All sorts of other troubles, the disinfection of the institutions, the disinfection of public areas, and I could tell you what they're doing. If you think about it, in the territory of a more muscular municipality like the XVIII. The district, which has a population of 100,000, is only over 65 and there are 24,000. If only half of the time goes by when we expect the disease to become a mass, it is also the provision of 12,000 elderly people, which consumes very hard extra resources and, where appropriate, hundreds of millions of resources in the budget of a local government. It is also apparent that the current budgets that the municipalities have accepted, Prime Minister, are tilted, and certainly, just as the country, the municipal budgets must also be restructured. A small local government can turn its head even from a few hundred thousand forints, but a larger municipality can hold millions of forints, let's say, only for a month and a half. With all due respect, the magician on 7 April will be a source of assistance to the municipalities, and how much resources you intend to devote to this, Prime Minister. Thank you.
u2020-03-30-168	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer is addressed to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. Here you go, Prime Minister.
u2020-03-30-169	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and What I can say now is that, as a result of the emergency mandate today, the rethink of the 2020 budget now in force will be completed within days. As I understand it, we were given the legal opportunity to derogate from the budget law in force today. We're gonna make a difference, more than a lot of people might think. So the 2020 budget needs to be readjusted in practice, and this will also have a consequence for the 21st. Now, let's stick to the 20. The 20 is also part of the local governments. As we are going to make a transformation in the central state, we expect about the same changes from the municipalities. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-30-170	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-171	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I only hope that in the municipalities it will not provide withdrawal, but additional resources. You said that earlier that the budget was open. I'd like to ask you three questions very quickly. What percentage of GDP will this rescue package amount to, and this is about, as we can see from the neighbouring countries, what ratio will it make to the rescue packages of the other countries? My other question is, Prime Minister Gergely Gulyás, Minister, that they will keep the 3 percent deficit target. [[16.10]] It is true that the EU grants exemptions and concessions in a number of areas, but how can it be combined if you wish to announce the largest economic package since the change of regime, but, as Mr Gulyás said, you want to keep the 3% deficit target? And my last question is that the State Audit Office has just begun to check on the XVIII. a district municipality, when the municipality is essentially operating with very few numbers, and, indeed, it would require assistance, or at least a delayed control. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] I'm guessing you're not the only one with the 18th. district municipality. Mr President, thank you for your patience.
u2020-03-30-172	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Rejoice, Prime Minister. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-173	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I have one minute, and you've asked at least five serious questions. I'd like to touch the basic income, because this has come up several times. When I first heard about the basic income in my life, I thought it was the minimum wage: you work and you get a minimum amount, that's your basic income. But then it turned out that it wasn't that, the basic income is what we give to the one who didn't work, didn't make any effort, but is somehow subjective; what I can only say is that there is an operetta, there is life. And so I will only be able to make a proposal based on the real facts of life and direct people's efforts towards the workplace. And about the 3 percent deficit, I have to say that I do not want to turn into that street, and I would like the country not to go into it, which sounds like a welfare economy, foreign borrowing, the IMF at the end of the street, and the speculators of creditor banks under the leadership of a prestigious Hungarian man. We're not gonna turn around here. [[A big, long applause in the ranks of the governing parties.]]
u2020-03-30-174	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman László Varju, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: When will you make your efforts to alleviate the economic crisis that the Crown Virus will cause? It's an address. Congressman László Varju has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-175	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. [[Noise, several Members are leaving the Chamber. The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Minister, Then, according to today, because the news of the day has got to change this issue a little bit, because let's just say they've taken action. A week ago, the Prime Minister said that instead of waiting, it would be time for action. I would add that, in my opinion, the time has long come for action, which is why the Democratic Coalition has also formulated this in more than 56 points. However, the point is that the task of remedying the economic problems caused by the decline in demand is to finally do something. It is now apparent that other countries have already taken significant steps in international action. Today, we have mentioned several times whether the Austrian, German or French example, after which, at last, you would like to take action, if it seems so. Today, his fellow minister said that anyone who buys time will gain life. Dear Minister, Now, let's look at this from the business side. When will businesses finally get an answer, when will they finally receive a declaration of wage support as a wage fund to avoid having to and not have to be dismissed? Instead of spending the money on government propaganda, please make this decision and let's move forward. As I said, you could have done this for weeks, but I ask you once again, Minister, when are you going to see me save the economy and the workers, the workers? Thank you very much. [[It's a rare round of applause from the opposition lines.]]
u2020-03-30-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go, Minister.
u2020-03-30-177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Let me begin by saying that you may have missed the fact that many measures have already been taken by the government. Our actions are divided into two categories. In the first step, what had to be done immediately to help businesses, individuals and families. Let me list seven such measures for you. There has already been a moratorium on credit, capital and interest payments, which we have made possible by the end of the year. The second step is to exempt from the fee the lease of tourist, catering, entertainment, film and performers until 30 June 2020. The third measure is: until June, in enterprises operating in the sectors listed above, the employer will be exempt from paying post-wage charges or even from paying the contribution to the development of tourism and will not have to pay any contribution to the development of tourism. The fourth such step is the taxicab, hairdressing, beauty care, glazing, electrical installations, so that by June 26 sectors are exempted from paying the kata. Our fifth step was to give an extension to the accumulated tax debts that were created before 1 March. The sixth is that eviction, seizure procedures, tax executions have been suspended. And finally, the seventh decision was to extend the rights of children, children and children in an emergency, thus helping families. So, honourable Member, immediate action has been taken, which, overall, represent a burden relief of approximately HUF 3600-3700 billion for families, individuals and businesses. This is roughly 8 percent of GDP, and now we are going to take steps where we will hopefully support the relaunching of the economy. Hang in there. We'll do that soon. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-178	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is on the table. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-179	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Now, let's get this straight. The problem is so bad that the European Commission has also decided to lift the fiscal deficit rule for the Member States. Two: from the United States, as I mentioned, through Germany, a 2000 billion, 200 billion, 500 billion package was decided. What you have listed here is not even worth 100 million euros, and what you added to this, by the way, is not basically budgeting. I therefore ask you that, given that there will be a period of payments for businesses, employers, on 12 April, and that what they missed in March should not be made in April. Thank you very much for your reply.
u2020-03-30-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister is entitled to the rejoinder for a moment.
u2020-03-30-181	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Let's get this straight, but don't let the glass get dirty. First of all, we have not received any specific support from the European Union so far, and have had the opportunity to use the aid already granted early, but an orphan euro will not come as an additional support beyond the cohesion or other resources that have been received so far. The other question you have asked here, as I have said to you, is that we have taken immediate action, we have been able to help a lot of sectors, we have been able to help a lot of households, but the re-launching of the economy is creating a much deeper and much more thorough economic package. The necessary preparatory work has been carried out, and this will be completed soon. We have just today consulted economic interest representatives who are also involved in the drafting of this proposal, so we will be taking these steps soon. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-182	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question: what is the fate of victims of even less visible abuse during a Crown Virus? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Minister Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to respond to her absence. [[On the mark of Krisztina Hohn:]] Thank you very much, and I will not go on, because Congresswoman indicates that she accepts Mr Pál Völner as a replyer. Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-183	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In order to prevent the spread of a coronal virus epidemic, the government proposes staying at home for everyone who can because home is safer. But there are those to whom the home does not provide security, but threats and possibly violence. We know that closeness can often blur even well-functioning relationships. In a relationship or in a family context where abuse has occurred before, it can be even more intense in this case as a result of closeness. [[16.20]] My question is what measures and solutions are planned to address crises. We know there's a free phone number. Today, Minister said to the press, where he mentioned this, and that halfway houses and so on are open. How can they manage to stop the spread of the coronal virus or prevent it from entering these institutions? Do you have the opportunity to quarantine families who are forced to flee in this terrible situation? The other is how the children will receive feedback from the competent body. Because there is currently no personal contact with the school, there is only an Internet or telephone connection, so the educator sees only that the child is preparing his duties in time, the family support service can also help by telephone or via the Internet. So personal relationships are canceled. I would like to ask you what solutions you can offer to trigger this. Thank you.
u2020-03-30-184	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and The government has been committed to combating the violence of relationships and protecting children, women and families. We strive to ensure that in the spirit of zero tolerance no one has to suffer abuse in Hungary during the emergency. The state does not abandon victims of crimes, violations in the event of an emergency, and victims of contact violence can expect help during an epidemic. In order to reduce personal encounters, victim protection services had to be adapted. Under the necessary rules, secret safe houses, crisis centres and halfway houses continue to function. Crisis clinics are also operating, their staff can be reached by telephone and online, and clinics have been provided with information on where to turn for help. I would like to stress that relationship violence is not a private matter, so it is important for everyone who knows someone who can become a victim. The Budapest, Miskolc and Szombathely victim support centers operated by the Ministry of Justice operate despite the current difficult circumstances and provide support for the victims who came to them. In view of the current situation, colleagues pay particular attention to emotional assistance. The goal is for victims to feel that they are not alone in these times of distress and receive the necessary support. Every day of the week, the number of the victim support line 06 80 225 225 can continue to be called free of charge, through which each victim receives the necessary information about the system of state victim support and which organisation he can contact with his specific problem. Since the announcement of the emergency, the Budapest centre has been visited by 24 people, the Szombathely, the Miskolc centre by 6 people, and the victim support line by 417 people in recent years. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-30-186	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A woman representing a one-minute rejoinder has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-187	For the sake of all of us, and especially for the sake of possible victims, I hope that these will be enough, but we must be prepared when the quarantine is over, because it is likely that there will be much more trauma, and there may be rapid requests from social services and family support services. My question is how they are going to do this, and I respectfully ask that we be as careful as possible in the interests of families; in the context of the Crown Virus, we have already done a lot, but also in relation to domestic or potential child abuse. Thank you.
u2020-03-30-188	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The Secretary of State is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-30-189	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As stated, the conditions for safe work for employees are still available, so they continue to accept calls from victims of violence and trafficking in human beings. So, in addition to health care, we also pay particular attention to victim protection, and we also trust that the exceptional circumstances of the emergency period will be given particular attention to the courts. The commitment of the Minister and the Ministry of Justice on this subject remains unchanged, and we thank the LMP faction for monitoring the domestic situation of victim protection during these difficult times, and it is very fortunate that, in the framework of the development of the victim support programme, we will open three additional victim support centres this year. Hopefully, once the quarantine period is over, those services will become available as widely as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-03-30-190	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Sándor Burány, representative of the Dialogue, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Bence Rétvári has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. [[Sándor Burány nodds.]] Thank you very much for your permission, I don't have to tell you any more. Congressman accepts the identity of the responder. Congressman Sándor Burány has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-191	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, A few hours ago, a big announcement was made that 100 tons of equipment will arrive in Hungary in the near future, including virus testing equipment, ventilators and millions of masks. I sincerely hope that this means that the government and the operational tribe will change their professional position so far. His professional position so far was that there was no need for mass screening in Hungary, it was enough, so to say, to filter suspected cases of disease, and even to launch a campaign to ensure that only healthy people would wear masks. Today's announcement gives rise to the conclusion that correctly the government and the operational tribe have learned the lessons and will change their position, because otherwise such equipment would not have been needed in such a quantity. Therefore, although a date has been said in the field of economic protection action protection on 6th or perhaps 7th, I now respectfully ask the Secretary of State when they intend to launch the coronal virus tests mass in Hungary and when it will be made available to people to have access to large quantities of protective masks at easy and normal prices. Thank you very much for your reply, I hope you will be informative.
u2020-03-30-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-30-193	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, In fact, beyond what we told Parliament last week that there were 129 thousand special masks, 20 million pairs of rubber gloves, 170 thousand protective suits and 2560 ventilators, compared to which the planes that landed in Budapest have brought 200 respirators, 1.7 million special masks, 7 million surgical masks and 200,000 protective suits in the last few days. They brought so much equipment because we can expect to see the example of other countries, because it is a very long period of protection. Therefore, although these are huge stocks and additional stocks will be coming in the next few days according to the contracts contracted by the government, they should nevertheless be used according to a pre-defined plan and schedule, because they will be needed not only in a week's time, but in a month's time and perhaps even in two months' time. The most important thing is that in hospitals, health care, there should always be a supply of this, be it in law enforcement, then in strategic companies, and be distributed according to a predefined order. As far as testing is concerned, honourable Member, the head of the WHO office in Hungary, Ledia Lazeri, said that Hungary has introduced a good protocol for testing, because he said that it is only in the suspicious cases that it is worth carrying out the test, that is to say, those who show symptoms or have met someone who was previously infected. He said that the WHO recognises the Hungarian government's actions, the authorities do things, they are able to detect new cases, conduct tests if necessary. And so the WHO Director of the European Emergency Programme made the same statement to 168 Hours, who said that Hungary is doing well to test those whose symptoms are likely to be infected or to believe that the measures adopted in Hungary are suitable for detecting cases. The WHO has therefore recognised Hungary's good use of the tests, which is why we intend to continue to follow this WHO-approved protocol. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] [[16.30]]
u2020-03-30-194	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to answer, I respectfully ask everyone to try and keep the time frame as much as possible. Because of the important questions, I have not tried to interrupt anyone so far so that they can tell me, but I am asking everyone to try and keep the time frame. In return, Congressman Sándor Burány has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-195	Thank you very much. The answer was disappointing, Mr. Secretary. In essence, he confirmed that they were not preparing for a mass test and that they did not provide large quantities of protective masks for the population. He basically admitted that these equipment would be used in hospitals. I would like to draw your attention to the statement made a few days ago that there is a sufficient number of equipment available in hospitals, and between the announcement made today that we need 100 tonnes of equipment in Hungary, there is some contradiction, Mr Secretary of State. I don't know if you can see that. I have two comments. One is that WHO recommendation or not, all network experts say that the number of connections should be reduced, and the mass test would help exactly that. Let's not forget that 80 percent of patients with coronal virus are asymptomatic, so we need a mass test, and that's why we need a mouth mask. On several of my fellow Members with fidesz, the mask was clearly visible, I hope not because they are sick, if they are, I wish them a better time. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-03-30-196	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-197	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Let's put things in place. Indeed, it can serve to minimise the spread of the virus. Therefore, Hungary decided very quickly to ban events, cancel sports events, stop school visits, exactly so that there would be as few meetings as possible, and that is why curfew restrictions came at the end of the last week in order to limit the spread of the virus. However, WHO also says that testing should be done in those who are suspected of being feverish because they have a dry cough, a pain in the limbs, muscle pain, which is why everyone has to call the doctor, so it is not necessary, and it is not recommended to go to the doctor's office, so they do not have to take the patient to the hospital, but they go to the hospital, they take the sample there, locally, and then they report back to the general physician in the electronic service space, and the patient can follow his own lab results fully digitally, in those who are at risk, because he shows some kind of symptom. And that's what the WHO has admitted that it's good practice when we test them as quickly and as often as possible. Honourable Congressman, Like I said, the reason why a lot of protective equipment is needed is because it's going to be a long epidemic. Thank you for your patience, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-198	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congressman Richárd Hörcsik, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. Will Brussels help to protect against the Crown Virus? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the absence of Minister, Mr Pál Völner has given the right to reply. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for accepting the response. Congressman Richard Hörcsik has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-199	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, At present, we have all the tools available for a successful defense against the coronal virus, as we have heard, but we need to prepare for a prolonged fight, which, during its most critical period, will have to cope with multiples of normal stress for the health care system, so it is vital that we manage the supplies well. The saying is that a true friend is in trouble, so it is talkative to whom of Hungary's partners can be expected. Let's see. So far, there have been 90 tons of shipments from China, 86 ventilators, millions of masks, 130,000 protective suits and 100,000 tests, and in the next few weeks, hundreds of tons of protective material will be available. Then 150,000 protective masks were offered from Uzbekistan, and the Turkish government supplies the necessary materials for the production of masks. Since the change of regime, we have struggled together to be part of a strong community created by nation states, which really shows its strength in such difficult situations. There is therefore a legitimate question as to how the European Union is helping to defend itself now. Dear Secretary of State, The European Parliament took important decisions at its meeting last week, which will undoubtedly help those Member States where they are lagging behind using EU development resources. Thank God, Hungary is no longer one of these Member States. Solidarity with the EU Member States is therefore important, but Hungary is the most important to us. Therefore, Honourable Secretary of State, the question is obvious: what help can we Hungarians expect from Brussels in defence? I'm looking forward to your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. I respectfully give the floor to Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-201	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, In the fight against world-wide coronal virus infection, each country will develop its own defence strategy, given that a global solution is not known at the current stage of medicine. Unfortunately, there was no European solution either, so we could see that the EU acted rather late and rather indecisive and that its healthcare organisation did not follow the events in the world at an appropriate pace, so Hungary acted in accordance with the WHO recommendations and even introduced the measures in advance. It is also clear that the relations that we have established over the past period have indeed become fruitful, whether we are thinking of Chinese relations or the Turk Council, and we can also see that the Union is not prepared for such an epidemic, or that there are no capacities that would satisfy the needs of the EU, nor that there is any health cooperation that would lead to additional benefits during this period. The decision to allow countries to take measures to assist the health and SMEs sector at the expense of untied resources and reimbursable resources did not constitute any advantage for Hungary. Although it is possible to indicate the amount that would apply to this if we had this, it is very clear from the checks that, after a hundred percent of these resources have been committed, they do not contain any actual available resources. We are very pleased that there are EU Member States that can do this, Hungary is not one of them, and we would like to have a level playing field that allows us to obtain the resources that others will benefit from. Hopefully, EU decision-making will come here sooner or later and will also take this into account. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-202	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Richard Hörcsik. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-203	Dear Secretary of State, We have all seen that the European Union has been unprepared for the epidemic. However, as Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári mentioned, Hungary has been following and applying the World Health Organisation's forecasts and recommendations from the beginning, and thanks to this we took the first measure on 25 January, and the operational tribe responsible for defence was established a week later, 31. What, on the other hand, do we see in the European Union? I quote from the EU's epidemiological office on the same day, i.e. in its report dated 31 January, that: "The likelihood of human-to-human transmission in the EU is very low or low. If we had listened to this EU office, honourable Secretary of State, we would be in a lot of trouble right now. It seems that in this case, too, we have to solve this challenge on our own, as we did in the migration crisis in 2015.
u2020-03-30-204	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is the subject of Secretary of State Pál Völner. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-205	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Unfortunately, we cannot disprove what the Member has said, and this is a very bad precedent, because trust in EU institutions created and operated with expensive money is being undermined precisely by such omissions or errors. Technically, it seems that we can really rely on our own national measures. We have already spent more than HUF 200 billion on defence, which, fortunately, according to the situation of the Hungarian budget, according to the Ministry of Finance, has made it possible and we will take further steps. The Prime Minister has announced that we can expect an economic recovery package, which we will also have to implement on our own initiative. [[16.40]] It can also be seen that the Union is instead dealing with different rule of law and other hysteria, which, by the way, is partly generated by representatives of opposition parties, for example, in the LIBE Committee. It's a sad situation. We have to trust ourselves and our friends. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-206	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr Róbert Dudás, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister responsible for innovation and technology an immediate question:. Even in an emergency, Lőrinc Mészáros is the most important thing for the government? It's an address. Congressman Róbert Hondas has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-207	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear House, I would like to ask you a question about the Mátra power plant, and I would like to say right from the beginning that we agree on one thing, because you said that it is a strategic company, of course it cannot be a question, so it is extremely important to make the right decisions on the Mátra power plant. It is about the work and work of thousands of people working there, and the families behind them, so it is very important that the Mátra Power Plant works, works properly and works up to date. It is therefore incomprehensible to us, to me, why this sale was not born a long time ago. We asked you more than three months ago and asked you for information on the details of the sale. We have been told that once the negotiations, audits and valuations are completed, we will have all the answers. Last week, the answer was that for HUF 17.5 billion, the state purchased the power plant, which, by the way, generated profits until 2 years ago, but since then only the money was taken out of it. Two years ago, the company with Lőrinc Mészáros' interest bought the Mátra Power Plant for nearly HUF 6 billion, which, according to experts, was at a lower price. Since then, it has received billions of state aid for its operation, but this did not prevent it from paying a dividend of HUF 11.2 billion to itself and the other shareholders from doing so from the profit base, while the power plant generated losses. It's important to note here that the balance has been negative since you were in private interest. The responsible state behaviour would have been, I feel, if the government had moved ahead. Why didn't the state buy it then? Why have they allowed taxpayers to spend over HUF 20 billion in over 2.5 years on this transaction? I ask for your substantive answer, Minister.
u2020-03-30-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Minister László Palkovics will respond. Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-03-30-209	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Basically, a sales transaction requires two parties' intentions, the intention to buy must be the intention of the seller. The intent to sell didn't exist 2.5 years ago. Of course, I understand the content behind your question. I think we absolutely agree on why the Hungarian State and the Hungarian Electricity Works bought the Mátra Power Plant at all: this is a strategic power plant in the sense that it produces 16 percent of the domestic installed electricity capacity, in this sense it is a basic power plant. Very simply: such a power plant, if its private owners decided to lead it out, could not be replaced in the Hungarian system, was the essential reason for this purchase. We remember that the former German owner also had an intention, and there a Hungarian owner had to enter into this case in order not to endanger Hungary's economic interests in this way. The price of HUF 17.4 billion was set by international auditors, which is why the Hungarian State bought it at this price. But speaking of power plants, I think it's also a very important question of what happened, why it happened, but what's going to happen to the power plant, I think it's also worth talking about. The Mátra Power Plant is Hungary's only fully accessible energy carrier, the lignite-based power plant, in this sense such a power plant can ensure certain energy independence. Since there are no technologies available that would make the combustion of coal significantly more efficient or free of carbon emissions, we will decide to close this plant. Our aim is to eliminate the lignite power plant by 2025, without prejudice to the fact that the lignite itself remains there and we want to maintain a certain capacity, but after 2025 we will not have this type of power plant. What's gonna happen? The first thing that will happen is that this power plant will continue to be a central element of the Hungarian network, so my time will be over soon, so it will simply not be possible, we will transform the power plant in the sense that it will be an environmentally friendly power plant, and it is very important, as you mentioned, to continue to operate the industrial park that is now being built in the vicinity of the workers and the power plant. That's our goal, and that's why we bought it. Thank you for asking. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-210	Thank you very much, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Róbert Dudás. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Once again, I am very pleased with the state's receipt that the Mátra Force has been taken over by the state. The incomprehensible thing for me and for us is why it took two to 2.5 years to wait. By the way, the only person who benefited from this transaction was Lőrinc Mészáros, who was behind it; and what had to be invested in the state, but the population of a country was badly affected. As far as the transaction is concerned, we are going to press charges, because the state billions are not even added to some people anymore. The burden of the Hungarian people is not being deterred by unfaithful treatment, even though they are the ones who would need the help most right now. Overall: Lőrinc Mészáros produced HUF 22.7 billion in 2 years, which cost Hungarian taxpayers HUF 24.5 billion. We press charges for mistreatment because this amount should now be in health care, in the area of law enforcement, in the social sphere, and not least in the employment protection fund. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-30-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Zsolt Molnár, representative of MSZP [[Interviews in Jobbik's ranks: Mr. Secretary, one more...]] You want to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question... [[For signal:]] Excuse me, I'm sorry. Minister hasn't answered yet. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-03-30-213	I was probably so quick and exhausting in the two minutes that Mr President did not think I needed to comment. Once again, the time, the timing: you can buy something when you want to sell it, so I think that this market law in a democracy is difficult to go beyond, so the government took action in this case when the intent to sell was, by the way, established. It is not my place to protect Hungarian owners in such matters; I believe that when I think you remember this better than I did this acquisition earlier, in an emergency, a Hungarian man bought a power plant in order to continue to ensure the energy security of Hungary, and then, from a business point of view, it was clearly different. Here, the Hungarian state has the task of continuing to ensure this. I'm saying you're going to press charges: do it. There are many kinds of calculations, there is one that you said, and there is another calculation, which says that, by the way, if we are trying to calculate a social return on investment, so we are trying to calculate a social return, then this will result in a positive number. [[Interventions in opposition parties.]] They'll argue about that. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-214	Thank you very much, Minister, and I apologize for not giving you this moment at first. Congressman Zsolt Molnár, representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Minister of the Interior an immediate question:. What is necessary to see the capital as a partner? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr Károly Kontra has appointed Secretary of State to respond. [[For signal:]] Thank you very much for your consent to nod, and you accept your response. Congressman Zsolt Molnár has the floor, please.
u2020-03-30-215	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The protection against the corona virus epidemic is carried out by the operational tribe, who coordinates this work nationwide, of course behind closed doors, and then at a press conference, what you want to say. Of course, it is the right decision to do their job. However, the members of the government here have talked a lot about social cooperation, political cooperation. We find that the most important players are not involved in this meaningful dialogue, the municipalities, as it is the municipalities who are connected to the local population, and the inhabitants of the major cities are especially the most exposed to this epidemic threat, and we find that the leadership of Budapest is not involved in this information flow. I was relieved to hear that the Prime Minister mentioned either the Mayor or the mayors in relation to defence committees, but if the partnership does not develop enough, if there is no close connection and information flow, then the defence will not be effective. I know several members of Budapest's city management, including the mayor, who wish to help the government, Gergely Christmas, wants to help Kata Tüttő, who leads the operational defense at the capital level. [[16.50]] I ask you to consider Budapest's city leadership as a partner in the flow of information, not to create a situation in which the press must inform the Mayor of Budapest. And I ask with respect, Mr State Secretary, what more must the city administration of Budapest do to prove that it wants to fight the epidemic and to help the government defend itself on this issue. And I ask you with all due respect not to push aside the outstretched hand of Mayor Gergely Christmas and Kata Tüttő, but to consider these noble intentions as a partnership from the leadership of Budapest.
u2020-03-30-216	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, Secretary of State Károly Kontra will answer the question. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-30-217	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The Hungarian people, Hungary, have already proved themselves together several times, so we have seen this during the floods, the extraordinary snow situation or the red mud disaster. In the present difficult, trying situation, the government tells people that no one is alone, that they can count on cooperation now, just as the government can count on the cooperation of Hungarian people. In addition to the difficulties, these days of cooperation are also thanks to millions of Hungarians, who show extraordinary discipline in these days. In addition, special recognition and thanks are given to those who stand up to their profession and fight against the virus. The government will provide all support to ensure that this fight is effective for all of us. As regards the participation of municipalities and the participation and information of the mayor of Budapest personally, I would like to say that the Budapest Defence Committee held its meeting on 20 March 2020. The Mayor of Budapest has all the information at his disposal. And thank you for your cooperation, because we share the goal of protecting the Hungarian people from the virus in any settlement in the country from Óbudavár to Budapest. In this fight, we expect the Mayor, we also expect the Budapest Defence Committee, and the operational tribe will provide the necessary information, the necessary information to ensure that this joint fight is effective. Thank you for your input. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-218	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Zsolt Molnár has the floor for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-219	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, You said soothing things, but you can calm down if you do not need to read statements from Gergely Christmas when you talk about having as much information about defense as you have about a voter reading a lot in Budapest, or when you will be informed about the meeting of the operational tribe in a press conference. I understand the noble and good intentions of defence, and I understand the reassuring words, but please, Mr Secretary of State, let us fill it with more content. On the one hand, speed up the flow of information. It would not be a devil's idea to involve the mayor or his direct associate in the work of the operational tribe, since what is happening in Budapest will affect the whole country and even put these events in the spotlight of the entire European press. I ask that we work together on the basis of partnership and mutual respect against the common enemy, the coronal virus.
u2020-03-30-220	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Károly Kontra is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-221	Thank you, Mr. President. We take the view that there is no other way, but cooperation, internal political debates will wait. The current epidemic is completely indifferent to them anyway. The more we work together, the more lives we can save. This situation is not about power, it's about people's lives. I therefore ask you and the mayor of the capital of Budapest to act accordingly. I would also like to say, honourable Member, that, in accordance with the Government's promise, what it did at the seven-party meeting on 27 February, which the Minister of Interior held for the leaders of the parliamentary factions and for the parliamentary factions, each faction receives every day information on the state of play in the fight against the Crown Virus. We trust that this effort of the government will be effective for all Hungarian settlements, including the capital of Budapest. We ask the Mayor to do everything in his power to ensure that the lives and health of the people of Budapest are safe. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-222	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: When will they be willing to face the social consequences of the upcoming crisis? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. [[László Sebian-Petrovski nods.]] Thank you very much for accepting the response. Congressman László Sebian-Petrovski has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-223	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. To the threat of an economic or social crisis or a downturn caused by a coronal virus epidemic, we can now say that the governments of the whole world are rushing into each other's heels to take measures to reduce the economic downturn as much as possible and to encourage job preservation, to provide money to businesses and to save the fallen. We see many examples of these types of measures, there are plenty of foreign examples, such as helping entrepreneurs in some countries with public guarantee credit schemes, banning the firing of workers, radically increasing the amount of unemployment benefits, taking over the labour costs of companies in whole or in part, developing special programmes for the poorest, the most deprived, as they are most affected by the crisis, they will be the worst walkers. For example, in the US, we have read that citizens receive $1,200 each from the budget and even receive cash in particular. Here, too, a number of workshops and parties have made proposals to alleviate the crisis, and I am also thinking of mitigating the social crisis. For example, a one-time allowance of HUF 15,000 was made for pensioners receiving a low pension, raising the unemployment allowance to HUF 100,000 per month, or working four or six hours to make up for 75 percent of their salary. There are not only humane reasons behind all these measures, although this is not negligible, but also a hard-core economic calculation, as these individuals and businesses would probably spend this amount at home. So I ask the Secretary of State what they intend to do to save hundreds of thousands of Hungarians and hundreds of thousands of Hungarian businesses from a more serious fall than after the change of regime. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-30-224	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Bence Rétvári to answer. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-225	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We can also quote from the practice of the Democratic Coalition what you have been able to do for crisis management. I read one of them today, but I repeat to you, in case you weren't here. When you were dealing with a crisis in 2008, Zsuzsa Ferge, a well-known left-wing sociologist, issued the following certificate: In 2008 Hungary was the only crisis for which the state said nothing, nothing at all, not a single match, in order for something to happen to the obvious losers of the crisis. There's never been a country like this before. At least everywhere, unemployment benefits or relief or something else have been extended. As a result, we had a particularly high risk for the poor. Zsuzsa Ferge, your domestic left-wing sociologist, classified your social crisis management as this. And we have to say that it hasn't changed since in the district you control, the VII. In the district, Peter Niedermüller was not really the first to help those who now do not leave home in the epidemic caused by the virus and need help because they are old. In a statement published on his Facebook page, the district said that they could not provide care for those living in the district. So, of course, they helped with the quotes in the first week for those who were victims of the epidemic, or at least because of the restriction of movement, they could not go out. And phone support was more like counterintelligence. On the other hand, the government took steps to suspend all loan repayments for both private individuals and companies. This alone amounts to HUF 3000 billion by 31 December. [[17.00]] Until June 30, we let go of the tourism development contribution, no pension contributions, only health insurance for tax drivers who tax according to the cata, and since then this discount has been extended to many others. Room rental contracts cannot be terminated [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] And we've taken a lot of other measures, which I'm going to continue in the next minute. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-30-226	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr László Sebian-Petrovsk is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-227	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State will no longer answer such specific questions. And the fact that he brings all kinds of quotes here 12 years ago is funny in itself if the subject wasn't. Your government has wiped out the 55 proposals made to DK by the way that we have submitted to you in all sorts of ways. I would just like to repeat a few things: we have asked for the payment of the April pensions to be brought forward in view of the situation here, in order to compensate workers for the loss of wages, to establish a job protection fund, to postpone tax deadlines. And may I add, I say, 55 points, I'd be very happy to give it to you, Mr. Secretary of State. The point is, your government wiped out these proposals. And I'm sorry, April 6th and 7th don't count on what they'll come up with then. They're late, they don't care about it, and I'll tell you why: because their government ideology doesn't fit the fact that the needy, the underprivileged, the people they're gonna leave on the side of the road, what problems they're gonna have in this virus struggle. So I'm really sorry, but that's an amazing answer, Mr. Secretary. Thank you.
u2020-03-30-228	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder also belongs to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-30-229	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, It is not funny what happened in Hungary 12 years ago, and we are setting an example because you governed it then, then you have taken these measures, which you could not even protect in-house by your own social sensitive colleagues, honourable Member. And that was the period when Ferenc Gyurcsány announced various new programs, plans and visions about every three months, and that was the period for which he was elected the 17th worst head of state and government in that period, not according to different domestic standards, but according to international standards. This is how you can handle the crisis: as in the case of the VII. They failed people in the district and, as they failed Hungarians in 2008, of course, because they only listened to their IMF friends. On the other hand, what is the payment of children, children and children, even if it expires, we will continue in the emergency situation caused by the virus situation, so that they do not leave the family without this income; we have extended short-term business loans until 30 June [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] we have maximized the interest on new consumer loans; and, as I said, we have given significant discounts and assistance to a large number of companies, more than 80,000 companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-230	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. Will you have access to adequate quality and quantity of protective equipment for those involved in the defence? It's an address. In the meantime, Mr President, you have already indicated that you will accept the person who is responding, and then Parliamentary Secretary Bence Rétvári will respond. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-231	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Dear House, As a result, I am in a daily, or at least continuous relationship with mayors, institutional leaders, district doctors, doctors, and I see from minute to day the incredible strain of work that they are trying to carry out, as a result of which we hope that the current epidemic situation will be easier and more bearable for people. The local authorities are in a very, very difficult situation, and I think it does not really need to be explained, because they have received additional tasks, and I think rightly so, the whole of the municipalities, such as the care of the elderly, but these include the care of patients in quarantine or the care of risky persons and thus persons who are placed under official quarantine. At the same time, however, we see that it is extremely difficult for all municipalities to be able to finance these tasks. In addition, these districts seek to perform social tasks beyond the power that I think are necessary in order to avoid a social disaster later on. Today's extraordinary news is that the mayor of Ferencváros has decided to grant extraordinary benefits to district residents who have lost their income. This, on the other hand, will carry on the district's budget by HUF 300 million. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] In this context, I would like to ask you that the government will provide any guarantees, any support to the municipalities to compensate for the losses lost to the defence by the districts. I would also like to ask you, it has been said today from several people and on several forums that tons of tons of masks and protective equipment are coming in. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] How can you expect to receive this protective equipment for the people on the front line [[The president's ringing again.]] They're fighting the virus. And if they get, how much and what quality? Thank you very much. Thank you for your patience.
u2020-03-30-232	Thank you very much. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-03-30-233	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Indeed, we should thank everyone who is now and in the coming weeks, when the situation becomes even more difficult, they are in hospitals, doctors and nurses, they are in public areas as law enforcement, or those who work in public transport, and those who work in commerce. We thank them for their standing, or for those who in social institutions are also facing very humane days in the coming period. In order to ensure their work as much as possible, this is why the government has already acquired 129 thousand special masks, 20 million pairs of rubber gloves, 170 thousand protective suits, and 2560 respirators, which were discussed in Parliament last week, and since then 200 respirators, 1.7 million special masks, 7 million surgical masks, 200,000 protective suits, and MOL has also changed one of its plants to produce disinfectants, precisely to provide adequate protective equipment. We have made available 5600 boxes of surgical masks free of charge for general doctors, which have been removed from county rescue centers. In addition, we also put nearly 20,000 special masks at the disposal of the general practitioners, most of which were taken from the emergency services centers; precisely because if the general doctors did not have what the local government or the practice would have had to provide earlier, they would have received this free of charge from the state resources, so we tried to help here as well. The state-owned plants with changed working skills have switched and are already producing washable masks in the order of tens of thousands each day. Ladies and gentlemen, You have also seen that this year's budget, with at least HUF 250 billion in expenditure, already includes the protection of the coronal virus epidemic as a result of government decisions. The Prime Minister has also provided information here, and you should know that the source of this should be found within the budget with various transfers. The government spent a lot of money on this. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] This clearly requires similar efforts from the municipalities. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-30-234	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congressman in a one-minute time frame.
u2020-03-30-235	Yes, sir. Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, The fact is that although the thanks are justified, and it is right to always say so, but thanks cannot be paid, thanks cannot buy bread, and unfortunately, from the 250 billion forints that Mr. State Secretary mentioned, the municipalities have received nothing. And the problem is not that the municipalities did not receive any extra money, but that we know precisely that due to the loss of tax revenues and the extra costs, all Hungarian municipalities are in a very difficult budgetary situation. With this, however, they did not receive any money or protective equipment, since none of the protective equipment listed by you has reached the local authorities, they risk the health of pensioners, since we cannot provide protective equipment for volunteers and defence workers who otherwise provide care to the elderly and, moreover, the health of those involved in protection is at risk. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Because they have to provide sick people with all kinds of protective equipment in quarantine. Thank you very much. [[17.10]]
u2020-03-30-236	Thank you. You have a rejoinder from the Secretary of State. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-03-30-237	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Perhaps if you had been so brave in your words and advanced, you might have been so brave in action, you could have listened to your former party president, András Schiffer, who may have started in the same area as you, so you met the same people that you refer to. András Schiffer, who, I say, was a candidate for the same people, said that he should have voted for you and the other opposition representatives, too. [[Intercoms from Jobbik's ranks. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Schiffer represents the Hungarian state in the lawsuits! The president's ringing the bell.]] the Coronary Virus Emergency Extension Act here in Parliament last week. Then it wasn't those big words, it was just a push of a button to keep us from losing a week, but somehow he didn't do that. You're here to tell me that we need it quickly and we need as much as possible. The protective equipment that came to the general practitioners helped precisely the basic care, i.e. the basic care provided as a local government, and in many other areas, government decisions prevent and help many people. This is an additional burden for all governments and for all municipalities in Hungary and in other countries. Obviously, this is why the high budgetary reserve is important. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] which you attacked because of that we have just been able to turn to this purpose. You saw the dictatorship at the time in taking away the right of budgetary provision from Parliament, well, this has now facilitated a rapid defence. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-238	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Mónika Bartos, representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade an immediate question: could the return of Hungarians stranded abroad continue? It's an address. Due to his absence, Minister Levente has appointed Deputy Minister of Hungary to reply. I ask you, do you accept the person of the responder, or... [[Mónika Bartos: Yes.]] Yeah. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-03-30-239	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to turn on a question that some of my fellow Members have already addressed from another aspect, because I consider it very important. Almost two months ago, seven Hungarian citizens from Vuhan affected by the corona virus were able to return to Hungary with the help of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Since their arrival, hundreds of Hungarians have been brought home. This organised assistance is needed because most countries have closed their airports in recent weeks, so it is impossible to get home with regular flights. The work that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade has done in recent years is unparalleled in order to help our stranded countrymen. A week ago, the news of 1,500 Hungarians returned home, and today we heard from the Foreign Minister and Foreign Minister that the foreign action group set up for this purpose has helped 5583 Hungarian citizens return home. In the midst of shrinking opportunities, the greatest repatriation process of all time is a huge achievement and requires real teamwork. This unfortunate crisis encourages the foreign policymakers in the region to work in a more coordinated way than before. As is known, these days, with the intervention of the EMMI, 43 of our compatriots came home from Israel through Bulgaria. In Delhi 44 Hungarians await their return home. Minister Péter Szijjártó informed us today that these days, with Polish help, they can be back in Hungary. However, according to the news, there are isolated African and South American relations, from which it seems almost impossible for Hungarians stranded there to come home. That is why I ask Mr Secretary of State how the return of Hungarians stranded abroad can continue. Are there still opportunities to bring home our countrymen from isolated countries? Thank you very much for your reply.
u2020-03-30-240	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, The immediate question will be answered by Secretary of State, Hungarian Levente, Deputy Minister. You have the floor.
u2020-03-30-241	Thank you very much for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, It is true that the last few days and the last few weeks have been hard work, since we have had to bring home thousands of our countrymen, in many cases it is not exaggeration, to rescue them from countries that have introduced serious restrictive measures in relation to the spread of the coronal virus in relation to entry and exit. This is not always a simple job, as it was often necessary to bring dozens or hundreds of Hungarians from quite exotic places. At the same time, I can tell you that this work has not once been stopped because we have encountered irresistible obstacles, in any case we will find a solution. Thank you for the words of appreciation, but at the same time I would like to stress that the State Department is only doing its job. I think we've done nothing more than our duty. What else would the work of the State Department be about at a time when thousands of Hungarians are in a difficult situation around the world, rather than giving these people the widest possible assistance. I think that the system has passed a good test so far, that we have been able to avoid any initial disruptions, and I can tell you that all 155 Hungarian foreign representations, from the embassy to the consular offices, have done the best they can to help these countrymen. Let some of the figures be presented in support of the extent of this operation. So far we have brought Hungarians home from 106 countries, so far Hungary has organised 5 separate planes and 12 separate bus services, and another 5 special flights and special flights with airplanes are organized. We can promise everyone that whoever is in trouble will be helped wherever he is in the world, just as no one has ever been left where he wanted to return to his homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-03-30-242	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, I give the floor for a rejoinder to the congresswoman. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-243	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reassuring words. Think about how desperate and vulnerable those who see every gate closing in front of them are, in order to be able to come home to Hungary, not to mention that Hungary is our home to us Hungarians. We would like to spend this period at home, this period of hard work, and it is very good to see, to know and feel for all Hungarian citizens that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the External Action Task Force are helping them to get through this difficult period here in Hungary, in the security of the home. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-30-244	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I'll give the floor to the Deputy Minister in return. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-245	I would like to thank once again, Madam Member, and everyone else, who is grateful for the effort that has been made by the foreign affairs staff. Once again, the credit is paid to our colleagues who work in the field, who go out in the field, often in very dangerous places to get a Hungarian out of there. The intensity and scale of this work may be confirmed by the fact that for the third week now Hungarian citizens return to Hungary in the order of 100 per day. In the last 24 hours, the number of these citizens is 694. So from yesterday afternoon until this afternoon, nearly 700 Hungarian citizens from all over the world have been successful with the intervention of the foreign affairs, this does not always mean the direct involvement of the State Department in effective repatriation, but let's say that with the consent of the State Department, nearly 700 people have been brought home. We are continuing this work, but at the same time we need to see how the possibilities are ending, more and more flights are closing, so we are asking everyone to leave the foreign country where they are so that they can get home in time. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-30-246	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the debate on immediate questions, and we will continue our work with our next agenda. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 1992 LXVI on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses for the purpose of indicating the place of origin. a discussion of the Commission's reports on the proposal to amend Act I of 2010 on the registrar procedure and of the summarised amendment proposal. Presentation submitted by Alpár Gyopáros, Máté Kocsis, László Tasó, Csaba Nagy and László Vigh, Fidesz, Members T/9473. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the legislative committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-247	[[No microphones.]] Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, [[Intercoms, among them: No sound!]] Yeah, I know.
u2020-03-30-248	I'd like to use a standing microphone to help the congressman out right away. It has an orced voice, but the whole Chamber is not able to pick up its voice with sufficient force. [[Csaba Nagy has a hand microphone placed in front of him.]] [[17.20]]
u2020-03-30-249	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 26 March 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the 1992 LXVI on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses for the purpose of indicating the place of origin. Act T/9473 amending Act I of 2010 on the Registration Procedure Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal, the summary report by the committee of the House Rule 46. By 27 votes in favour, no votes against, with 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, In many rural settlements in Hungary, children are born not in the settlement where the parents live, but in the nearby larger settlements, towns and towns with county rights. According to the rules in force, the place of birth, which is the place of birth, shall appear in the document appropriate to the personal certificate. In such a case, the place of birth is separated from the place of origin, the place of birth, the village of birth, the hometown, which makes it difficult to connect to the place and to preserve it. During the social consultation organised in the framework of the Hungarian village, the people of the villages in particular made their request for the place of origin to appear in the personal documents as well. Since 1991, the register also indicates the place of origin in addition to the place of birth, but the place of origin is not a natural person identification data. It is necessary to ensure that references to origin can appear not only in the case of those born after 1991 and not only in the register, but also in the document used in everyday life. On this basis, the purpose of the proposal is to include data on origin in the identity card in addition to the registration. In order to achieve this goal, the 1992 LXVI on the registration of citizens' personal data and addresses is necessary. Act 1 and the amendment of Act I of 2010 on the Civil Registration Procedure. In addition to infrastructural developments, the Magyar választérú program also offers a great opportunity to strengthen identity awareness at local and local level, but not only on the event management programme elements, but also through the confirmation of this amendment proposal on personal documents. Ladies and gentlemen, However, respect for rural life, which is expected and deserved, can and should not only be achieved through infrastructure improvements or direct financial support, but also through legislative action that recognises the people's emotional attachment to the birthplace. Therefore, I think that the bill presented by Máté Kocsis, László Tasó and László Vigh, under the leadership of Alpár Gyopáros, should be supported, because it can greatly help to strengthen the local identity of citizens living and born in rural settlements. Thank you for listening.
u2020-03-30-250	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, State Secretary Balázs Orbán indicated that he would like to speak on behalf of the Government at a later date. I would like to inform you that the designated Justice Committee has not presented a rapporteur. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group.
u2020-03-30-251	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Fellow Members! The proposal is clearly a political communication document, which has no real impact, has a purely symbolic effect. In addition to the political communication turnaround, it is worth observing some of the processes in the countryside that are reflected in the fall of the countryside and the deterioration of the quality of rural life. I think this is the result of Fidesz's governance, but let's look at what they are, because I still want to be optimistic and hope that they will also deal with it. The number of permanently unfilled GPs and dentists has reached record sizes, with 409 permanently unfilled GPs and 239 permanently unfilled Dentist districts in the country. These deficits mainly concern small settlements, where they can typically only replace the provision of general medical and dental care. There are drastic differences in the quality of hospital care between different parts of the country. The difference is so large that the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights stated in a report that the situation already violates the requirements of equal treatment. He said this on the grounds that the lack of vascular surgeons had reached such an extent that, between amputation or rescue of a foot, he often decided where the patient lived, and this could encourage the rural population to move to Budapest or to more advanced cities for better health care. Of the regions in the European Union, the regions in Hungary are incredibly underdeveloped, no region in Hungary achieves the EU average in 2019; only Budapest and the Pest county region are close to it. The number of flights was reduced on railway lines, which in many cases increased travel time by half an hour, despite the fact that the government had previously identified rail transport as an engine for maintaining the population in the countryside. Despite this, for example, on the Pápa-Győr line, fast train traffic has virtually ceased and, unfortunately, bus services have also been reduced. In addition, there was a 2019 index question about how much the government respected its high-speed internet deployment program. I can say that in many settlements, Páty, Csehbánya, Pápa villages, Ajka, Sajókeresztúr, Cegléd, Vászoly, Tordas, Magyartelek, Salgótarján, Pusztaszabolcson, Kecskemét suburb, Szolnok, Nyírtelek, Bácsalmási district, Körmend district and Sukorón, the Internet promised is not satisfactory. After the proposal itself is a symbolic bill, as I have indicated, beyond increasing the administrative burden of government agencies, with no other legally measurable results, but the Hungarian countryside, I think, needs not only symbolic gestures, but also real steps. However, we support the proposal. Thank you.
u2020-03-30-252	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members, who would like to comment on the topics on the item on the agenda. [[No one's reporting.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. State Secretary Balázs Orbán indicated that he wished to speak on behalf of the government. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-03-30-253	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I would like to thank all parties represented in Parliament for their support for the bill. I see that this will also be a bill that will receive support in this House beyond party policy logic. We think this is an important proposal. We believe that life is not only of a material nature, but it is a matter of attachment, place of birth and origin, and proof of that is an important issue, and in this the proposal pays back an old deficiency, a hiatus. That is why we thank you very much for your support. If I recall the general debate, we managed to turn far away from the original text of the bill and, in fact, the proposal turned into a debate day on the situation in a rural area. Obviously, this is the nature of politics, but since it has also been said in Mrs Gurmai's speech, it is my honour to respond briefly to this fact that one of the main objectives of the Fidesz-KDNP government, which came into power after 2010, is to reduce the backwardness of the countryside and to work off the lack of respect for the exception since the change of regime. In this, unfortunately, I must say, Madam Member, that you have led the way by the Government of MSZP-SZDSZ, which you supported between 2002 and 2010. During that period, rail and other road transport were decommissioned, the infrastructure of small settlements was rebuilt and development resources were diverted from small settlements in some other direction. The fact that this is so, and how much the citizens thought so, is well shown by the results of the elections, where the formerly significant Hungarian Socialist Party has been horribly present for example for many years and cycles. [[17 .30]] The fact that this is different now and that the government is also trying to focus on improving the quality of life of people living in the smallest settlements shows that the elections that have passed since then and the government's results in the elections that have since passed, which show that the people living in the smallest settlements feel that they are finally being taken care of. We framed this with a program. We have named the government initiative in a structured form, which specifically aims at maintaining the population of settlements below 5,000 inhabitants. This is a complex programme in which, through the development of the small-town road network, the so-called village CSOK, specifically in addition to the small-town home support programme elements, infrastructure development is also implemented in the fields of health, transport, community space and other areas. This programme worked with a budget of HUF 150 billion last year, and despite the fact that this year we are facing a difficult budgetary situation in relation to the control of the coronal virus epidemic, our plan is to continue this program. In fact, our plan, and this programme, really has an impact and meaning, is that, for many years, we can devote at least a similar amount of resources, domestic budgetary resources, to improving the situation of people living in the smallest settlements. We therefore believe that the accusation made in the general debate, and in the mouth of the Member, is unworthy. But since the Congresswoman has also reached the final point of support for the bill after a long introduction, I would like to thank her for this, and I would also like to thank the other groups in advance for their support. We believe that an old and important wish of the inhabitants of the countryside and the smallest settlements can be fulfilled by not only being able to carry the objective place of birth in their identity card, but also the actual place of origin and attachment. In similar cases, such as the issue of simplified localizations, these gestures were important in the case of Hungarians across the border, and I think they are important now. It is particularly fortunate that both the opposition and the government side agree in the end, despite all the debates. Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President.
u2020-03-30-254	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Csaba Nagy, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate on behalf of the authors. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-03-30-255	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House of Representatives, I feel very, very much the same way as in the general debate, where there was a lot of talk about the Hungarian village programme, as well as about the bill. First of all, I would like to thank Zita Gurmai for telling me that they will eventually support this bill. However, from here on in, I can only express differences in our positions. But that may not be a problem, because we are talking about rural Hungary, the program of the Hungarian village, which has been missing for the last thirty years, and the past period is definitely marked in relation to the changes in the system. I am very pleased that the Hungarian village programme was launched in 2019 by the government. Mr. Secretary of State has already mentioned this HUF 150 billion. My fellow Members and I held a lot of forums in the country, and one of these forums, held by Alpár Gyopáros, also raised a positive view of this proposal. I think that this is not a political proposal. This is a proposal that is important for rural Hungary. I think it is very important that this law will provide an opportunity for people to decide for themselves whether or not to use this option to preserve their identity. If we look at what Mrs Gurmai Zita said in her speech, I would like to say that the previous governments led by the current government and the Prime Minister have made a great deal of effort to increase the number of doctors. Statistical data clearly show that thousands more doctors work in Hungary today than, say, ten to fifteen years ago. I also have to say that special programmes have been launched in relation to rural Hungary for the renewal of medical offices. Such a program has been launched in the rural development programme and such program has been launched in the Hungarian village programme. And to give you one or two specific examples, I would like to give you an example from my own constituency. With us, five medical offices were able to renew, and 27 municipalities were able to start development in the field of medical equipment procurement. These programmes were launched in the following year, i.e. in 2020. Seven programmes have already been announced this year. And I have to say that in this respect, since the change of regime, there has not been such an effective programme with such content, which would serve the development of rural Hungary. I would like to say once again that I would like to thank the ministerial staff who worked behind the bill, and I would like to thank Alpár Gyopáros for taking this process through, because it was not easy. I hope that the following year everyone who wishes can read their origins in their ID card. I'd like to make another parentheses comment. I would very much like to see a special program in which parents, parents, are informed that they have an opportunity to indicate the place of origin in the registers and to indicate this information in respect of their child when receiving the ID card. Thank you very much for your attention and thank you all very much for your support. [[Applause in the ranks of Fidesz.]]
u2020-03-30-256	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Decisions will be taken at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the presentation of the Protocol to the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part, with a view to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, and the debate on the draft amending proposal follow. The government referral is T/9467. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. I declare that the presentation will be discussed as an EU item on the agenda by the Parliament. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Csaba Nagy, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-03-30-257	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 26 March 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the publication of the T/9467 Protocol to the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Korea, of the other part, on the basis of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Bill No. 1. The summary report and the summary amendment proposal are set out in Article 46 of the House Rules. It adopted it unanimously by 28 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, There has been a diplomatic relationship between the Republic of Korea and Hungary for more than 31 years, which has been characterised by mutual friendship and cooperation ever since. South Korea is one of the world's largest and most innovative economies, one of the central players in the government's Eastern opening policy. We are currently maintaining a three-level, bilateral, V4 and EU cooperation system with the country. In addition, in November our countries also concluded a cooperation agreement on defence policy and research and development. The development of military relations is also shown by the fact that since 2016 Seoul has been operating a defence agency in Budapest. I also think it is important to mention that the Hungarian-Korea Joint Committee on Economic Cooperation held its third meeting in December, on the outskirts of which the Hungarian Government concluded a strategic agreement with the Korean Development Bank, which would open a regional centre in Hungary and further encourage Korean investments. At the same time, we opened the Hungarian cultural institute in Seoul, i.e. we can see that the cooperation between the two parties has been strengthened in recent months. Ladies and gentlemen, The adoption of the bill before us is an important step in both Korean-Hungarian and Korean-EU relations. In view of this, we declare the proposed legislation to be supported. Thank you for listening.
u2020-03-30-258	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, indicated that he wished to speak on behalf of the authors at a later stage in the debate. [[17.40]] I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that the designated Committee on Foreign Affairs has not presented a rapporteur. Representatives will now take part in the speeches. I'm asking if anyone would like to take this opportunity. Yes, Congresswoman Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-03-30-259	Thank you very much. The relations between the European Union and the Republic of Korea are currently governed by the Trade and Cooperation Agreement, which entered into force in 2001, and in the years since then it has become clear that cooperation goes well beyond the trade area covered by this Agreement, and it is therefore necessary to establish a new, higher-level, agreed relationship system. On 10 May 2010, the European Union and its Member States signed the Agreement establishing an association between the two parties in Brussels. The document provides for cooperation in the field of human rights protection, the fight against terrorism, and provides for greater cooperation in the fight against climate change, illegal migration, money laundering, drug trafficking, organised crime and corruption. The Republic of Croatia became part of the European Union on 1 July 2013 and undertakes to accede to the Agreement by means of the Protocol; it is, in fact, a routine accession to an agreement signed ten years ago. The Hungarian Socialist Party supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you very much.
u2020-03-30-260	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I'm asking if anyone else would like to take the opportunity to speak. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Orbán, State Secretary, who wishes to speak on behalf of the rapporteur. Here you go.
u2020-03-30-261	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, I too very briefly: thank you very much for your constructive attitude and support. Even in these times of distress, it is clear how important Asia's developed countries can be to the European Union's economic and political partners. So I believe that today in the Hungarian Parliament there must be even less justification for the eligibility and importance of this bill than before, let us say, when it was clear that trade and cultural relations between South Korea and Hungary were flourishing. But this framework agreement, which was concluded earlier between the European Union and South Korea, will allow us to work together in areas where we need to tackle common threats and help to prepare for and share information in these matters. We can think of illegal migration, terrorism, or even the current epidemic threat. This is indeed a technical amendment to the legal procedure necessary for Croatia's accession. Thank you very much for your support.
u2020-03-30-262	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. Dear Parliament, In view of the fact that no faction has asked for an interpellation and a question, these items will not be discussed. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Anita Potocsáné Kőrösi, Member of the Jobbik Group, applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-03-30-263	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, More has been said in recent days about the very difficult situation of municipalities since the announcement of the emergency. They have been given a number of tasks that they will try hard to do, beyond all their strength, but let's face it, the resources that are missing will be missed even more in the coming days. It is enough to think only of government measures that people over the age of 70 must be treated as compulsory by the municipalities. Very well, because they know the elderly who live in their settlement, they know who really needs to be helped. And to feed these elderly people over 70 years of age, it is essential that they have the right logistics and human resources. Human resources can still be solved by public workers who may now be freed from human resources due to the shift in working schedules between schools and kindergartens, but it must be acknowledged that the solution to logistics, even the fuelling of motor vehicles, costs money. It's a very serious amount of money. And these municipalities, especially small municipalities, can hardly live up to this without a source. These tasks, which need to be carried out by local authorities in the event of an emergency, raise further problems. After all, we can see that even in the tourism sector and in addition to Lake Balaton, the municipalities will be very seriously confronted with the fact that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said that the hook to the tourist season and we can see the signs of this, because not only in the event of an emergency, but most obviously because of that, both restaurants, boarding houses and various tourist services are not able to continue to operate, and therefore there have been a lot of job seekers and a lot of people have lost their jobs. We also need substantial help from our fellow countrymen, because we need to make up for the loss of income and help the municipalities. There is no question, however, that those who have lost their jobs will primarily turn to the mayor of the settlement, and the more people turn, the more that budget vibrates, and today I am very sad to hear Prime Minister Viktor Orbán's reply to an immediate question when he said that the central budget will be amended and that this will also be expected of the local authorities. Yes, but it has not been said that support will also be given to the municipalities for the additional tasks they face every day. And then let's go to another area. There is very little mention of minority self-governments and, in particular, of Roma minority self-governments. There has been a very serious misinformation from the President of the National Roma Municipality, János Agócs. He said that even at the expense of their sources of operation, the Roma national governments could grant five and three thousand forints of support to our fellow Roma nationalities. Yes, it was just by misinformed these self-governments, the minority self-governments, and many fell into this trap. In Hungary, the number of Roma minority self-governments over 1200 to whom our countrymen now turn to help and receive help, because that information was given to them by the President of the National Roma Municipality. And let's face it, municipalities, national authorities have very low budgets, and they cannot solve the fact that they have real social assistance, packages or even cleaning products. Those responsible for this misinformation must be named, because when these investigations are carried out, who has given such social benefits from its operating costs will then be held accountable to representatives of the national self-government. There'll be thousands of them in the country. I would like to ask you, with all due respect, to do everything in your power of accountability and to help these municipalities. Not only municipal self-governments, but also Roma minority self-governments, because more and more people will need help, and this assistance will be necessary in months' time, and resources will also have to be provided for this. This way, please. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-30-264	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Member Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group has also applied for a post- Agenda address:. Less lies, fairer governance! It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-03-30-265	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We've been living in a system of government misdirection for ten years, but we didn't think that even in the event of a coronal virus epidemic, political gain was what the government was doing. He is submitting a law that is not necessary at all, because the Disaster Protection Act and the Fundamental Law determine everything the government can and must do. He will demonstrate with soldiers, while the Minister of the Interior and those responsible for disaster management, as well as the Minister of Finance, would have to do so according to the laws voted by Fidesz. [[17.50]] Instead of informing the public in order to defend itself, it is also tuning political adverts against the opposition, also spending public money. He's hiding real medical data, manipulating the causes of death of dead people, as we read in Miklós Kásler's letter. It doesn't test, even though the most important means of preventing an epidemic and protecting it would be to test it. The filling of oligarchs rich in public funds around the Prime Minister with money continues. This is particularly evident when we talk about the EU's support for some EUR 2000 billion. Because no one on the government's side told me what this is about, I'm doing it now. The EU has proposed to Member States that they can draw funds from the Cohesion Funds for investment, and allow them not to be used for that purpose, but for the purpose of defence. In other words, the government could have done so by not making investments filling the pockets of the oligarchs, but by using this resource for defence and subsequent economic development. The Hungarian government said that it does not take advantage of this, because the feeding of oligarchs is more important. Since the creation of the disaster protection law in 2011, the government has not performed at all the tasks required by the law, such as the institution of disaster relief. According to this, in order to ensure that the consequences of the disaster are eliminated, it is necessary to ensure the livelihood of citizens from the reserve set up in the central budget. Have we heard anything about this in the last few weeks? Or the emergency response plan, which is clearly described, is a central, regional, municipal and workplace document system with disaster prevention tasks to be carried out during the disaster period. Have we heard about this? We didn't hear anything. According to the disaster management law, a national disaster management information system should have been established. If it had been this system, it would have worked perfectly for everyone to know what to do and inform citizens. In the annual budget law, appropriations for domestic assistance should be planned, which could be spent exclusively to protect this in the event of a disaster. He should be running a government coordination body under the law, which didn't happen, because if he did, we would have at least heard about it. The Minister for Disaster Protection is the Minister of the Interior. I'd like to ask you where Sándor Pintér is, because we hope he's not coronal because according to the law, he should be on the front line, not the military. In addition, the Minister of the Interior is responsible for the protection of critical infrastructures, which requires the approval of the central emergency response plan. We haven't heard of that either. We can therefore conclude that, although there is government propaganda on how the opposition is rooting for the virus, which in itself is a huge stupidity, because it is the one who is rooting for the virus, who wants to get sick, but beyond that, it is only the persecution of the opposition that is characteristic of government activity. We, the opposition, want to do everything possible, whether by volunteering or by making suggestions or by approving laws, so that our country can get out of this huge problem with as little loss as possible, as few people as possible get sick, die, and as few people as possible lose their jobs, and get into the fate of existential inability. I'm asking the government to stop the propaganda and do your job. Do what you've been asked to do many times, and you've been given the voter's permission. We're here to hear people's voices, and we're here to demand that if we already have laws, then we have to follow them. This is the guarantee that Hungary's population will get out of this terrible problem with as few victims as possible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-03-30-266	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Mr Csaba Gyüre, Jobbik Group, also applied for a post- Agenda address: Mr Kisvárda was re-elected as a city 50 years ago. I'll give the floor to Congressman.
u2020-03-30-267	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, My hometown, Kisvárda, became a city just 50 years ago. Kisvárda is bordered by two landscapes, the Nyírség és Rétköz. The town was built in the swampy area of Rétköz. The highest point is very interesting, as it is a settlement in the lowlands of Mount Assony, 139 meters high, but in the city it is called a mountain. The city's climate is shaped by the nearby Zemplén Mountains and the Carpathian Mountains. His name was given from the land castle from the time of the conquest, and this was already done before. What does "the castle" mean? This minimizing device, the letter d, at the end of the word, means a castle, and from here comes the names of Nagyvárad and Kisvárda, from which it will come later to distinguish the two Castles, so Nagyvárad received the big one, and Kisvárda had a small one, because it was a smaller settlement. The Hungarians took possession of it at the time of the reservation. He built a border defense system with the centre of Kisvárda. The border county of Borsova was one of the first counties to be formed. In 1085 St. László defeated Kutesk kun here, and in memory of the victory he built a church on the nearby hill. It's the centre of Kisvárda today, and it's true that it's rebuilt, but this church still stands. Annex XII is replaced by the following: The city already has a significant economic role in the century. At this point, they have weekly fairs in Kisvárda. The name of the city is closely linked to the Várday family, which owned this area. The Várday family came from the Gutkeled family, the ancient owner. The Várday family was mentioned as early as the 1200s. In 1415 the Várday family, including the Várday Pelbart, received permission from King Zsigmond of Luxembourg to build a castle, which will boost the city. In 1421 Kisvárda received the right to hold a national fair, and the king granted city law, so Kisvárda received the city title 599 years ago. The Várday family is at its peak during the reign of King Matthias. Archbishop and Cardinal István Várday, Archbishop of Bács Kalocsa, the chief and secret chancellor of King Matthias will rebuild the castle between 1465 and 71. Thirty craftsmen and many, many serfs worked on the construction site. The first preserved private letter is also in Hungarian and is linked to the Várday family, which was written in Hungarian. In 1486 Aladár Várday sent the letter from Visegrád to his brother Miklós Várday to Kisvárda. At the beginning of the 1500s Ferenc Várday, the Transylvanian bishop of Transylvania built an outer castle about the castle from a wall of 3 metres wide, filled with deep water, surrounded by swamps, with a rook on four or four corners. After 1526 there's a war on the throne. The Várday family first joins János Szapolyai, then Ferdinand I. As a result, the Transylvanian armies have been invading the city three times without success. Pál Várday expands the castle as Archbishop of Esztergom. The castle will have three new Italian bulwarks and three old-fashioned bastions under the direction of Italian military engineer Ottavio Baldigara. In 1583, the Várday family dies with the death of King Michael Várday, chief glassmaster, and they die on a man's side. Then the castle and the city will be owned by the Nyáryak, Esterházyak, Homonnaak, Zichyk. In 1591 the first guild of the city, the Bootsadiacéh, was formed. CHAPTER XVI-XVII century Szabolcs Castle County is the center of the city. Article 19 shall apply from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. There will be another boom in the century, but before that, a word or two about Rákóczi, as he visited the settlement four times, the main center of supply, the detention centre, the county administration centre, the accommodation of the transferors. After 1711 he loses his significance, and then the castle begins to deteriorate. The walls fall down or part of the castle. The first document on the protection of monuments comes from here, one of the first Hungarians, in which the walls of the castle must be protected in 1828. Further progress continued to the point of quadrupling the 19th century. At the end of the century, the population of Kisvárda, the level of urbanization, increased, and that is why the Presidential Council of the Hungarian People's Republic decided on Friday 27 February 1970, following the government's presentation, to declare Kisvárda a city with effect from 1 April 1970. [[18.00]] Congratulations on the 600-year-old and 50-year-old city, wishing all the inhabitants of the city good health. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-03-30-268	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Member Gergely Kálló, Jobbik Group also applied for an after-the-date speech. What about the Volán? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-30-269	Ladies and gentlemen, Dear House, Mr President, I did not wish to give my sermon on this subject and under such circumstances. I wanted to talk to you about early retirements, the program of modern cities, but the law of necessity is broken, so I have to present to you other problems from my constituents and find a solution with you. The emergency situation and curfew have led to a new, unprecedented situation for Hungary and its residents. Many measures have been taken, which have raised even more questions, since, let's face it, this has never been the case in our modern democracy, so we have little experience at our disposal. That is also the case with public transport, which I would like to speak about now. My constituency is located in the southeast part of Fejér county, so it is vital for us to provide Volán service, despite the curfew. To carry out work and to obtain basic food, many of us need to take the bus, so the smooth operation of the system is essential. I would note here that it is useful and necessary that the use of the first door has been stopped, thus protecting the drivers, but unfortunately, the consequences of a lot of measures have not been considered, we have not considered. I've had a lot of people come to me who don't have a ticket, and so far they've bought the ticket from the driver. Unfortunately, it is not possible for them to buy tickets without obstacles, as however incredible, there are some people who do not use smartphones, or who may not have bank accounts, which are essential for buying tickets through the application. This Volán application is already operating at a weak level, as it is not possible to buy a ticket at the expense of the telephone bill, which would simplify the situation. There is no ticket available for those who board in a place where neither a ticket box nor an automatic can be found. Here we not only cause inconvenience to passengers, but also to lose the company that is already in difficulty. There are many questions that have still not been answered since the introduction of strict measures. But not only are there questions about passengers, to which we are still unable to answer, but there is also a lack of information from local authorities and workers at Volán. At present, the municipalities that I am monitoring are distributing their financial resources on a pharmacy scale. We need to be able to find a solution together, whether by involving additional public resources, in the municipalities where buses are operated for loss compensation, because the extra disinfection and cleaning are also a huge burden. There is also fear in workers, since the thinning of flights can make them exempt from work. They should also be able to make payments if they are forced to rest longer periods. There's one thing we need to be clear about. In order for the country to be able to operate in such difficult times, public transport must also be able to function well. There are a lot of problems in this regard that need to be resolved immediately. We will be partners in solving the problems that arise, but we need to take action as soon as possible. Finally, allow me to express my gratitude and respect for those workers who operate this country in a difficult situation with their work: doctors, nurses, cleaning women, loaders, shop sellers, transporters, thank you to everyone. You're the brave ones, no matter what you say. Thank you. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-03-30-270	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group also applied for a post-the-meet speech:.How long? You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-30-271	Mr President, Dear House, When it comes to MMA, for many people, the Hungarian Academy of Arts comes by, for others mixed martial arts as mixed martial arts. For decades, I have typically acquired second association as an athlete, and indeed from Conor McGregor to Nika Dávid, there are countless warriors whom we can be proud of. I'm also proud of this sport, if at a very amateur level, but I could taste it myself. Now, however, we would like to share a third association with you, and this is about the Hungarian employment protection fund, because we are trying to introduce a new institution, if you like, a new brand name, which makes it understandable that for the masses of Hungarian people the income that has been able to guarantee the basic safety of their families has now fallen and that we have to replace this loss of income. We can also see, and today Parliament has quoted a great deal of this statistical data, that about 36 percent of Hungarian citizens have a maximum of one month's reserves or much less. A lot of people don't have one at all. And we see that, since one third of Hungarian citizens and breadwinners are already in a difficult situation without measurable reserves, we cannot act as Prime Minister. The Prime Minister says that we need to keep as many jobs as possible, in fact all of them, and so far we agree in the sentence. At the same time, he imagines this by trying to cape the holders of existing jobs with contributions, tax and other discounts in order to maintain these jobs. But what about the people, the hosts, the guides, the language teachers, the transport industry, for whom the opportunity to realise income is simply impossible? We see that full economic branches are being destroyed, and when the Fidesz minister sitting next to Viktor Orbán notes that hundreds of thousands of jobs will disappear in the coming weeks and months, we must agree with him. Yes, so the government is also likely to see this problem; and if they see this problem, they must intervene in some way. Not forever, not unconditionally, and not without all circumstances, but we do need to help those who had paid yesterday, and today they do not. How can we do that? First, we can see that we need a financial reserve in the order of hundreds and thousands of billions. With regard to financial reserves, we can expect three feet: the margin of manoeuvre of the state and the budget, the deposit of the most capitalised domestic companies, which can then be returned on different roads, in the form of contributions or tax incentives; and thirdly, financial frameworks that can be measured from the direction of the rest of the world can be released in the near future. With the help and mediation of the labour centres, it is necessary to create an accessible fund to which the employer who is unable to raise the wages of his employees can basically apply, the self-employed or bt.-participant who has so far been able to settle his monthly livelihood through his small company, but can no longer do so. Also, you can apply for the help of someone whose entire economic sector is insufferable. With a public background, at least 80% of the wage certified in the last 3-6 months must be guaranteed, I repeat, from this common hat, in such a way that the possibility of supplementing to 100 per cent should be maintained for the employer. On a second trail, you can obviously talk about the flexibility of the workplace, the flexibility of the job and, where appropriate, changes in working time. Not that we want to make the reduction in working time during the 2008 German model crisis an independent sample, but in some sectors it is still better to keep a job with reduced capacity than to lose it, so we need to open these gates. I would like to emphasise once again: I am not expecting a HUF 880 thousand dotation per family available in Japan in Hungary, nor the USD 2400 available in the US, which you can milk with another USD 500 to 500 per child. But it is so that those who have lost their income without their own fault can go somewhere, and then we have to start talking about families in difficulty, because a moratorium on the remuneration will be required within months, as crowds will be in an impossible situation, and also a moratorium should be introduced on small pensions, small earnings, and also on penalties of 33 percent and 50 percent, as in the cases mentioned above. This is a national minimum that I feel every honest and well-spoken patriot must stand up to. Thank you for the opportunity. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] [[18.10]]
u2020-03-30-272	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, Mr Gergely Farkas, Jobbik Group asked for a speech on the situation caused by the Crown Virus and on government tasks. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-30-273	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, A lot of people have been looking for me in the last few days, in the last week or two from my constituency complaining about the situation that this situation has caused their families, the coronal virus. I would like to bring these complaints here, while respecting the fact that, of course, the government has a lot of work to do now, and we are taking this into account; but on the other hand, we also have to take into account that these families are in a very serious situation and are looking for urgent proposals for solutions in order to alleviate their situation. Not surprisingly, the biggest, most complaints were related to the loss of family income. Some people, for example, have lost their wages, or some entrepreneurs, where there is no income, no income, and in any case it would be necessary to make up for them so that the government can somehow provide help. Several of my fellow Members have said that Jobbik is proposing to set up a fund for the protection of jobs, which would serve the purpose of taking over the loss of income by the government, and we say that 80%. And how this is not an example from the air, it is enough to bring up the countries where they have already escaped. Among other things, the state is in Britain, the Czech Republic, Poland, Bulgaria, Romania, where there are 90, there are 80, there are 75, where it gives a 60 percent wage supplement to those who have lost their jobs or are not earning income. However, the list shows what countries we are talking about. Bulgaria and Romania could not be said to be in a better position than us, but they did, so I hope that the Hungarian government will take this step as soon as possible. Here, in the case of a loss of wages, it is also important to mention those who work in undeclared work. Unfortunately, there are some, I know, in my constituency, for example, agricultural workers or other areas. This is not the situation, I think, where they should be taught that it is tax evasion. Of course, that would be true, but when these people are almost literally on the verge of starving to death, it might also be worth considering the need to help them. This loss of income could lead to a situation of public security, which could be serious. I don't want to paint the devil on the wall, but if there's a situation where families don't have income, reserves, or even run out, then it's not out of the question that some people are going to try to create the financial resources or other things they need to make a living in different ways. So in this respect, it would be very good to prevent and help people not to get worse so far. A lot of people in my constituency have complained about the question of why there are no more tests, why they don't have people run more tests. Some people have already said they'd pay for it, they'd like to, but they didn't have the chance. Here, too, I would like to offer an international example to the government: everyone is being tested in Bucharest, for example. If the results of the tests in Bucharest justify it, then the other major cities will start filtering the entire population. In Romania, the Minister of Health said that medical teams should conduct house - to - house inspections on a South Korean sample. According to the Minister's estimate, Romania will be past the 200th test this weekend. We have yesterday's news of maybe 12,000 tests. Well, there's a difference. There was a suggestion about the free bus:. Yesterday we wanted to take the bus home from work, the driver indicated that there was no cash ticketing, only a mobile ticket can be purchased. We understand, of course, it's justified, but many of us, I'm not, and we're prepared for that. Yes, we must also think about the age group who is not prepared for this, and we also need to find a way to solve this problem. There is still talk about the situation at animal shelters, perhaps even less attention has been given to this in recent times. I would like to quote from a constituencies resident:. The shelters and animal welfare associations are not to be visited, so it is not possible to adopt them. I can see that the associations are asking for help, because the new dogs are constantly getting in, but they can't adopt one. We could recommend a few hundred grand a month to keep them up. This would also be an important thing, as would the use of empty hotels. Tourism has been reduced, since then there is no income for workers in this sector, but a lot of people and unfortunately, more and more people will be forced to be quarantined. It would be worth considering to the State that these hotels could be used, so that a small income could be made for these operators, and at the same time, the people who belong there will surely be quarantined. I have also received a complaint about the situation of foreign exchange lenders, because of the short period of time I cannot explain this, but the point is that the factoring companies still need a moratorium when the factoring company has already paid off the debt, but the family still has to pay its debt. So there would be a number of proposals [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] What the government has to do. I ask the government to take these necessary and urgent steps to help people as soon as possible. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-03-30-274	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr Péter Ágh, Fidesz Group, also came forward after the agenda, with the title of the North Vas County in the emergency situation of the coronal virus epidemic. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-03-30-275	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, It has not yet been a month since we learned about the first registered case of the coronal virus epidemic in Hungary on 4 March. As you may recall, the first patient was reported on March 15th. In recent weeks, it has become clear that, as in the world, the infectious virus may be present anywhere in Hungary. In preparation for our country's involvement, the operational tribe was established at the end of January. The work of the LAGs that have been established since then is continuously reported by the Prime Minister. Thus, we have already been informed of a number of decisions that provide concrete assistance. It was a new level of defense when an emergency was announced on 11 March. Last week, we were unable to make a decision that would have extended this by the irresponsible conduct of the opposition. However, in today's vote on 30 March, it became clear that the Hungarian people can count on the pro-government representatives. Thus, with the support of the Fidesz, KDNP fraction, we were able to adopt the bill on the protection of the Crown Virus. For us, the most important thing is to protect health and life. This situation also shows that everyone has a personal responsibility in the fight against the virus. As in the legislative process, so here in Parliament, we must do everything we can to combat the pandemic, and each can act with his or her own actions. In this context, I continue to respectfully ask the inhabitants of my constituency, North Vas County, to comply with the government's provisions and requests in order to protect each other's health. In this respect, it should be pointed out in particular that a curfew has been in place since 28 March. The 77 settlements of Northern Vas County are no exception. Protecting against the spread of the virus has fundamentally changed our everyday lives. I know it's a trying time, but it's the only way we can take care of each other. For this reason, I respectfully ask anyone who can stay at home. Slowing down the spread of the virus is our shared responsibility. It is also particularly important that we take care of the most vulnerable age groups that I ask from here, from the House of the country, not to leave their homes. The purchase of food and pharmaceuticals should be requested from family members or municipalities. It is not possible to emphasize the importance of washing hands enough and the need for people to keep a distance of at least one and a half meters between themselves. We need to subtract to minimize all contact and avoid encounters, and to leave the groups completely behind. Most can be done to prevent the spread of the epidemic by those who heed the advice of the authorities. Since many false news has also been published, it should be pointed out that authentic information can be read on the Koronavirus.gov.hu website. Dear House, Allow me to express my appreciation, for this difficult time has shown that we can be grateful to many. Many tens of thousands of residents of Northern Vas County have been thanked, who have shown a great deal of discipline these days. Special recognition is due to those who practice their profession against the virus. I thank all the workers in all the professional areas for their support in this challenging situation. In recent days, we have seen many fine examples of unselfish help. Whether it's a fundraiser, a donation, a volunteer job, a lot of Vas County people have shown each other that people can count on each other. Thank you for that. Collaboration will also be required in the following areas. I continue to call on everyone to help each other by putting aside political sympathy. From Kőszeg to Csepreg, Bün, Vépen, Répcelak, Sárvár to Celldömölk and in all villages from Kőszeghegyal to Kemenesal. [[18.20]] Don't forget: now all Hungarians are responsible for all Hungarians. Let's take care of each other. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-03-30-276	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session is expected to take place on 6 April 2020. Thank you for your work. The meeting's closed.
