u2020-05-04-0	[[Those in the room, with the exception of some opposition representatives, stand up and greet the electoral community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Ladies and gentlemen, The 19th day of the Spring Session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, Lajos Szűcs and Dezső Reliable notary will be of assistance to me. Welcome to everyone who's been monitoring our work. Dear Parliament, XLII 2015 on the status of professional law enforcement staff. Law 137. According to Article 4 of the Act, St. Florian's Day is the holiday of our firefighters and disaster response agencies. Dear House, Serving the interests of the community in a selfless, courageous and disciplined way is one of the noblest professions. This is especially true if the pursuit of this profession involves risking the individual's own life. In February 1870 Count Ödön Széchenyi, with his dedicated and effective cooperation, the first professional, centrally organized fire-fighting unit in Buda and Pest started its service in addition to the voluntary fire-fighting association, which was also established at that time. In addition, at the end of the year, in December 1870 the National Firefighter's Association was established. 150 years ago, therefore, the fire-fighting profession, the cooperation of the bodies and the development of fire-fighting services according to uniform principles took the form of a national organisation. Ladies and gentlemen, The fight against various disasters can only be truly effective at Community level. The professional Hungarian fire department has been in the past 150 years, but dealing with the current epidemic can also be evidence that the dangers can be overcome more effectively with sufficient cooperation, public and municipal involvement, and with the courageous and victim-minded members of our communities. In the current critical days, it is a relief for us that our voluntary and professional firefighters, technical ambulances and other disaster response bodies will continue to serve our safety with unbroken stability and vocation. For this reason, today the National Assembly of Hungary expresses its respect and thanks to all Hungarian firefighters, members of all domestic disaster management and rescue units. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government today, Mr Péter Szijjártó, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, has applied for a speech. I give you the floor.
u2020-05-04-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The pandemic continues to define political discourse and the pandemic also determines our daily lives. It is enough to think about the graduation exams that start today, but we can also see that the political, economic and health debate is taking place across Europe on possible relaxing measures, some of which have already been introduced, and there is an ongoing debate on the concerns that are based on these relaxing measures, but, above all, on their unforeseen consequences. Everyone strives to strike a balance between health protection and the re-launch of the economy. Obviously, health protection is the most important thing, but of course, in the context of the relaunching of the economy, everyone should know that a whole new type of global economic competition is being launched. From all aspects of the world economy, nothing will be the same after the pandemic. One thing you can see for sure is that relaxing measures lead to an increase in human contact, and an increase in human contact is forecasting an increase in future pressure on the health care system. That is why the restrictive measures imposed by the Government were important and that, while restrictive measures were in force, we were able to resolve the supply of health care systems by means of means, and that is what is going on in the process. I would like to inform you once again about this. Since my last briefing, in the last week we have transported 32 aircraft from China and 10 trucks from different airports in Europe to Hungary the necessary medical protection equipment. Over the past week, 17 million 516 thousand masks have arrived in Hungary, making it close to 100 million for masks imported since the outbreak of the pandemic, 99 million 624,000 are currently at present, and according to the contractual staff, 69 722 masks are expected to arrive. I respectfully inform you that 620 ventilators have arrived in the last week, and these machines are naturally operated by professionals after customs and quality control. I would also like to inform you that the arrival of other components, patient monitoring monitors, central monitors and other devices required to use the ventilator is also ongoing. I would like to inform you that there have been 525,000 virus tests in the last week, so that the total number of imported tests that have already arrived in Hungary is close to 2.5 million, and that our additional contractual stock relates to 1.2 million units. I would like to inform you that over the past one week, 16 million 140 thousand different protective clothing products, i.e. face protection, gloves or isolation robes, have been delivered, and the total number of these has already exceeded 56 million, we are expecting another 13 million, and the 850,000 medicines ordered for health protection have also arrived. Meanwhile, Budapest is a capital city and the VI. In total, more than 70,000 masks were donated from China to the district, which we delivered to Budapest, of course, and their distribution is still underway. In the last week, a number of news has been released that has led some to raise news about the quality of imported products from China that it would not comply with European standards. [[13.10]] That's not true. All products imported from China under contracts comply with European standards and comply with the rules applicable to them. They all have so-called CE ratings and are therefore free to use them in Europe in the fight against the virus, according to the Commission's decision. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, The deliveries will continue again this week, and next week I will ask you again to inform you of the performance of the week ahead. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-04-2	The groups have the opportunity to make a two-minute contribution. I'll give the floor to Gergely Harvesto first.
u2020-05-04-3	Dear House, Let me begin by saying that, in agreement with Minister for Foreign Affairs, we are obviously all rooting for graduates now and thanking teachers who, in such difficult circumstances, ensure graduation, even if we still consider it an unnecessary risk that graduation will take place during the intensive phase of the epidemic. A few weeks' delay would have increased security and not reduced the chances of a successful graduation. But I'm telling you, what we have to do right now is cheer and hope it doesn't do any harm to this unconsidered and violent move. The situation is similar with relaxation, honourable Members. Of course, we're happy to relax. The problem is, you haven't tested me in the last few weeks. Here in the House, they said there was no need for mass screening testing. Now they're gonna start testing, from now on, that's very good, very good, but the result will be later. However, I must also say that the legal implementation of this measure is lousy and stupid. Please tell one of our fellow government representatives what the logic is about maintaining restrictions in Pest County, while in counties where the situation is much more serious, such as Fejér County, it is not being maintained, of course, apart from Gyál, Dabas or Gödöllő being less nice to you than Felsút. Tell me how it is that the Pests cannot go to their gardens alone, but in the meantime the rurals can come to Budapest, where there is obviously a greater risk and I can continue. As far as the masks and tests are concerned, Minister, you are not having an argument with us, but with SOTE, which has examined, for example, the tests and found that they are not working. You have not yet answered the question of whether these are the tests that you have taken or not. I suggest that you inform me fairly, not boast about their economic successes that do not exist, but give me real, meaningful information. Thank you very much. [[Applause from DK's ranks.]]
u2020-05-04-4	It's time for Congressman László Keresztes. Here you go.
u2020-05-04-5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Minister, Thank you for your information. I would like to use these two minutes to ask some questions, but experience shows that you will try to find an opportunity, Minister, to answer the questions before the agenda. We also see these serious contradictions between government communication and measures. You posted this weekend that the government was prepared for a period of mass illness. Compared to this, they announced that the relaxation would take effect from today, and my fellow Member said that the graduation exams will take place today. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán also said earlier that by now, about this period, the epidemic is expected to culminate. We do not really understand this contradiction that these relaxations are about to begin, lifting the restrictions. I hope that today we will receive detailed and possibly data-based information on how this might happen or what the reason for the contradiction is. He talked about the economy. We also know that this economic crisis will be much deeper than what we thought, let's say, a few weeks ago. We see the decisions the government has made in the last few days. You announced that a $57 million agreement was concluded in Mongolia, i.e. HUF 18 billion, practically investing in Mongolia, creating jobs in Mongolia when thousands of people lose their jobs every day in Hungary today. We also see that now they want to hit not only local governments but also Hungarian universities with austerity measures, which will lead to a great deal of dismissal. I would also very much like you to explain, Minister, how this can happen, that you are investing in Mongolia and creating jobs there. I have one more question, Minister. Last week we heard a very shocking statement from the Romanian President Klaus Iohannis. We have responded to this, and many have responded from Hungarian politics, and not only from Hungarian politics. We've seen the government wait with this statement, waiting for the reaction. I would like to ask what diplomatic steps the government is taking or plans to take before 4 June so that we do not have to hear about anti-Hungarian outbursts on that day. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-6	László György Lukács is next.
u2020-05-04-7	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, Thank you very much for your information. As always, it is important to be the first to say that thank you very much for the work of those who contribute to the success of the defence, health workers, social workers and all other Hungarian citizens. What we can see is that you have taken it seriously that the epidemic will culminate on the 3rd of May, and you have taken it so seriously that the whole country will have been colonised the next day, obviously for the purpose of the disease control, even though it would have been responsible for the fact that the masks that you mentioned would have been sent to the settlements. The correct logical order would seem to me that it is not the posters to be sent to every city in which your results or your steps are explained, but the masks which, based on mandatory wear, must be worn by people in shops, on public transportation, or by graduates. But if we are talking about how much protection equipment has been brought into Hungary, it is also worth clarifying in the production report how many of these are not suitable for health use, as this was on the box that was not intended for health use. Then what is it? Minister, I want you to clarify what those tools were for. On the other hand, it would be good at the next government meeting, and I'm sorry that I can only advise you to turn to Miklós Kásler and ask him how he thought that, once he closed down hospitals and health care on the one hand, he would start these health care services three days in preparation, with virtually no place for people to go to test. Tell me where people should be tested, go to the dentist, or go to the clinic, because people are curious about that. If there's anything, you could put this on the posters. To give you one last suggestion in a positive direction, it would be worth rethinking the practical difficulties for the government as to what is going on with people who return to Hungary after working abroad or after other non-swinging jobs and are regularly obliged to have a 14-day quarantine. We believe that this rule should be considered very much, because it keeps these people away from their loved ones, keeps them away from Hungary, and this prevents them. We suggest that the government rethink that. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[13.20]]
u2020-05-04-8	It's time for Congresswoman Hajnalka Juhász.
u2020-05-04-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, On the one hand, I would like to thank the Minister for his constant information and continuous information. Two things clearly appear. One is that health protection equipment is constantly arriving in the country, masks, tests, and ventilators. And we also see that there is a balance in two things, on the one hand, in thinking ahead of the fight against the epidemic and in restarting the economy. Our goal is not to provide aid, but to create jobs. I would like to say that we are talking about Mongolia, but this will be clarified by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on a fixed aid loan scheme. Mongolia and Hungary celebrate their 70-year diplomatic relations, on the one hand, and on the other hand we can be proud of the fact that 200 Mongolian students are studying in Hungary, so investing in knowledge is also very important. I, too, would like to root for the graduates and thank you for the continuous information on the part of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-10	Now it's Szabó Timea's turn.
u2020-05-04-11	Ladies and gentlemen, It seems that it is still not important for Viktor Orbán to inform the people personally through the Parliament. Viktor Orbán has not shown up before the agenda in 42 days. [[There's a grumble in the pro-government ranks.]] Instead, he reads half-page texts on Facebook. This cowardice among European leaders is unprecedented! We are curious, among other things, why many high schools have written to graduate students today that they would rather bring in a sure mask, because KLIK will not be able to provide it everywhere. Not every student, teacher, caretaker in the hundred million masks, Minister? We would also like to know how a mask that is written in Chinese in Chinese is placed in health care facilities that is not for medical use. Why didn't you get a sterile mask out of the hundred million you keep mentioning? Then people wonder why the promised net grant of 330,000 forints to health workers has not arrived to this day. Didn't they have time to send that amount to those who fight for us on the front lines every day? Maybe, I don't know, it was more important for Lőrinc Mészáros to hand out tens of billions of HUF public procurement, and they didn't have time for health workers? According to one doctor's report, the salary in March was HUF 180,000 net. That's how much you appreciate the work of healthcare workers. Then people wonder why, while there are 300,000 unemployed in the country, they refuse to raise the lowest amount of unemployment benefits in Europe. Do you really think it's enough that for three months someone who doesn't work and needs to feed their child gets 80,000 forints a month? We will see in three months that Viktor Orbán's promise has been fulfilled and everyone's work will be done. In the meantime, these people could starve to death from 80,000 forints? We get a lot of letters in the middle of the snow that these people can't give their children dinner anymore. Think about these during the production report. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Well, that's it then. That's my question, Minister. [[Noise on the pro-government side.]] I think we've asked enough questions. Those are the answers we're waiting for. Thank you. [[It's a rare applause on the opposition side.]]
u2020-05-04-12	It's time for Congressman Bertalan Tóth.
u2020-05-04-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On St. Florian's day, we welcome and drive ahead of firefighters, workers in disaster management, but perhaps they would have preferred a raise and a return of their service pension. Dear Minister, You and your colleagues are doing your job, getting all the equipment they're moving into the warehouses, but we'd like to make an observation, even though you said there were fake news on the Internet. Several people have mentioned that certain boxes have been found to be non-sterile and that non-medical devices have been purchased. Or there have been reports that they've purchased large quantities of tests that don't filter out the virus. We're very confident that the respirators we've acquired are working properly. I see that scouts need to be more careful, whether they need an interpreter or a quality inspector. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that next week, please report that the hundreds of billions of forints spent on this project are made up of, specifically, how much they bought masks, ventilators, gloves, and the rest of them, because they are still using public money, but they are buying with taxpayers' money, and I am very confident that they are good products, but probably also taxpayers would like to know what they are going to do. And as I have said many times, there are these devices in the warehouses. I repeat once again: give every Hungarian citizen a mask; put together a protective package for every over 65 years of age with disinfectant, gloves and masks; and start mass testing, not only for the sake of testing, not only in order to reveal the infection or contamination of society, but also for those working in the front, in nursing homes, and to list the number of places where testing would be needed. Please do your job. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-14	Zsolt Németh is the last. Here you go.
u2020-05-04-15	Mr President, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, As my fellow Member, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, has already mentioned, last week we have been quite shaken by the anti-Hungarian outburst of Romanian President Klaus Iohannis. In this regard, Minister has shown himself several times during the week. I'd like to thank you for your strong tone. I think it is clear that we too must clearly, clearly say no to the xenophobia and the anti-Hungarian fear that the President of Romania is allowed to do. However, we have to say yes to what the President of Romania said no to, namely that until he is, there will be autonomy in Romania. Let us make it clear that while we are on the other hand, we clearly and firmly support the autonomy efforts of the Szeklers, the autonomy efforts of the Transylvanian Hungarians, and remind the Romanian President that he is Saxon-German, and that he would not exist if the Kingdom of Hungary had not given the Saxons autonomy at the time in the XIII. In the century. Let us also say a clear yes to Hungarian-Romanian cooperation, because it is very important not to let the Romanian President undermine the fruitful Hungarian-Romanian cooperation that we are now able to achieve in the field of the Crown Virus. This will be very necessary in the coming time. And plus one: say yes to irdala.hu, the Székely, the Székely National Council's signature collection operation. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-04-16	It is now time for the comments before the political agenda announced in advance by the political groups. First, I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Burány, on behalf of the Dialogue.
u2020-05-04-17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Every week, the number of job seekers increases. Surveys report quite brutal growth, the number of unemployed in Hungary is growing by tens of thousands every week. According to mid-April data, the number of job seekers is currently over 330,000. 330,000 people! And if we can believe the various news that this is growing by up to ten thousand per week, there can be up to 350 thousand unemployed in Hungary today. We would, of course, like to see it more clearly. But at a time when, according to news leaks from the labour centres, an unprecedented attack on jobseekers has started since the early 1990s, the agency's response is to eliminate the detailed statistics from which we could know exactly the territorial distributions, to know exactly how many months of this care is being provided, and to know exactly how much the average jobseeker's allowance is in Hungary today. But the government offices did exactly what they did in relation to poverty research: at a time when all sociological surveys showed that society is fatally beginning to split into rich and poor people in Hungary, KSH stopped measuring and providing data related to the minimum subsistence calculations. [[13.30]] We are now experiencing this at a very important, very difficult time in other areas: the employment office refuses to answer the question of the detailed distribution of these data. At the same time, we can be sure that the additional losses caused by the virus must be counted not only on the sick, but also on the more than 300,000 people who lost their jobs as a result of the epidemic. We will say it week after week in Parliament, and we will say it week after week in the future, if you do not change this attitude that the current regulation is insufficient to remedy the problem. There is a need for immediate action in two areas: one is to raise unemployment benefit, the other is to extend the period of entitlement to unemployment benefit to the level before your administration, from 3 to 9 months. This is absolutely necessary, more than 300,000 people need immediate help, not at some point in the distant future to restart the economy, but now they need immediate help. And they need immediate help from companies, including workers whose jobs are in danger, they are not yet unemployed, but they can become unemployed the day after tomorrow. These people's jobs must be protected, if necessary, by using budgetary resources. There is no evidence of this, to be more precise: the government wants to give these workers a minimum of assistance through companies in difficulty, which is a fraction of their actual income, rather than taking over European practice, the practice introduced by our neighbours, and could replace the budget by a very serious 80-90 percent, taking responsibility for paying the wages of workers who work in firms that are threatened by the epidemic and the crisis. We need immediate help, because most Hungarian families have a one-month or two-month reserve, no three-, four-, five- or six-month reserves, and the situation of these families will become hopeless in a few weeks if this immediate assistance is cancelled. Credits don't help these families, tax breaks don't help these families. The job-seeker's allowance, the extension of its duration and the protection of jobs, that's what would help them. While it is not a nice gesture that we will create as many jobs after the crisis as the crisis has ended, we need immediate help now in order to eliminate much fewer jobs and where these jobs have ceased and job seekers will receive them. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] support worthy of Europe. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-04-18	In response, the Secretary of State will report, as I see it. I give you the floor.
u2020-05-04-19	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Ladies and gentlemen, This is a long-standing debate between us, regardless of the period of crisis, we have been debating, government and opposition here in Parliament, whether people should be given aid or work, and here the front lines, honourable Member, have been stiffened, we can experience this from week to week. Regardless of the reality, regardless of the current situation, you want to continue to base the operation of the Hungarian economy on aid, instead of talking about people losing their jobs, you would demand that we create new jobs for them, and that if that were the case, we could have an exemplary cooperation, an exemplary consensus. We made it clear in 2010 that the Hungarian economy is based on work and the creation of jobs, because the economic policy dominated by aid has a clear outcome: the country's debt, and at the end of debt, people with bad intentions or, as they say, speculators are standing, and a country really must be unprotected. We do not ask for this, the Hungarian people do not ask for this, and they gave us the authority to implement a completely different type of economic policy. Honourable Congressman, I believe that the difficult situation that has arisen now justifies even more the strengthening of economic policy based on job creation. I respectfully inform you and my fellow Members that in the last two weeks, we have announced four new major investments in Hungary, which will create new jobs in the order of thousands. I would also like to inform you that we have opened up the possibility of submitting applications to companies that, in the current period, undertake to invest in jobs, to which the Hungarian State will give 50 percent of the invested money, and how correct it was, I would like to inform you that 151 companies have so far submitted their request, 151 companies will undertake to protect a total of HUF 32 064 jobs with an investment of HUF 75.3 billion, with a maximum grant of HUF 36.7 billion. I would also like to inform you that 124 of the 151 companies reporting this type of skills are Hungarian companies, so the cooperation with Hungarian companies does work to protect Hungarian jobs and create new jobs. I would also like to inform you that the European Commission is already in the process of notification, which will allow the payment of amounts of more than EUR 800 thousand for this type of EU study without a separate EU study. The launch date depends solely on the Commission's discretion and decision-making speed. I would also like to inform you that up to now 72 companies have submitted their claim for a credit facility with interest rates ranging between 0.1 and 2.3 per cent. For small and medium-sized enterprises, liquidity is now the main issue if they can keep their liquidity, at least have a better chance of keeping jobs. The liquidity loans within one year are granted at 0.1 per cent. I think that makes a lot more sense than giving aid. Businesses and companies should be helped to protect jobs and create new jobs. We will issue 450 billion forints of such preferential loans in the coming weeks and months 450 billion forints! , and we will also issue HUF 60 billion to companies and small businesses that have problems selling goods, if the payment deadline is longer, so that we can bridge it to us and provide HUF 50 billion to companies that finance their operations through bank loans, but the commercial banks tighten the conditions in the current situation; we will stand behind them and we will continue to guarantee that we will continue to help them. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] their operation. Honourable Congressman, We think it makes sense, not aid. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-20	It is now time for the group leader of the LMP, Mr Lóránt Keresztes. Here you go.
u2020-05-04-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I would also like to begin my speech before today's agenda by thanking everyone who is working in the first line to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people, and here I would like to highlight today, on the day of firefighters, this thanks to firefighters and to everyone who works in the field of disaster protection. In my comment before the agenda, I would basically like to talk about what is an evidence that, at the time of the epidemic, the proper flow of information and information can save lives, and at the same time the lack of it can limit the lack of protection at local level, which, in turn, could be a serious mistake and could cost people lives, and it is clear that there is no need for government propaganda but responsible and effective government information. The government's information on the epidemic situation must be severely criticised. Basic information and data do not get to the municipalities, sometimes we can be aware of very serious contradictions, and we can see that from week to week at press conferences it is common that non-governmental journalists do not get all their answers. And compared to that, we see that the government wants to launch some sort of propaganda campaign, so such a poster campaign, an information campaign, the details of which are not known here, I would like to ask you about. [[13.40]] A lot of contradictions could be presented from the past period, it is impossible to list them. I'll give you just one example: you can see a specific poster with a sign that says: "Don't wear a mask if you're not sick! This was published by the Ministry of Human Resources, and now they have made the right decision to make mask use mandatory in certain situations. Self reflection is very important, it is important to learn from previous mistakes. You don't have enough self-criticism, you have to learn from mistakes, and you have to integrate it into information. We see this lack for now, but extending the obligation to wear a mask is certainly an important measure. And the most important contradiction, to which I mentioned briefly, was that Viktor Orbán had already said that he was waiting for the peak of the epidemic several weeks ago, and Minister Szijjártó also said that we were prepared to prepare for the period during which the epidemic became a mass. Well, compared to that, we know that they're having a graduation exam today, and we know that the reopening process is underway. Strangely enough, the central region, the agglomeration, has been divided into two, but they are currently not giving the municipalities the opportunity to create further tightening, if appropriate, according to local characteristics. This is also a serious contradiction. However, it should also be said that health protection and control are the most important, but balance would also be very important for the economy, to see long-term planning and to provide adequate information about it. Therefore, we do not understand why they do not regularly provide accurate labour market data, how many people have lost their jobs and estimates of what specific, specific, serious problems these statistics may cover. We do not see that accurate information on the expected process of economic development in the short to medium term, or that at times, experts close to government acknowledge that your economic protection measures are insufficient. Neither is this information about how and in what form economic operators can expect, society can expect to re-evaluate these measures. Not to mention, even in concrete information, let us say that contradictions could be identified from both the operational tribe and the government spokesperson in relation to issues affecting the population. And what is a huge set of problems that affect local governments is the provision of information to the local government. It is clear that, in this situation, the municipalities are the number one bastions of defense and have received a great deal of additional tasks than usual. Compared to this, basic territorial data, despite the fact that several associations have already drawn attention to the importance of this, are still not available. There is no specific data from the health care system to the city leaders or mayors, and we can see that even the representatives of health institutions do not answer the question, and this is also referred to the operational tribe. It would be very important to know that if mass testing is started, whether the data of it will finally be given to the municipalities, because it would be extremely important for them to be able to organise their lives effectively. And then here's government propaganda. Well, you can see there's a new poster campaign, a new information campaign. Today, my fellow Member, Antal Csárdi, asks the Prime Minister's Cabinet Office a question about the amount of public money he intends to use for this propaganda and the volume of this information campaign. At the same time, we say that we do not need government propaganda, but that we need effective government measures to protect jobs more effectively, and, as my fellow Member rightly said, effective support for people and families who have already lost their jobs in a difficult situation. And allow me one more sentence, fellow Members, I would like to draw attention to a very important issue for many times: by 7 May everyone can support the European Citizens' Initiative to develop national regions. We have seen good news from the weekend, more than 200,000 signatures have come together; there is every chance that everyone will sign this initiative that they will have one million signatures by the deadline. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-22	Once again, I give the floor to Minister.
u2020-05-04-23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, First, let me say a few words about the statement made by the Romanian President last week. I would like to state that the Government of Hungary is interested in good Hungarian-Romanian relations, Romania is the fourth most important export market for Hungarian companies, and Hungarians in Transylvania and Székelyföld have the interest of having a good relationship between Hungary and Romania. And that such a good relationship would be feasible, for example, evidence of cooperation between Hungary and Serbia, which has never been as good before as it is now. But it's a two-way street. And unfortunately, the current political elite in Romania has done a great deal in recent weeks to ensure that Romania and Hungary do not have a good relationship, not a relationship based on mutual trust or respect and respect. We must say that it is not possible to speak to representatives of a nation over a thousand years old, a nation over a thousand years old, as the President of Romania has done in the last week. We understand the assessment of the Romanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, according to which it was expressed on a Romanian domestic policy issue. But how, for example, does the mention of the Hungarian Prime Minister get involved in a Romanian domestic political issue? Or on a matter that can be discussed at European level in a completely democratic debate, such as the issue of autonomy, how can it be brought up in such a hatesome way? Parliamentary elections are approaching in Romania, and unfortunately, with parliamentary elections approaching, certain representatives of the Romanian political elite often draw the Hungarian card. We have to refuse this. All hatred against the Hungarians must be rejected, and we must make it clear here in the Hungarian Parliament, hopefully this question enjoys consensus over the parties, that we Hungarians, Hungarians living in the mother country, us, the representatives of the Hungarian Parliament, us, the Hungarian government, people living in Transylvania and Szeklerland can always count on us in all circumstances. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] At the same time, we really owe respect and thanks to the two opposition parties, one of which is sitting in Parliament and the other one is not in Parliament, which has been expressed on this issue. [[Zoltán Balczó intervenes.]] I'll also inform you about... If the Jobbik did it, thank you. I would also like to inform you that, under the current circumstances, Hungary can have no other purpose in terms of economic policy than to remain the most attractive investment destination in Central Europe. I respectfully inform you that only in the last two weeks one of the largest Danish supermarket chains has decided to bring its regional logistics centre to Hungary. One of the largest American streaming companies entering the European market brought their European service centre to Budapest, one of the largest chemical companies in Europe brought the necessary investments to Hungary for Hungary's largest domestic and chemical plant, and today we signed the strategic cooperation agreement with Hungary's largest agency and agency. After all, one of the most important questions in the coming period will be how many investments we can bring to Hungary, how many new jobs we can create, and how many skilled workers will be available for them. Honourable Congressman, Dear Chief of Staff, I would also like to tell you that we will continue to maintain government information activities in the future. For example, without government information, Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises would not be aware of all the subsidies from credit products and budgets that we have created in order to protect the jobs at risk and create new ones instead of lost jobs. If we did not inform businesses, they would not know about the aid for investments, they would not know about the public wage subsidies available for short working hours, or they would not know about the low-interest loans which are intended to maintain the liquidity of Hungarian businesses. So there will still be government information, there are different forms of this. There are some that we practice in the open space, and some that we practice here in Parliament. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-04-24	It's Ferenc Gyurcsány's turn.
u2020-05-04-25	Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me to comment on a few comments made last week by one of the most influential political parties and public-law politicians in the governing party. According to this note, the Hungarian opposition, which disagrees with the ruling parties, is not part of the Hungarian nation. As far as I know, the nation is partly a constitutional category, and partly a cultural and historical category, and I don't know any definition of any of the library's literature. [[Dr. István Bajkai: You didn't read it.]] which would give a pro-government politician the opportunity to determine who is part of the Hungarian nation. [[13.50]] And in particular, man is embarrassed, because these same pro-government politicians are, by the way, constantly referring to the nation, holding themselves as a national government, apparently without exception, to the bosom of the Hungarian nation, who is Hungarian beyond the borders, regardless of the political opinion of those in question. So, how's that? So everyone who is out of the border is Hungarian, and everyone who agrees with the governing parties is Hungarian. But if that is the case, then you are not representing the Hungarian nation, you are operating with the Trianon National Council! This is possible, it must be made clear only then: a member of the nation who is directly personally injured either by the tragic Trianon decision or by its descendant, or who agrees with you, whose political self-defining and political involvement is the key issue. You can talk about the Trianon nation, the harm nation, but then do this. This means that the Hungarian nation is represented against you by the opposition. Secondly, I hear that the politician in question looks with pity at Members whose personal numbers begin with a 2. I understand you're talking about women. [[Interventions from the benches of the governing parties: That's not what he said! Don't lie to me. A voice from the benches of opposition parties: Yes!]] I think that the promotion of all kinds of male superiority, packed in any way, should be added, in these hours they intend to reject the ratification of the Lisbon Treaty by a resolution... [[Defiance and intervention from the benches of the governing parties, among others: Istanbul! Bravo!]] Yeah, the ratification of the Istanbul Treaty, I think it's suggesting something world-wide that's against everything we think it is. I could use harsh, harsh words, of course, but I'd rather say this: stand before your mother, your wife, your daughters, and tell them that you are inferior. Then, as they answer, I think it will be sufficiently credible. Thirdly, I hear that we, opposition representatives, including myself, are not serving our country, but agents of foreign powers. [[Noise and interruptions from the benches of the governing parties, among other things: That's right!]] There is no way I would like to say that those who think or say that would be Nazis, but I say firmly that this is a Nazi way of speaking and thinking. In fact, this, please, is a Stalinist way of talking and thinking. In the political opponent, foreign agents were searched for in Hungary in the 1950s. I don't understand why they're going back here. [[Interview from the benches of the governing parties: You are Komchi!]] And yes, when their opponents are desecrated in their humanity, it is Nazism itself when they are classified as animals. [[There are constant interruptions from the benches of the governing parties.]] We have habits here, how we speak in this Parliament, and what gestures we make. I think it's time to adapt our customs to reality. [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: Patriot!]] I would ask the opposition representatives to consider no more standing up as a token of their respect when the Speaker arrives in the House, because there is nothing to respect. [[Dr. Bence of Rétvári: You don't go in. That's why you can't...]] Secondly, I would like to suggest that in their comments, the President of Parliament should not, by any chance, be treated as the Speaker of Parliament, because there is no reason to respect him. Thirdly, since you are not kind Members, you should not be called. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Dear Members. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Tamás Mellar applauds. Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: Patriot! Dr. Bence Rétvári: You've never had a round of applause like this.]]
u2020-05-04-26	State Secretary Csaba Dömötör will answer. Here you go.
u2020-05-04-27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, I do not want to take a position on who is and who is not a part of the Hungarian nation, but I do want to say that there is a reason why the debate about your relationship with the national interest organisation is raised from time to time. And there's a history of that. Were we the ones who campaigned against the Hungarians on December 5, 2004? The ones with 23 million Romanians? And speaking of propaganda, Mr. LMP leader, we were not the ones who put leaflets in households about how much it would cost every Hungarian in the motherland to have a foreign citizenship. It was you, with government money, that's propaganda! [[Intervention from the benches of the governing parties: That's right!]] And by the way, you were the ones who were shooting at your people, using rubber bullets, cordoning around Parliament, and those days, those weeks, they told me all about what they really thought about democracy. And we did not use a sign that we love, which you mentioned in the autumn speech, which we would not take to our mouth here in this House, and indeed, not just in this House, but anywhere else, because we love this country. As regards the speaker's words, Mr Speaker, we do not need to interpret his words at all, but I would like to say that he did not talk about women in general, but about the behaviour that some Members are talking about. here in the House: yelling, whistles, loudspeaker, lies, such as the mortality data of the epidemic, the new attack of Hungarians across the border, constant provocations [[It's Bence of Turdai's intervention.]] That's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. And if I had to describe it with an adjective, I'd say it's unworthy. An unworthy man, an unworthy woman, and an unworthy man of any public service. And if you are so sensitive to style, let me ask you when you will apologize for ratting, honourable Member, and when, among other things, you will be apologizing for lamp ironing. From the last few days, I've been staring at him for the past few weeks. When will the apology arrive? [[Interview from the governing parties' benches: Yes!]] And there is one more thing I would like to say here, Your Honour, because it is important, because what you have just presented here is nothing more than an empty provocation, and we see that we do not know for what reason, but the opposition is putting its policy on provocation. But there are important issues, the epidemiological struggle, or, for example, how we can eliminate the harmful economic consequences of the epidemic. And I would definitely like to mention the issue of job creation here. A few days ago, if I recall correctly, in a video on May 1st, you spoke of referring to the workers and waving them in that they would be dismissed here in Hungary. At the time when I was listening to your words, it occurred to me what a fall-like false hypocrisy this is! And the reason I thought of this, and I'm bringing it up separately, is because in his own book, while now referring to the workers, he clearly described how he acted when he was in a position to make decisions. So now I'd like to quote your book. Beginning of the quote:.. You take a deep breath and say it's good, then let's do what needs to be done. And he's gonna call in one by one, and he's gonna settle with the unions, 'cause people are gonna have to be laid off, the company's assets are gonna have to be sold, and we're gonna have to save what we can save, save at least as much as we can get into the next business. So let's go to the next store! Mr. President. Dear Chief of Staff, These are clear words: you chose the business instead of the workers. He also did so as the head of a privatized company, and then later he did so to the head of government. Now you're referring to the workers again, and you've shed fake tears. Well, where was your emotional heart when you called them in one by one and dismissed them? Or when hundreds of thousands of people were dumped under his government? Wherever your heart was then, the current government is working to prevent such situations from occurring. This is also served by wage subsidies, tax reductions, targeted support programmes and, by the way, credit suspensions. The aim is to help all companies to keep their employees. And the only way we can serve this is by not allowing the left-wing austerity policy, which has already been proven in a negative way, because we know what it means: blood, sweat, skyrocketing unemployment, and for the country. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Indebtedness. Let's not try this again. Thank you for listening. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-04-28	Now it's time for the group leader of MSZP, Bertalan Tóth.
u2020-05-04-29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On the 55th day of the emergency, according to the Prime Minister, after the outbreak has peaked, it is worth taking stock and looking at what has happened in the interests of crisis management. The discipline and attention of people to each other are exemplary and, therefore, thanks to everyone, but the economic and social effects of this crisis will be brutal, and in this we see the situation quite differently than you do. You say, if there's work, there's everything; if there's no work, there's nothing. That's why they don't pay attention to people who lose their jobs. [[14.00]] We say that people need to be helped through a difficult time in order to support their families and to keep the economy alive by maintaining demand. You favour the multinationals and the Fidesz hinterland, we say that people, workers, domestic micro, small and medium-sized enterprises should be helped to survive. They've got a lot of protective equipment we hope all of them are of good quality, but while you think they belong in these warehouses, we say that these protective equipment should be in people, health institutions, workplaces and nursing homes. You hide important data of public interest that are important for the management of the epidemic and for the safety of people, we say that open, honest and accurate information is essential. You have now found money to promote propaganda on your billboards, but you will not give any more money to help families with no income to survive. You said that testing is not important in preventing the spread of the epidemic, we and the world outside of Fidesen have been saying from the beginning to test, test, test, test. Ladies and gentlemen, Let's talk straight. Orbán and its 133 brave men use the unlimited authority to strengthen their position, not to deal with the crisis, not to solve people's everyday problems, but to manage Fidesz's political interests. If not, you would not have said no to our proposals to protect people, but Fidesz said no to saving jobs, to save the existence of hundreds of thousands of Hungarian workers, able to work and willing to work. Fidesz said no to help Hungarian pensioners quickly and to ensure their livelihood. Fidesz said no to raising unemployment benefits to 9 months, saving Hungarian small and medium-sized enterprises. Fidesz said no to raising wages in the healthcare and social sectors. Fidesz said no to reducing household energy prices, despite the fact that oil prices have already fallen negative and gas prices have fallen back to a fraction. Fidesz said no to protecting people, but we say no to Fidesz and yes to protecting people. We ask anyone who wants to help our countrymen in distress, who want to get out of the crisis, to support our action to protect people, our petition, and support the demands of the MSZP. We demand immediate testing of the entire population from nursing homes to health care and jobs! We also demand that those working for us receive an immediate wage increase. We agree with the rate and schedule of wage increases proposed by the Hungarian Medical Chamber. We demand that our countrymen who have lost their jobs receive at least HUF 100,000 net for a period of at least 9 months. We demand that workers aged between 60 and 65 may retire with an age allowance. We demand that the family allowance be doubled immediately, which has not been raised for 10 years, the amount of children, children and maternity allowance. We demand that families do not pay household gas, electricity and district heating bills for 3 months, up to the average consumption, because a sustained and significant reduction in energy prices can allow this to be done. We demand that pensions be raised by at least 6.5 percent by January and that the pension supplement be paid now. Start catching up on benefits below HUF 100,000! Every pensioner who is under-average and who is retired should receive a one-off allowance of HUF 20,000 immediately! In order to protect micro and medium-sized enterprises, we demand that the budget take over 80% of wages and contributions instead of dismissal of employees. This is the minimum we can do to protect people, for our common future, for Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-30	Once again, Minister Szijjártó has the floor.
u2020-05-04-31	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Chief of Staff, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I would like to join Mr Group leader in thanking all the Hungarian people who have taken disciplinary note of the restrictive measures that have undoubtedly created a new, more difficult situation for everyone, in any event, and we thank everyone who has contributed to the preparation of the health care system for the fight against the pandemic, while respecting the restrictive measures. We also agree that after the pandemic, if at all that expression has a consensual content at any time, so that nothing will ever be the same after the pandemic. At the same time, honourable Member, I must also say that it is very strange to hear from the mouth of a socialist group leader about pensioners. We can remember when you took away the 13th month's pension, we now took the first step with the economic protection action plan to return the amount you had taken from the pensioners. We can remember how and in the midst of international and internal political battles we were able to reduce overhead costs. We can remember then who ran the emergency bell in Brussels, who demanded infringement procedures against our country and who supported them from home. And it is strange to hear from the socialists about the subsidies for families, while the Hungarian families have never received as much support from the government since 2010, they have never received as much support as we have provided to Hungarian families in the form of family tax incentives and in the framework of the family protection action plan. Honourable Member, I would also like to say to you that, when you are talking about Hungarian small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, we could, of course, even agree, but when you talk about the fact that these businesses have not received the support they deserve, I must say with due respect, contrary to Ferenc Gyurcsány's guidance, with due respect, that you are at war with facts and reality. Once again, I would like to say that the Hungarian Government has decided to set up a public wage support system for outdated wages. We have made it clear that up to EUR 800 000, half of all Hungarian businesses with which they are protecting jobs will be given in cash, and I would like to say once again that 151 companies have already signed up for this, and 124 of them are Hungarian companies, who have undertaken to protect 32 thousand jobs in total. This is the first step, but to have this taken away, and to say that this is not, we will not take into account, is, once again, a sign of confrontation with reality, as I would like to stress once again, never at such a discount, never so much and never so easily to maintain liquidity, to protect jobs and create new jobs, Hungarian companies have not yet been able to take credit as at present. This system, with a guarantee of HUF 500 billion, is also being created with the economic protection action plan. Mr President, once again, Mr President, I would like to tell you, once again, that the debate between us is going to last, that you always want to base your economic policy on aid, on job creation. In 2018, there was the last parliamentary election in Hungary, you offered an alternative, and we offered a vision, and the Hungarian citizens made a clear decision. We ask that this be respected, just as we respect this decision, and we will continue to govern it. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-32	I now give the floor to Peter James.
u2020-05-04-33	Thank you for the floor. First of all, dear graduates, we are with you, we are cheering for you, and we are pressing for you, because you are required to take an exam in such extraordinary circumstances that you may not have had, so respect for all the examiners and all the examiners. Dear fellow Members, Fidesz voters are disappointed. They are disappointed, because for years you have believed them that Lőrinc Mészáros, István Tiborcz and the others can accumulate enormous wealth to finally have a real national capital class in Hungary, to be Hungarian billionaires who can be expected in trouble, and these billionaires also ate the public money dirtyly. [[14.10]] Lőrinc Mészáros's assets increased from 7 billion to 407 billion in five years, László Szíj's from 20 to 200 billion, Garancsi's from 13 to 63 billion, but even Viktor Orbán's son-in-law, István Tiborcz, crawled up among the richest with his 35 billion dollars. So I understand they're supposed to be the ones to be expected to be in trouble? I'm only asking you this, fellow Members, because we have a problem. Tens of thousands of people have lost their jobs here, and hundreds of thousands more will. Somehow, this famous national capitalist class, Viktor Orbán's friends and family circle do not move, the wallets don't open, the safes don't open. When we, the good guys, open it up to give to the people, you protest. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Ask Soros!]] Colleagues, we have put the proposal on the table, meeting the legitimate expectations of Hungarian society and, by the way, of the Fidesz voters. We suggested we introduce a Ripper tax. We have suggested that now, in trouble, those who have been rich in government backwinds in recent years should come to the register for an extraordinary 30 percent special tax. What are you guys doing? At the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, it was even voted against to put on the agenda at all the taxing of the Butchers. You, fellow Members, have sided with the Fidesz billionaires against the Hungarian workers. You protected Orbán's billionaires and thus protected Orbán's billions when every single forint would be needed to protect Hungarian jobs. You know, the jobs from which you officially lost 56 grand in one month. And now they're comforting the troubled by saying, well, my friends, there's gonna be community service here for 50 grand, and you can join the army. Fellow Members, you have deceived the Hungarian people, but most of all you have deceived your own voters. You don't want to expect any public burdens from the Fidesz billionaires, just the people. Workers are expected to bear public burdens, workers who have paid taxes to the state register, and now, when they get into trouble, lose their jobs, they cannot expect any meaningful help from the state. They expect public burdens from small entrepreneurs, who have created value and jobs for years for this country, and now when they are forced to stop because of the crisis, they are told to take out loans, be indebted to if you want to preserve jobs. They expect public burdens from the municipalities, they have already taken away almost all the sources of income from our settlements, they are slowly unable to pay the wages. Colleagues, do you expect public burdens from everyone but Orbán's friends? During the emergency weeks, Mészáros and his circle pocketed public procurements worth HUF 100 billion. Do you know what that amount is? It's more than twice what the National Rescue Service is forced to manage all year round. Just to see what's really important to you. Colleagues, now the paramedics and nurses are being applauded at night, but soon the whistle will be on your side. 'Cause there's nothing more disgusting than being parasite in an emergency to the people. There's nothing more disgusting than when public money makes a billion dollars, and then when it comes to helping people in trouble, you fire them instead of helping them. Lőrinc Mészáros puts every second employee, 800 Hungarian employees, on the street only in order to renovate his hotels during an emergency, obviously with public money. Well, that's it, fellow Members, about how much you can count on your big national capital banks in trouble. Not at all! Colleagues, even at this point in time, it's your own wallet that's important, and most importantly, I'm sending it to those who vote for Fidesz on the grounds that, oh, at least they've made their way. Well, I have some bad news. Thieving politicians never say it's enough. The thief politician will finish the theft when the people say it's enough. And now he's gonna say it! He's gonna say it, 'cause trouble is really gonna tell us who he is. Not here, fellow Members, national capitalists. No! We're not dealing with the nation's capital class here, we're dealing with the nation's band of robbers, and that's exactly how we're going to deal with you, I guarantee you that. [[Intruders from the pro-government benches: "We're scared!" A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-05-04-34	Mr. Balázs Orbán has the floor.
u2020-05-04-35	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear Chief of Staff, The Better Voters Are Disappointed [[Intruder from Jobbik's benches:]] because there is a saying that when someone rises to speak, he has to consider one thing, that what he wants to say is more valuable than the silence he intends to break. [[Delight, applause from the benches of the governing parties. Noise. Intercoms from Jobbik's benches: Wow! Sit down.]] The thing is, you didn't manage to jump this bar at the moment. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Is this an impartial meeting?]] Because, as we have been talking about it in the Hungarian Parliament for weeks and even months, we really think that there is a very serious health and very serious economic crisis. In this economic crisis, and of course also in the fight against health impacts, it is not a political struggle, but a national effort and solidarity. [[Peter James: In this we await Butcher! In this union.]] common burden is also needed. That is why, when the economic and health effects of the epidemic have been mitigated, we have put together a package that accounts for 18-20 percent of GDP. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: It's not true! He's lying!]] This is about 9,000 billion, and we were also thinking of this common solidarity and shared burden. So the government has to take its share of the burden, take its share of the burden for the banks. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Oh, yeah!]] It is necessary to take part in the burden-sharing of politicians, to work in the Parliament or in the local governments, and to take part in the burden-sharing of multinational companies. We think that this is the right thing to do, and we think that the resources that will be released should be used to help those who really need it. Thus, those who take part in this package of government, families, pensioners, Hungarian businesses, employees and debtors, are the ones who are helped by all the programmes we have already talked about, and which we keep informing you about, week after week. There is no apparent conception of this information. I was thinking while I was listening to you, why that might be. Why is it that we are constantly bringing to you findings from epidemiological experts, statistics from economists, statements from foreign experts on the Hungarian epidemic management, and that these facts are clearly entirely unfolding about you? One of Orwell's stories came to my mind, which is about how the Communists were a strange animal species, because before they interned people, they told me that if someone tried to argue with them with facts, that comrade, you may be right factually, but politically wrong, factually correct, but politically incorrect is what you say. These were the Communists, and Orwell drew attention to this very well. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: The comrades are all sitting with you!]] When I have been listening to you for weeks, and I see that what colleagues are telling you as information is factually correct in all cases, because you cannot disprove them, and indeed we are experiencing the opposite, you are clearly, clearly, with easily disproved lies. So when we see every week that what the government is telling you is factually true, but you simply can't accept it, and on a political basis I don't know whether it's Bolshevik or Menshevik, history will decide that in your case, however, on a communist totalitarian basis, you are attacking it, attacking it on a political basis. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman: Tell me again.]] There's nothing to do with that. Because the fact is that, thank God, Hungary has handled health threats well by bringing together Hungarian people. That is factually true. You may not like it, but it's factually true. Hungary has dealt well with the economic impact of the crisis in a European comparison. That is factually true. You may not like it, but it's factually true. If you'll allow me, let me finally tell you one more fact. Ozden the better-looking mayor reduced the wage of preschool workers by 25 percent. [[Peter James: That's what I'm talking about, taking the money!]] You may not like this politically, but it's factually true. Shame and shame! I'd like to ask you, Mr. Director. [[Peter James: That's why I say that Lawrence give it back and don't fire 800 people.]] to think again that your speech is as valuable as the silence you intend to break. Thank you very much. [[A big round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Crikeys: That's right! That's right.]]
u2020-05-04-36	I now give the floor to KDNP's representative, István Simicskó. Here you go.
u2020-05-04-37	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It was an important and nice gesture that the Speaker thanked the firefighters and the disaster protectors for their sacrifices at the meeting today. Indeed, it is St. Florian's day, so it is appropriate to pay attention to them and to thank them here in Parliament. I myself began today with the New Buda firefighters, where I thanked them for their sacrifice. [[14.20]] Ladies and gentlemen, It is important that they speak in this House during the debate of the laws, there are various debates on legislative amendments, we take parliamentary decisions, there are also political debates in Parliament, in many cases personalities and yellings, but it is important that we are able to sound thanks and respect. That is what my agenda is about, because I would like to thank everyone who has been actively involved in the epidemic in recent months and weeks, and who has succeeded and helped people and citizens. Thanks to the people who serve our national community, they also do their job in a normal period of peace, so to speak, 24 hours a day: firemen, policemen, soldiers, doctors, nurses and many others, who can cope in this extraordinary situation. Ladies and gentlemen, The patron saint of firefighters in St. Florian, who is the role model of brave sacrifice, for he served as a captain in the Roman army, and then when Diocletian persecuted Christians, he himself stood up, confessed his faith, and became a martyr. It is important to respect nurses, healers, doctors, because they have the knowledge, the ability that if we get into trouble and get sick, or if our loved ones get sick, they can heal them. Hippocrates put it quite simply that knowledge of craftsmanship is not enough, many turn on the individuality of the doctor; only a good man can be a good doctor, said Hippocrates. Yes, my fellow Members, in distress, we are in danger of seeing who is what kind of person. This is especially true today. The year 2020 has brought an incredible crisis in Europe and the world, and we have seen an unprecedented pandemic for a hundred years, a trial period for all of us and for all of us, for all states, for citizens, for nations and for international organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, Kolping said that he asked God for one, to recognize the problems of his own age and to remedy them. The epidemic isn't over yet, but thanks to everyone who's been able to help. In the United States, it is said that an excellent, beautiful and beautiful statue was erected on the East Coast, this Statue of Liberty, which is now increasingly said to be good, and it would be time to erect a statue of at least this size on the West Coast, but it should no longer be called the Statue of Liberty, but the Statue of Responsibility. For we are indeed responsible, perhaps more than ever for the future of mankind, for the future of our nation; responsibility for each other. Thanks to volunteers, nurses, doctors, teachers, shopkeepers, shopkeepers, shopkeepers, public transport workers. Thanks to our fellow citizens, the people for their patience and for the government's regulatory and restrictive measures to be respected, they will also take this fight out of their own strength and around their own house. Allow me to thank the government for its work, its activities, as the government has been under constant crisis over the last ten years. We inherited an economic crisis, which started in 2010; the people were protected by the government and helped to protect the flood, helped in the red mud disaster, and now there is a pandemic in which we must stand again. Allow me to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs separately for, indeed, not only bringing home Hungarian citizens who have been trapped abroad in this pandemic during the global crisis, but also for ensuring that nearly 100 million protective masks and equipment are brought into the country, so that doctors, hospitals and many others need protection to be effective in the control of the epidemic. The apostle Paul says: Take care of yourselves, strengthen yourselves, and take care of the flock. Take care of all of us, every Hungarian person counts. It's obviously not over yet. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] The summary of experiences is important, and I hope that the summary of experiences and lessons will come to pass, and Hungary will be even stronger through this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-38	On behalf of the government, Minister Peter Szijjártó will react again. Here you go.
u2020-05-04-39	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, The pandemic has created a situation for everyone in which we have never been in before. You are right to do our job in the face of ongoing crises and challenges since 2010, but I may not exaggerate when I say that we may not have met with such a complex crisis, such complex challenges since the beginning of our governance. You are right that Hungary was in a deep economic crisis in 2010. We can remember that Hungary needed the IMF's ventilator before Greece did. We can remember that unemployment was above 12 percent, we can remember that the government debt was above 86 percent, with a budget deficit of around 7 percent at the moment. And we can also remember that very few of the so-called experts were those who, although they had great authority and had, would have given us a small chance, let alone to recover, but that after ten years, we can say that Hungary showed the fastest economic growth rate in the European Union at the end of last year. Of course, the same people who argued against our actions at the time, the same people who said that it wouldn't work, now give advice with the same self-confidence, give interviews, and appreciate the situation, and tell them that it won't work now. We hope that they will be right just as they were in 2010, when it came to the opposite of what the prestigious experts of economics said. Then the migration crisis came in 2015, when it became clear that we were facing a previously less experienced security and cultural risk and threat. We can still remember who they were who were against Hungary's success, and this is still true to this day. We can remember who criticized us as loudly as possible in Brussels and in the European public, and we can also remember who started the fire for this at home. And here we are now in 2020 when we are facing a complex economic, health and every other crisis with different impacts and challenges. We can also see that there are those who are interested in the success of Hungary and the Hungarian people, and there are also those who are against it. You have raised the question of Hungarians stranded abroad, honourable Member. Indeed, since the outbreak of the pandemic, we have brought home 9399 Hungarian citizens who, without their own fault, have been stranded abroad, who have not been able to come home because of the imposition of restrictive measures on civil aviation. And even now, honourable Member, despite the fact that we have already brought home 9399 Hungarian citizens, we are working on the return of another 740 Hungarians. I respectfully inform you that we will launch a special flight this week to return Hungarians stranded in the United States. This special plane will not only bring home Hungarians stranded in the United States and Canada, but we will also be involved in bringing home 15 Slovak and 4 Slovenian citizens, because this is when Central European cooperation is needed. I would also like to tell you, honourable Member, that everyone here in this House probably agreed with you when you said that we all owe our sincere gratitude to doctors, nurses, policemen, firefighters and soldiers who have made great sacrifices in order to protect Hungarian people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[14.30]]
u2020-05-04-40	I give the floor last to Szilárd Németh in the line of comments before the agenda. Here you go.
u2020-05-04-41	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Several thousands of people in Csepel have already protested the scandalous decision to open a homeless shelter in the middle of the largest housing site, because he believes that this is a key issue in terms of disease control in the capital city. Thus, the Christmases would deport hundreds of homeless people from downtown districts to Csepel by lying about fighting the Crown Virus. The mayor doesn't mind that in the immediate vicinity of his homeless shelter there are kindergartens, pediatrics and adult clinics, Jedlik High School, a vocational school, the market, a line of shops, a pedestrian street and two churches. In the election, Christmas did not promise this, but a liveable, clean and growing district. In this case, I wonder what Gergely Christmas meant by cleanliness, but it would also be difficult for her to talk about growth, since the news of the homeless shelter is probably already starting to fall in property prices in Csepel. Ladies and gentlemen, After the scandal broke out, Christmas began to explain embarrassingly cowardly, yet pompously, through her deputy. However, in addition to the usual liberal phrases, the superior lecture, i.e. the many lies in the letter, he was obliged to admit three things, all of which show that Gergely Christmas abuses her power, because she never engages in meaningful dialogue with the relevant capitalists, and even if she gets caught, she lies to their eyes. Gergely Christmas is not in the interests of the Budapest people, because she does not keep her promises to them, or even makes counterproductive, irresponsible and dangerous decisions. The people make their views of such a man quite clear. Gergely Christmas drinks wine and preaches water, lies like a river, and picks nettles with other hands. Fortunately, however, a liar is easier to catch than a lame dog. In the case of the homeless shelter in Csepel, the decision was made secretly above the head of the Csepel people, not even involving the mayor of the district. This is no new thing, since his predecessor and great role model, Gábor Demszky, during the same time, with secret contracts, under the cover of the night, mass Gypsy families were deployed during the IXth century. from district to Csepel. Despite the pressure on the homeless shelter's case, we have not lost a single countryman in Csepel in the winter due to the use of homeless shelters and warmers, lack of space or lack of public care. There is only one explanation for this: the homeless shelter in Csepel is connected to György Soros. [[Expansion, interruptions, applause in opposition benches.]] Christmas admits that the members of the foundation funded by the speculator behind the philanthropic mask have worked out the plans, and that the operation of the homeless shelter would also be played out by one of Soros' organizations. We can say that the homeless shelter in Csepel and the hundreds of homeless are part of the Soros-Christmas plan. [[Delight and applause in the opposition benches.]] And finally, they confirm that Csepelen would actually create a pandemic center for the homeless. They've been changing the technology around the clock at the school they've been shut down. Christmas Gergely and the CDC crisis management? People can ask the question. How does the mayor feel about all this after what happened at the retirement home on Pesti Road? Is Pesti Road the model, the example to follow? Isn't there a day where the authorities don't show a great deal of irregularities and misdemeanours? The one where he wasn't a doctor for weeks? Where 322 people were infected and 38 victims of the murderous disease? Which, by the way, is more than half of our fellow countrymen who died in the nursing home. This is still the only mass infection point in the country, where instead of Christmas, the Hungarian Army had to perform disinfection. Christmas hasn't set foot in the institution yet, and the residents and what happened there probably don't care a bit. There is therefore reason to assume that this would not be any different anywhere else. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, but we don't want any of your plans with George Soros. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-04-42	I now give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[Crying out loud, noise, coming out of Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-05-04-43	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, The Member also missed, among other things, that before his decision, Gergely Christmas did not engage in dialogue, especially with those whose decisions would most apply. Who else would not engage in dialogue than the co-chair of the Party for Dialogue? He who has already told his party his main goal is to have dialogue, and when he comes to power, he will not speak to anyone involved for a second. This is the most perfect continuation of the tradition of János Kóka, I think. Gergely Christmas also continues the Balliberal tradition of somehow trying to capitalize on political capital even in the home of the elderly on the road to Pest, that it is inactive, that it is weak, that it is helpless, that it does not take action to pass on responsibility, that it wants to move forward as a politician. I was particularly shocked that my right-wing fellow Members laughed when Mr Szilárd Németh mentioned György Soros, because if you look at where the sharpest opposition parties on the left have been, to whom you have been attacking, you can find the various Soros organisations exactly everywhere. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's benches.]] If we look at the debate on the National Basics Plan, the National Basics Plan, which was created by an organization funded by György Soros, was considered to be good and what was created by Hungarian teachers with the help of a state educational institution. Homelessness would also be adjusted on the basis of the advice of these organisations, but they would also rely on them on migration, or we can now see how many European leaders from Brussels to Madrid to Rome immediately welcome the economic programmes with the various economic and eternal interest payments that George Soros has developed. You are laughing at these speeches here in Parliament, even though you could see the danger in this, honourable Member. Gergely Christmas, when he was campaigning, announced a stadium stop, but then he announced a park-building stop, a hospital-building stop, a bridge-building stop, and a museum-building stop. But it was also not the reality that the Committee on Welfare said at last week's marathon-long meeting, when it said that medical care was ongoing in the nursing home on Pest Road, because it was revealed from the studies that there were ten days in April when there were no doctors in the nursing home on Pest Road, and since mid-March there had been a shortage of health care. One of the consequences of this could have been that the epidemic could spread within the walls of the nursing home, there was no doctor who controlled patients with various diseases there, and he could not stop the spread of the disease when he saw that one or another patient had the symptoms of the coronal virus. As a result, 74 percent of elderly caregivers who died from a corona virus epidemic have unfortunately died in the home of the elderly on Pesti Roads, which is operated by the Mayor of Budapest. The number of dead has risen to 38, and so it can be said that three of the elderly people who died in the four elderly homes died in this home. This shows what irresponsible measures, non-compliance with different instructions, have resulted in. A million forints were fined the home of the elderly on Pesti Road for the deficiencies, as it was found that the treatment of multiple-use medical devices was not regular; the period of use of the medicinal products was not adequately checked; several expired medicinal products and expired medicinal products were found; the laundry collection room was inconvenient and out of order. Although there was a hand wash, the faucet and its surroundings were not available; the cleaning equipment could not be identified, the process of surface disinfection and cleaning could not be traced in the facility, and clean and contaminated areas were mixed on the work surfaces. [[14.40]] Thus, neither was it true for the deputy Christmas to claim that there was no hygiene problem in the institution. All of this was done by supporting the provision of six billion forints in the elderly homes in the capital, and the only thing that left Gergely Christmas to be able to do was to fly letters of counterfeit content by Zoltán Gál to the public. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-44	Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to ask Mr Dezső Liberty to present the speakers who are not on the agenda.
u2020-05-04-45	Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, MSZP; Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Péter Ungár, LMP; László Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; László Hajdu, DK; Zoltán Varga, DK; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Gergely Farkas, Jobbik. Speaking before the agenda tomorrow, representatives from Kocsis-Cake Olivio, Dialogue; Erzsébet Schmuck, LMP; Ágnes Vadai, DK; Lajos Korózs, MSZP; Brenner Koloman, Jobbik; András Aradszki, KDNP; János Halász, Fidesz. Péter Ungár, LMP; László Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Dániel Z. Karpát, Jobbik; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik; Zoltán Magyar, Jobbik; Bence Tordai, Dialogue. Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Zsolt Nyitrai, Fidesz; János Pócs, Fidesz; Erik Fülöp, independent; Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik. On Thursday, Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Balázs Ander, Jobbik; Lóránt Keresztes, LMP; Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik.
u2020-05-04-46	Dear House, President János Áder sent the Parliament transcripts on the termination of the office of State Secretary and the appointment of new State Secretarys. I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present these.
u2020-05-04-47	Mr László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 202. § 2 and Article 205 On the proposal of the Prime Minister, Dr. Mariann Vízkeleti, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Justice, was relieved of this mandate with effect from 30 April 2020, and Dr. Barnabas Hajas was appointed State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice with effect from 1 May 2020. Budapest, 23 April 2020 Sincerely: Mr János Áder, Mr.László Kövér, President of the Parliament. Mr President, I inform the National Assembly that Article 9 (paragraph 4) (j) of the Fundamental Law and the 2018 CXXV on Government Administration. Law 202. On the proposal of the Prime Minister, I appointed Dr. Roland Juhász as State Secretary of the Prime Minister's Government Office with effect from 1 May 2020. Budapest, 23 April 2020 Sincerely: János Áder
u2020-05-04-48	Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliament and myself, to congratulate Mr Barnabas Hajas and Roland Juhász on their appointment and wish you good health and good luck in your work. Now we're going to decide on house rules. But first, we'll do a presence check. Please press any button on your voting machine. If you feel your machine is not working, please signal. [[Interventions from opposition benches, including: It does not work! Me neither! Gergely Harvesto: Oh, dear!]] Now, please press your button. [[Vote. Result appearing on the board: 133 yes, 26 no, 11 stays.]] Thank you. May I have your attention, please? And I'd like some patience, please. [[For signal:]] [[For signal:]] So L. Simon László, Bence Rétvári, Gergely Gulyás, András Tállai and Mónika Dunai are not working at the moment. If there's anything you can do to help, I'd like the technical staff to give us a signal. (To be indicated:) Then I'd like another try. Please, let's try the vote again. [[Vote. Result appearing on the board: 128 yes, 27 no, 15 stays.]] Thank you. [[For signal:]] Congressman Bence Rétvári's voting machine still doesn't work. Neither is Gulyás Gergely. Their two votes, if necessary, I'll add to the votes. So we're going to decide on house rules. The proposal submitted by the President shall initiate a derogation from the rules of the House in relation to the opposition before the ministerial agenda. This is H/10344. You can get to know him on the website. At the same time, I would like to ask Mr Lajos Szűcs to present the text of this.
u2020-05-04-49	During the emergency announced on 11 March 2020 in order to prevent or eliminate the consequences of the human epidemic which threatens the safety of life and property and to protect the health and life of Hungarian citizens, Parliament shall depart from the rules of the decree so that the minister can speak outside the agenda in 10 minutes; the group leader or the group member may comment on this speech in 5 minutes; and the Minister shall be subject to a 5-minute rejoinder.
u2020-05-04-50	Dear Parliament, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in order to derogate from the house rules, four-fifths of the Members present need a vote in favour. 16988 I ask the Honourable Parliament to contribute to the departure from the house rules of H/10344. On the basis of a number of recommendations. I want those of you who don't have a machine, signal by raising your hands, and the rest of you press the button. [[Vote. Result appearing on the table: 152 yes, 22 no, 0 stay.]] I'm telling you that Gulyás Gergely's plane didn't work, he voted yes. On the other hand, Secretary Retvári's machine is already operational. However, with 152 votes in favour, 22 against and no abstentions, the House accepted the derogation from the house rules. Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. The agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time shall be decided on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. The Fidesz Group has proposed that our agenda be added to the proposal for a political declaration on the importance of protecting children and women and refusing to accede to the Istanbul Convention, as a last item on the agenda for today's sitting, a decision on the summary amendment proposal and a final vote on tomorrow's meeting. Anyone who agrees with that, please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I find that the visible majority of this House has accepted the proposal. We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda with the previous amendment. Please indicate by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] I note that the visible majority of this House has adopted the agenda. I would like to inform you that, as we have just decided, P/10393. It may submit an amendment to the political statement no later than three hours after the adoption of the agenda. That's 17 hours and 50 minutes. [[14.50]] Now, at 2:50 p.m., we move on to the immediate questioning. I would ask our fellow Members to leave the Chamber quietly, but quickly, if they do not wish to attend. [[It's a short break. Several Members leave the room, more people talk standing up.]] I would ask the fellow Members not to consult each other in here. If you want to stay here, sit down and listen to the speaker, if not, and leave the court quickly. [[It's a short break. Several congressmen are leaving the room.]] [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2020-05-04-51	Dear Parliament, I salute my fellow Members. Péter Jakab, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think about this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Due to the absence of the Prime Minister, Mr.Péter Szijjártó granted the right to reply to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding, or whether he will ask the Prime Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-05-04-52	I'll wait for Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-53	He'll wait. Prime Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, MEPs Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. This is the solution? It's an address. Which one of you is gonna call first? [[On the sign of Dr. László György Lukács:]] Yeah, there he is. I give the floor to Congressman László György Lukács.
u2020-05-04-54	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Minister, I'm really honored that when I call you, you come in. May God keep his good habit, but he should come more often. Let's start with a simple question that I think can be answered quite easily: is the epidemic peaking, or are we on the platform or not? I'm waiting for a simple answer. The other one's a little more complicated. In the last three days, you have attempted to reopen health care, you know, hospitals or institutions that had been systematically shut down or removed from health care. In this connection, I would like to ask you, Minister, that you do not consider this to be too fast, that you consider the three days you have to prepare for it to be enough. And what would you suggest to patients who, according to your new protocol, now need to be tested to get into the medical facility? Where do you want them tested? How do you pay this 25-30 thousand forints? Can you guarantee that social security contributions will be deducted later? 'Cause right now, it looks like they're gonna have to get tested somehow to go to a hospital, go to a specialist or go to a dentist. No one knows where, how, and at what amount, but it's the only way they can get into the care. On the other hand, you certainly know the data most about health, and I would therefore like to ask you, in a thorough knowledge of the data, why the re-opening of health is justified. Is it the fact that the rate of reproduction in this country looks good on you? So what is the rate of the virus now? Answer this to see where Hungary stands in international comparison at the moment! But you also have the most credible information about the infection of health workers. You mentioned two cases on the morning show, but I'm sure there are some people who have been infected. Tell me exactly how many health workers there are today who are infected and who are currently being treated in health care in such a way that we can cure them so that they can participate in the care later. We want them to feel better from here, too. So we're waiting for a pinpoint answer, Minister: how many people are infected who are medical workers? And let me ask you one more bonus question, will you reopen the schools? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-04-55	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Miklós Kásler.
u2020-05-04-56	Thank you very much, Congressman, for your question. Your Honour, Mr. President. Dear House, Thank you, Mr President, for ignoring personalities and asking questions of a truly professional nature, to which a professional response can be given. His first question was whether the infection was on the truck. Anyway, I can tell you it's near the truck. The next question is, what about the reopening? The re-opening will take place in four steps from 4 May, the first stage of which began on 4 May. It covers basic care, outpatient clinics, dental clinics, nurses and day-to-day benefits. We have described very strictly what hygiene rules apply, and these must be observed. On the subject of testing, Congressman, you asked who would provide the test. Well, among the hygiene rules, it is clearly stated that in any case a test should be carried out if there is a suspicion of infection. At the moment, the search for contact is still on the agenda, and we will also do so. In public care, the insurance company pays for the test, in private care, either the private supplier or the private patient. Re-opening is justified by the fact that the government's actions have led to a limited and positive outbreak in Europe. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-57	Thank you very much, Minister. You have the chance to rejoin the congressman.
u2020-05-04-58	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary. By the way, don't take what I said to you personally, or I told you that we'd rather see someone else in that ministerial seat. It's actually a matter of fact, so it's not personal. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Friendly!]] Forgive me if you've previously taken this as your own. But he still hasn't answered what the reproductive rate is now. It is important to know this because it is on this basis that we can decide whether the relaxations that the government has planned or are safe are really safe, what you have planned in relation to health. By the way, your comment here just confirmed that three days were not enough to prepare both the caregivers and the patients. The other thing I'd like to ask you to say is, how are the patients you've dropped out of hospitals now? Can these patients come back? How can these patients return? And here's another issue, since we were on the way to graduation: don't forget to answer when the schools will be reopened. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-04-59	Thank you very much, Congressman. The rejoinder also deserves Minister Kasler.
u2020-05-04-60	Thank you very much. The infection of health workers is 13.5 percent. That means about 370 people were infected, 39 were treated in the hospital, 78 of them were cured, one of our employees was lost. It is not three days: it starts on 4 May, so it can be prepared between the given parameters. [[There's a grumble in opposition lines. (Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: It's May 4th!]] We didn't put any patients out, 58 percent of the beds were empty at the moment of the ministerial decree. With regard to graduation, I would like to say that today has begun, completely undisturbed. Of the 86,000 students, 80 didn't show up. One movement was János Arany. As to your comment, I would like to say that you are studying John Arany's Epilogue. Thank you very much. [[Interjection from the ranks of Fidesz: That's right! Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.00]]
u2020-05-04-61	Thank you very much, Minister Kasler. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Lajos Korózs, representatives of the MSZP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. When will you submit your resignation? It's an address. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: Number two...!]]
u2020-05-04-62	Mr. Secretary. The first medical worker in the plague was killed by a 41-year-old father. You've given this country the most: your life. He left behind a child and a loving wife. He was 41 years old. You lied to me about his death. When are you apologizing? Will they take care of the widow and the orphaned child? Do you have the banner of mourning on medical institutions? During the last few months, we have been able to prepare our health care system for a period of mass sickness every day. But how much are we paying for this? I'd like to tell you a story from the countless that the electorate will come looking for you. My 32-year-old sister-in-law started having an eyeache and a headache a week ago. His symptoms are getting worse. He also had a fever, and his home doctor was informed, who started calling people who needed to be in that situation. They sent the ambulance and took him to the hospital in Tatabánya. They tested Covidra there, and they didn't measure a blood pressure, but they put him in the waiting room for hours to get him home. He was in a lot of pain at the time. His test results came back negative, so the GP went out to see him because he didn't have the strength to go to the bathroom. The GP called several hospitals, but they refused to take him here and there, for that reason, because he didn't have his second test results. How was I supposed to do that when they didn't make it? At first, he was suspected of a coronal virus, but he was released. On the other hand, the GP had a hard time taking care of the hospital in Balassagyarmat. He's already been brought in with a suspected meningitis. That's what the paramedics who arrived suspected, unfortunately, which is confirmed. He's got meningitis and an inflammation of the brain on an anesthetic machine because he was in so much pain. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Unfortunately, Reni is no longer with us. A seven - year - old child and a five - month - old child mourn her father. Because you've completely stopped basic care and health care on the grounds of the virus. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's not true!]] How many more people have to die, Minister? And who will be responsible for this mother's death? I need your answer.
u2020-05-04-63	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Miklós Kásler.
u2020-05-04-64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Congresswoman is certainly consistent. The two-monthly repeater is to resign! You have entertained Parliament with true stories [[An uproar in the ranks of opposition parties. Bangóné Borbély Ildikó: Is this entertainment? This isn't fun, Minister. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's amazing!]] Although the story is much, much more... Don't yell. I listened to you with great patience. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: But we have no patience! Interview from Fidesz: Get out!]] The 41-year-old medical worker was considered our own dead. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: So what?]] if there has been a mistake, it is the responsibility of the supplying institution and the supplying doctor. Neither the family nor you have made an announcement on this. These adjectives, that they're vile, they've lied, and I consider them to be part of your literary work. We know that it has been deepened in Hungarian literature and Hungarian grammar and in Hungarian spelling. [[Defiance in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: This is where you should stop.]] Thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-65	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm giving the congresswoman a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-05-04-66	Mr. Secretary. Regina was 32. She has a five-month-old daughter and a seven-year-old daughter. You know, Minister, I'm not messing with this. Maybe you do. I don't see 133 brave people here, I see 133 mean people who can do this. [[An uproar in the ranks of the ruling parties. Interviews from Fidesz: Watch out! Shame on you.]] And you know, Minister, when I hear it from everywhere and from doctors, [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] You know, Minister, you're a doctor, and you should know that if we don't do these things, they cause very serious problems. Your anticoagulation test, do you know what the consequences are? These patients could bleed to death. [[Laszlo Szászfalvi: You should know!]] The mothers weren't examined for six weeks, Minister? What is the consequence of this? And how many people in Hungary will die from not having access to basic health care? Now Kaban's a man died because he wasn't operated on with heart disease. My neighbor almost died of appendicitis because he wasn't taken to the hospital on time. How many more cases, Minister? [[A statement from the Fidesz: Just the truth! Spell it! Dr. Gyula Budai intervenes.]]
u2020-05-04-67	Thank you very much. I'll give you a one-minute rejoinder. You have the floor, Minister.
u2020-05-04-68	I mourn the death of all Hungarian patients at the age of 70. I've done everything in my life, and I've done it now, so that my countrymen can live to the potential limit of human life. I don't really know what to say to your comments, because it doesn't have any content. And I'm not gonna take over that style, not even so they don't confuse me with you. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Miklós Kásler is leaving the room.]]
u2020-05-04-69	Thank you, Minister Kasler. Dear Parliament, Lajos Oláh, a representative of DK, wishes to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Because of his absence, Minister Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask Congressman Oláh whether he will accept the person of the response or ask the Minister for his answer personally.
u2020-05-04-70	Thank you very much, I accept.
u2020-05-04-71	You have the floor, Congressman Olah.
u2020-05-04-72	Thank you very much, Mr President, I accept, all the more so, because I would rather ask the Secretary of State this question than a minister who called a question about the death of a 32-year-old man amusing. [[István Szilárd Németh: That's not what he said, don't lie!]] I think you have no choice but to go into Viktor Orbán's room. I repeat, here, in front of us three minutes ago, you said you were entertained by this thing. [[It's constant noise. The president's ringing the bell. Dr. Gyula Budai: That's not what he said, Louis, don't lie.]] Dear Secretary of State, You've managed to set a sad record, with 91 400 students applying to higher education since 2001, 20,000 less than last year. Since 2011, there has been a trending decline in the number of applicants, the number of admissions and the number of students. The number of students in daytime training has increased every year since the change of regime to your 2010 government, but since then it has become lower every year. Since 2014, the proportion of graduates has also decreased. In the European Union, this ratio is increasing almost everywhere but us, and in most of our regional competitors, this growth is well above the EU average. This is closely linked to the Prime Minister's view of a work-based society, which is about Hungary becoming the home of assembly plants and trained workers. Therefore, you prefer to spend on anything more than on higher education. Under the pretext of protecting yourself against the economic effects of the epidemic, you have, as one of your first actions, replaced your share of visual sports from the Tao. Meanwhile, in universities, restrictions were launched. I repeat 3.5 billion from the University of Pécs: three-and-a-half billion have been taken away from the fact that defence also requires budgetary bodies to participate in the common burden. On ELTE, 860 million of which were the victims of austerity, a staff stop had to be put in place and fixed-term contracts could be extended by up to two months. It is no wonder that students choose an increasing number of foreign universities and graduate PhD students leave the country. Thank you.
u2020-05-04-73	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-05-04-74	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, Speaking of who appreciates higher education workers and students who apply for higher education, let's look at the fact that on 15 December 2008, when the Parliament decided here to reduce the salary of civil servants working in higher education by a month, who voted how. Congressman Olah was here? He was here! Did you vote in favour of reducing salaries for higher education teachers and workers? He voted for it. [[15.10]] But he was not alone in this, with you Gergely Arató, Ferenc Gyurcsány and Ágnes Vadai from his current faction, who also voted for him, but István Hiller, Lajos Korózs, Attila Mesterházy, Gyula Molnár, Zsolt Molnár, who voted in favour of him, and who had just rented Sándor Burány out of the Dialogue Group. You all voted in favour of taking a month's wages from higher education workers. This government increased the wages of higher education workers by 27 percent. What you reduced by one month's wages, we raised by 27 percent. After all, your concern, honourable Member, is here in the walls of Parliament, I think, to say the least, uncredited. What have you left behind in higher education institutions? $36 billion worth of PPP debt! And who paid for most of it? It's government. We have helped universities and colleges to replace their budgets from month to month, each year strangled by continuous PPP repayments that you have sewed on universities. With dual education, 26 higher education institutions have already made use of it in order to obtain the most usable qualifications on the market, but we have also made student loans available for higher education free of interest. However, I ask you, Congressman, to begin your speech with an untruth that Minister Kásler has given him not to make false news, to try not to provoke people with untruths and annoy them. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-75	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The congressman has a rejoinder.
u2020-05-04-76	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We weren't surprised, he didn't answer the question at all: why is visual sports, football more important to you than the university, why is it that football receives money from the epidemic tax collected from banks and is taken away from universities? Secretary of State, please respond to this. That's all I'm asking, because there's no way you're gonna answer the question. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-77	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder also deserves the Secretary of State.
u2020-05-04-78	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, I do not know what kind of reduction you are talking about when the number of student normatives has increased by 40 percent, honourable Member, and the norm of doctoral students has also increased. Therefore, higher education is much better suited now, after the 40 percent increase, not small, 1-2 percent, but 40 percent normative increase, so that higher education is also a perspective for those who might come from more difficult financial circumstances to higher education, but we also try to give even more support to those who are talented, who stand out from among their peers, as we are spending HUF 25 billion on excellence support, honourable Member. You have introduced tuition fees, you would have kept students away from higher education with tuition fees, we have made student loans for training free, we have increased the norm by 40 percent, which has increased university social support, and we are spending even more on excellence programmes than any of us, honourable Member. This could be the key to a successful higher education, not the austerity that you have been carrying on. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-79	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ms. Erzsébet Schmuck, Member of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Due to the absence of the Prime Minister, Mr.Péter Szijjártó granted the right to reply to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister for the answer in person.
u2020-05-04-80	Thank you very much, I'll wait for the Prime Minister.
u2020-05-04-81	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Erzsébet Schmuck, representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. What is the government's plan? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Sándor Farkas granted the right to reply. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for the answer in person. [[Erzsébet Schmuck: Yes, I accept.]] You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-05-04-82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Over the past few years, I have criticized Prime Minister Viktor Orbán very often because in 2010 he terminated the independent Ministry of Environment and Nature Protection, and basically threw this task at another wallet, fully exposed and subordinate to it. You represent the interests of agriculture in the government, and environmental protection and nature protection are very often still a category of runners. I can give you a lot of examples of how much they could not enforce the interests of this whole social issue. The environmental and nature protection civil society organisations are important actors. Over the past 30 years, a great deal of public tasks have been taken over, on the one hand, in the area of environmental education, environmental education or the solution to local environmental and nature conservation problems, but you have now failed these NGOs. I am convinced that a responsible Minister for the Environment will not allow what has just happened to civil society organisations. This year, in the budget of the agricultural portfolio, HUF 70 million was earmarked to enable civil society organisations to apply for projects, and this fund was issued for a tender, but last week civil society organisations received a letter from you that this HUF 70 million was transferred to the budget. Billions of dollars are being spent by the government on various luxury investments, unnecessary investments and much more; I do not understand that this is exactly the 70 million coins that were needed. I would like to ask why the Ministry did not stand up to the work of civil society organisations. Thank you.
u2020-05-04-83	Thank you, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2020-05-04-84	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, it is the duty of the State Secretary today, the environmental secretary of state, to serve the environmental issue within the Agricultural Ministry. With personal experience, I would like to confirm you that the work of this Secretary of State is extremely organic and closely linked to other State Secretariats of the Agricultural Ministry, and therefore the issues of environmental protection and nature protection are of the same importance and same importance as the many other areas of the agricultural sector. From this point of view, I can tell you with a calm conscience that there is no disadvantage in the environment itself, or in nature protection. However, the question you raised regarding the support of civil society organisations is indeed and I will not deny it, in the last week or the week before, has been suspended, so to speak, in the framework of government measures, gently and mildly. However, I would like to reassure you now from the point of view that, just today, the Ministry's management has discussed this source with the provision of an additional source that these organisations are expected to receive the funding for the tender awarded in accordance with the original calls for proposals. For this reason, I would like to confirm once again that these applicants are expected to receive this roughly HUF 70 million grant according to the call for proposals. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-85	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2020-05-04-86	Thank you. So be it, Mr. Secretary of State, as you say, that you will be given these opportunities, but you also need to know that this HUF 70 million is very little. It's very little because they're doing a lot more work than you can do otherwise. This HUF 70 million should obviously be raised several times, because we have not yet talked about the fact that civil society organisations are taking on tasks there as well as the employment of people. If civil society organisations cannot do this work, they will also send people away, and then the Prime Minister will have a much greater headache about how much jobs will need to be created. I ask you to consider staying at 70 million forints, but consider raising this amount. [[A rare applause in the ranks of the opposition.]]
u2020-05-04-87	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. Secretary Farkas is also entitled to a rejoinder.
u2020-05-04-88	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Indeed, we can also agree that in earlier periods a greater amount was included in the provisions of the green resource, because that is what we are talking about, the green resource tenders. In today's budget plan and what will be done by 2021, a similar amount was added, although in a different structure, to be raised. [[15.20]] The structure of the budget will be different, the main rates will be different, but apart from this sector, we will not forget this important role. I would like to assure you that these resources are available in the 2021 budget, and even if the economic performance is restored to its original level, I hope that this will increase. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-04-89	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. What's going on? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai granted the right to reply. I ask Mr Tordai, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister for his answer in person.
u2020-05-04-90	I don't accept the assigned responder. Thank you.
u2020-05-04-91	Thank you very much. The Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Tamás Mellár, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has given the Secretary of State the right to reply. I ask Congressman Mellar to accept the person who is responding.
u2020-05-04-92	I'll take it.
u2020-05-04-93	Thank you very much. You have the floor, Congressman Mellar.
u2020-05-04-94	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, From the government side in the last few weeks, but we have heard many times today that the Fidesz government is treating the crisis quite differently than the former socialist governments, which have applied restrictions, but the Fidesz government does not apply such restrictions. The other day, I had the letter from the Ministry of Innovation and Technology sent to our university, which reports that they will reduce the cost of real estate by 10 percent and the cost of accumulation by 15 percent. This leads to a HUF 3.6 billion reduction in the budget of the University of Pécs. In addition, the number of Hungarian students will be 10 percent lower and the number of foreign students will decrease by 25-30 percent. I ask the Secretary of State whether this is a austerity or not. But let's be fair. Obviously, when there is a crisis, it is necessary to reduce budget expenditure. I would also be inclined to understand, but I had some of the most recent issues of the Hungarian Gazette after 30 March, and I read in them that the government is spending 9.3 billion on sport, 3.5 billion on counter-terrorism, 8.6 billion on protection against immigration, and so on and so on. I added this to 63.8 billion forints, which the government has distributed to these purposes in recent weeks; and at that time I did not mention that there was an investment of 18 billion for Mongolia to create jobs, and 5 billion for tourism advice. From this series of figures, I think it can be seen that the government has a strong list of priorities, and this is the next, that there is money for sport investments and support for non-existent migrants, while at the same time there is no money for university education and scientific research. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-95	Thank you very much, Congressman Mellar. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda.
u2020-05-04-96	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would ask the fairness you have mentioned, if I didn't know you were one of those economists who, whatever the government is doing, can only criticize it. Our only good fortune is that these criticisms will never, ever be justified by life. Honourable Congressman, Let's be honest and reasonable. The plague forced our country to reorganize our lives. The primary task is the protection of human life and health, and then the protection of the work of the Hungarian people and the protection of jobs. From the outset, the government has been monitoring international developments with regard to the coronal virus and has been among the first to act in the interests of prevention and treatment. We have organised a collective defence, from which only the opposition would like to stay out of Hungary. The epidemiological fund established by the Government has been established and made available to the defence as an open appropriations from above. Honourable Congressman, Our goal, and this has been mentioned here in Parliament many times, is that as many jobs as the virus destroys, we need to create so many jobs. To this end, we have also launched an economic protection action plan, which has a record size of around 20% of GDP. That's what's going on in the case you're objecting to. There is a need for common responsibility for a successful defence. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-04-97	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Mellar.
u2020-05-04-98	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, Believe me, I myself and the opposition are interested in the Government's successful crisis management, because this is the most important goal for Hungary, and we are trying to advise it and we are trying to warn the government if it does not take good action. If 10 and 15 percent of universities are hijacked, that means jobs will be lost there. They will disappear in places where it would be very important for the future to create jobs, because the society of the future must be a knowledge-based society. Now, the crisis should be used for you to create a very powerful change of structure, which, on the other hand, would strongly require that you do not withdraw money in these areas, and even redirect money here, so that we can really successfully get through this crisis. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-99	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder also applies to the Secretary of State.
u2020-05-04-100	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Few things frighten us more than the advice of left-wing economists. When you, the left, managed to deal with the crisis, and we can expect such advice, as I see from you recently, you have abolished your 13th month pension, reduced the duration of your child's pension, raised the key to VAT, included the family allowance, raised the retirement age, reduced the pension, took a month's wages, introduced a property tax, and took a huge loan from the IMF. Well, advice like that and suggestions like that, thank you very much, we don't ask. The fact is, honourable Member, that the resources needed for effective defence have been provided by the government, started the composition of the necessary resources on its own, and we have also asked other actors to participate in defence, political parties, trade chains, banks and municipalities, to be included in the defence. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-04-101	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr.Barna Pál Szigmond, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question:. What can a head of state afford? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman Sigmond Barna Pál. [[15.30]]
u2020-05-04-102	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Dear House, The flood of hatred that Klaus Iohannis, President of Romania, in his speech last Wednesday brought to Hungarians was amazing. As is known, the House of Commons of the Romanian Parliament ran out of legal deadline and subsequently adopted the proposal for autonomy submitted by József Kulcsár-Terza and Zsolt Biró representatives in Szeklerland. Since then, the Upper House of Parliament has rejected the draft on the basis of the support of the RMDSZ and the opposition of the Romanian parties. President Iohannis stood up to the emergency caused by the virus and urged against autonomy and the Hungarians. He said that while he and other authorities are fighting for the lives of Romanians against the virus, in the House of Representatives PSD, the Social Democratic Party, is fighting to give Transylvania to the Hungarians. Iohannis' attempt is particularly unscrupulous because the whole performance was created because he wanted to make an internal political profit. However, it is also well known that unfortunately all Romanian parties, including PSD, reject autonomy. This proves that the President's entire outburst is just acting. With this nationalist outburst, he would like to increase the popularity of his party, the Liberal Party, which has been significantly trashed by the treatment of the coronal virus epidemic that many people criticized. The President of Romania received the Kalegi Prize two months ago, which in principle appreciates the activity for a united and peaceful Europe. In Donald Tusk's laudation, he praised Iohannis so much that he was honest with people, not trying to manipulate them. Depending on what has happened, such appreciation is very offensive to a Hungarian ear. The Government of Hungary seeks good neighbourly and strategic cooperation with Romania. That is what Fidesz, the Minister and the Prime Minister have been talking about these days. In the current situation, we are particularly dependent on each other. We ask President Iohannis to apologise to the Hungarians to withdraw his irresponsible statement. Dear Minister, What does the Hungarian Government do, what can the Hungarian Government do to make President Iohannis apologize to the Hungarians? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-103	Thank you very much, Congressman Zsigmond Barna Pál. I give the floor to Minister Péter Szijjártó.
u2020-05-04-104	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, Hungary is interested in maintaining good relations with Romania. This is the case for all neighbouring countries, but given the large number of Hungarian national communities in Transylvania and Szeklerland, this is particularly true for Romania. Unfortunately, I must tell this House that a number of members of the Romanian political elite have made statements in recent weeks that have rightly violated the honour of Hungarians living in and beyond all mother countries. This statement by President Klaus Iohannis is obviously completely unacceptable and must be rejected as strongly as possible. All the characterisations, all the points that Klaus Iohannis said are deeply offensive to the Hungarian people. Klaus Iohannis must show more respect for Hungary and the Hungarian people, all the members of the Hungarian nation. Not to mention that a large part of Transylvanian and Szeklerland Hungarians supported him in the last presidential election. That is why you should turn respectfully towards the Hungarians of Transylvania and Székelyföld. I respectfully inform you that we have made clear the untenable nature of this declaration on diplomatic channels and communication channels. We demand that Klaus Iohannis give the Hungarian people more respect. We represent a thousand - year - old nation, and no one can talk to a thousand - year - old nation like that. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-105	Thank you, Minister. A one-minute rejoinder is due to the congressman.
u2020-05-04-106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. Indeed, both you and the Ministry stood firmly for the protection of Hungarian interests when Klaus Iohannis apparently wanted to cause a feud between Romania and Hungary and stabbed the Hungarians in the back as Saxons, the Hungarians of Transylvania, who had turned to him and voted for him on several occasions. We often hear in international forums that Romania is a model state for minority rights. This case also proves that unfortunately it is not the case, there is much more to be done, because not only symbols and Hungarian are banned, but the Hungarian card can be pulled out in crisis situations, and Romanian political parties sometimes want to use the nationalist card to capitalize on political capital. It can be a worthy answer to this Iohannis statement if we all sign the initiative of the Szekler National Council on irdala.hu, sending a message to President Iohannis that Szeklerland does exist, and we do stand for the autonomy of Szeklerland. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-107	Thank you, Congressman. The rejoinder is also due to the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
u2020-05-04-108	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I agree with you that, if ever, there is a great need to improve bilateral relations in the context of this pandemic. In recent times, the Romanian party has made several requests to us, following the consequences of the pandemic, and we have all implemented them one by one. Romanian citizens were asked to return from Western Europe in the form of a transit agreement, and we helped them to do so. Now requests are being made to look at movement in the opposite direction, and of course we will also help you with that. We have been able to agree on the possibility of using certain border crossing points for commuters of Hungarian and Romanian nationality, so we have been able to agree on virtually all practical issues. I would just add that on the day the Romanian Foreign Minister called to allow Romanian citizens to return from Western Europe, the Hungarian mayors of Transylvania were punished on the day the Hungarian and Székely flag was posted on 15 March. I find it shameful that they were punished for this. At the same time, their requests were made, and no apology has been made since this moment. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-109	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Andrea Varga-Damm and Anita Kotocsáné Kőrösi, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. What does Madam Minister think begins with two? It's an address. Due to the absence of Minister, Mr Pál Völner has given the right to reply. [[Defiance.]] I ask the Members to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for the answer in person.
u2020-05-04-110	We'll wait for the secretary. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-111	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Gergely Kálló, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. Why should the two-hand workers be left unsure? It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has given the right to reply. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding or to ask the Minister for his answer in person.
u2020-05-04-112	I accept, thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-113	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-04-114	Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, In the beginning, allow me a thought about what was said during the speeches before the agenda. We must not only think about how to create jobs after the crisis, but also how to preserve them during the crisis. This is an important thought, and it will relate to my speech. The Danube Vasmű gives work to over 6,000 people in Fejér County. If we consider other services, this number goes above 8,000. The disease caused by the corona virus has caused and caused huge problems not only for small companies, but also for large companies such as Dunaferr, and it has also brought workers into health and financial uncertainty. Unfortunately, uncertainty is further increased by the government, so I have to tell you honestly, but we have proof of that. I hold the letter from the CEO of the Dunai Vasmű, which he sent to the employees of Dunaferr on 28 April. I would like to highlight two things from this letter. One is that he has already prognosticated and predicted to the workers that they will only be able to pay their April wages by 15 May. The other important thing is that, and I would now quote literally that the management has applied for government assistance weeks ago, for example, to facilitate borrowing, to secure orders and deliveries in connection with public investments for our company, but unfortunately we have not received any concrete answers to our request so far. The thing is, this is a very impertinent response to an employer this size. I therefore ask Mr Secretary of State how it is possible that the largest employer in Fejér County has not been answered to this day, thus pushing the workers into uncertainty. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-04-115	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda. [[15.40]]
u2020-05-04-116	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We are in constant consultation with various professional organisations, representatives of businesses and companies, and with them we have developed the economic protection action plan as the largest economic protection measure in Hungary's history. One of the most important elements of this is the protection of jobs, and one of the most important tools is wage support, as wage support is used to protect the workplace of Hungarian people. Because we do not want to deal with the difficult situation with aid, but with job creation and wage support, because many, many companies, many companies, are in a difficult situation, they are serious and real help to them. These options are also available to the company you mentioned. We also want to deal with this situation in this way because, unlike your allies, [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] We do not want to help companies, but we want to help them to keep jobs. We can see that this is the right way. Therefore, in this difficult situation, the government does not restrict the lives of employers, companies, but provides them with extra support and additional opportunities. Honourable Congressman, Allow me also to point out that you have just said why we are not directing a public order to the company; because, for example, it is possible to win such contracts in public procurement, and we, unlike you, are paying attention to winning state works in fair competition. [[Defiance and interruptions in Jobbik's ranks.]] We would like to ask you not to ask us to do the opposite here, behind the walls of Parliament. [[The president's ringing the bell. Interventions and publicity in the opposition.]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-117	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The congressman has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-05-04-118	Unfortunately, I only have a minute to answer that question. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] Mr. Secretary. I've been a congressman since 2020, so talking about my ancestors is very difficult, but let's not be hairy with you, really, I wish I was very nice to be with you. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition. Nacsa Lőrinc: I can't!]] I know you're doing everything you can to create jobs, I know you're doing everything you can to create as many jobs as possible in Mongolia for 18 billion forints. [[Demercation and intervention in opposition ranks.]] You got the wrong town, you got the wrong county, you got the wrong country, you got the wrong continent. Please do not try to create jobs and jobs in Mongolia in times of crisis. In one word, you didn't say anything about ironworks, you didn't mention ironworks, and in one word you didn't appreciate why you didn't answer the question of ironworks management. Are you saying I'm accusing you of corruption? The question was not why they were not given extra public work, but why they did not answer their questions. I'll remain a servant of my district. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-119	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-05-04-120	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, The fact is that the system of wage support is available to all Hungarian businesses and there are many other options within the framework of the economic protection action plan: preferential credit facilities, tax and contribution reductions, and there is a long list of measures and subsidies available, and you know it. You also know that this economic protection action plan is the largest economic protection plan in Hungarian economic history, the biggest programme that you are attacking because it does not meet your social policy visions, because you want to give aid to people over and over again instead of giving support and instead of helping to protect their jobs. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-121	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask the congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2020-05-04-122	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2020-05-04-123	He'll take it. Congressman Simicskó has the floor.
u2020-05-04-124	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Written exams started at 9:00 this morning. We are in a particular situation, since the usual life-style of people has changed due to the coronal virus epidemic, many restrictive measures and protective measures have come to light. Today is graduation day. We all know that, in the face of such an emergency, not only do students take exams, but also our education system, the teachers also take exams, because in a new situation, we have to take the usual graduations and go through them, and we hope that as many as possible will graduate successfully. I would ask the honourable Secretary of State that, although we know that since 1918, since the Spanish flu, there has not been an epidemic caused by a similar global disease for more than a hundred years, and indeed, this situation is extraordinary in many respects, yet I see the Hungarian Government's efforts to get everything back to normal as quickly as possible in terms of the way of life. I am very grateful for the fact that I also spoke before the agenda that the Hungarian people also comply with the protection measures and the restrictive measures. The 84 284 students who started the graduation exam this morning, what could they expect, what could they expect in the future and in the next few days and weeks, what additional measures are expected, how different will this exam be, this graduation than in the last few days? Thank you in advance for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-125	Thank you, Congressman Simicskó. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-05-04-126	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We hope that today's writing has succeeded as many as they would have liked, and that in the next few days they will succeed, we will all cheer for them. We remember how excited we were before graduation, so we're confident that they're doing well in this series of trials, and then they can go to a field of life that they're planning for themselves. We wish them good luck. With regard to the date of graduation, students were given a greater freedom due to the coronal virus epidemic and security measures than before, as anyone who wanted could have more easily transferred to the next examination period, we said that we would publish more of the cross-annual trainings, precisely so that those who believe that, in addition to the security measures adopted by the government and the educational task force, would choose the next date, but would also be able to do so with much less inconvenience. At the same time, we can see that there were only a few thousand students, about 3 percent who decided to do so, and the majority chose that these safety measures were reassuring for them, and they just passed the graduation exam, because we provided masks for all students, when they went in, went out, or could wear them even during the exams; we also provided masks and gloves for teachers; we provided disinfectants in the rooms; we solved and entered the school so that students could get out and in as many gates as possible so that they would not have to meet each other; the exams started at 9:00, not 8:00, so that they could avoid peak traffic in urban public transport and meet as few students as possible; the papers that the students had just given will rest for one day, precisely so that if they were infected with a virus, they would be destroyed in one day, and they would not contaminate the repairers, although, as I said, the teachers would be given rubber gloves. So we tried to do everything we could, the press officer from two weeks ago. [[The president's ringing the bell.]] At a video conference, experts also said that there is no significant risk, and there is almost no risk, in addition to such security measures, of holding graduation. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-127	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Simicskó.
u2020-05-04-128	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Thank you very much for your reply, Mr Secretary of State. Indeed, for everyone, especially for young people who graduate, this is a huge test, a lot of people have prepared for this. I am pleased to see that the protective measures that the government has taken in time will certainly be useful, the 422,000 masks that are available to students, and the 147 thousand masks and the same amount of gloves all help teachers to put down their graduation safely. Indeed, as you said, Secretary of State, I myself, if I think back on my youth, graduated from Csepel in 1980 at Jedlik Ányos High, so forty years ago, and indeed, it is a great challenge in itself, and I hope that the preparation for what has happened in young people over the past period is the preparation for very, very many young people, I hope for everyone who graduate today, will be successful and successful, and our education system will also be successfully tested. Thank you very much for your reply. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[15.50]]
u2020-05-04-129	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-05-04-130	Thank you very much. In order to ensure that graduation is as secure as possible, we discussed the issue with the Faculty of Pedagogism, several representatives, the Education Office, the Klebelsberg Centre and even the Student Council, and 17 of the 19 participants voted in favour of holding their graduation. In Italy, Italy, Austria, Germany, Croatia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Denmark and Ireland, as well as in several countries they have decided to restart education: Switzerland, Romania, France, Denmark, Norway, Germany. So in France, the fourth most infected country in the world, the date of full education in schools is soon to be set, and also in Germany, although it is obviously partly a provincial competence, it is planned to re-launch schools where the number of infected people is over a thousand people a day and the number of dead people a day is around one hundred. Thus, similar solutions have been found in many other countries, and we also hope that despite the extraordinary situation, as many as possible will have the results that they wanted to achieve at graduation. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-04-131	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and Members of the MSZP, Mr Lajos Korózs, wish to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I would like to ask Congresswoman, Mr President, to accept the person who is responding. [[Lajos Korózs: We wait for the minister.]] They'll wait for the Minister. Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Also, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély and MEP Lajos Korózs, representatives of the MSZP, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: "Everyone is lying, are you not? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I would like to ask Congresswoman, Mr President, whether you will accept the person who is responding, or whether the Minister will be personally asked for an answer. [[Lajos Korózs: We want an answer from Minister.]] Thank you very much. They'll get it. [[Defiance.]] The Minister must reply at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Ms Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, Member of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's called the 2nd. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask the Member to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Minister for the answer in person.
u2020-05-04-132	I wouldn't miss a personal meeting with Minister. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-133	You won't miss it, thank you, because the Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Sándor Szabó, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. Why municipalities and universities? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has given the Secretary of State the right to reply. I ask the Member whether he will accept the person who is responding or ask the Minister for his answer in person. [[Sándor Szabó's signal:]] He'll take it. Then you have the floor, Congressman Szabó.
u2020-05-04-134	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr State Secretary, it has been said here on several occasions from the benches of the MSZP and the opposition that, if they cannot help you, they should not harm you, and we must also say that they certainly have a special ability to put sectors or sectors in a difficult situation even more difficult. We saw that this happened in health care, public education, and then continued in the case of municipalities, and now we have higher education institutions, universities, which we know were sentenced to withdrawal because your minister wrote a letter to the University of Pécs last week, among other things, from which they want to take HUF 3.6 billion; I am aware that from the University of Szeged HUF 500 million was cut off overnight, without the institution being informed about it; and so is the ELTE, which will take HUF 860 million from it. We have said on several occasions that, whether in the case of municipalities or universities, we know that these sectors were in a difficult situation even before the epidemiological situation, and we are not sure that they should be affected by further financial withdrawals. They have a significant loss of revenue, now they have an extra task, and they even want to take funds from them now. I thank the Secretary of State, if he spares me the answer that we need to bear a common burden, because if that were the case, I would not have had to spend more than 10 billion forints on sports investments since the outbreak of the epidemic, but I think it is a different priority, or I should not have given two billion to István Tiborcz to a yacht port, or other state subsidies to the Mészáros empire. So I respectfully ask you why local governments and universities are constantly being deprived of resources. Exactly how much money do they take from universities? I'd like you to go to the University of Szeged separately. And what do you intend to spend these resources on? I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-05-04-135	Thank you, Congressman Szabo. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda.
u2020-05-04-136	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, It is always striking and strange when the MSZP raises its voice in the interests of municipalities and higher education institutions, the party that systematically and systematically destroyed these two areas during its governance. I would like to remind you that in 2010 the municipalities were left behind with a debt of HUF 1300 billion, which the Fidesz-KDNP government took over from them. Honourable Congressman, Allow me also to inform you that, contrary to what you have said, the government is also cooperating with the municipal authorities in the event of an emergency, which is why you have given the mayors a special license to create and introduce special stricter regulations for their own settlement. This is real and good cooperation. Honourable Congressman, The preservation of human lives and the protection of jobs require cooperation and extraordinary, immediate measures, which is why the government has decided to redeploy the budget and transform it, and the Fund for the Protection of the Disease and the Protection of the Economy has been established. In order to ensure the necessary resources, and it is not worth laughing at, we really have to bear the burden together, which is why the state started saving itself and asks others to do so: political parties, multinational trade chains, banks and municipalities. And allow me to finally inform you that higher education institutions will, of course, continue to receive the funds necessary for their operation. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-04-137	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman Szabó.
u2020-05-04-138	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Of course, as usual, the Secretary of State did not give any answers. Not only did he not give any answers, he avoided answering directly. You called for a common burden, so I am calling for a common burden: please tell me why you do not like to tax those companies, those economic operators who have received billions from the state in recent years, have often won billions in non-competitive public procurements! Why can't you just do that? Why is it that the Ripper Empire takes advantage of anyone else everywhere? Answer that question, Mr. Secretary. [[16.00]] Moreover, I would just like to say about the municipalities that you have been able to divert significantly more resources than you have taken on, so you should keep that in mind. Thank you.
u2020-05-04-139	Thank you, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-05-04-140	Thank you very much. It is apparent, honourable Member, that you have not changed, that you have recreated the prescription of Gyurcsány: new taxes and additional burdens for businesses and people. We have seen this from you, as you have just said in your speech. They have taken away the 13th month pension; they have reduced the duration of the child; they have increased the VAT; they have taxed the family allowance; they have reduced the sickness allowance; they have taken a month's wages from those working in the public sector, and they can still be classified for a long time, honourable Member. These are your crisis management exercises. They want to raise taxes and impose more burdens on Hungarian businesses, Hungarian people and Hungarian families. The Hungarian people do not ask for this, which is why we created the economic protection action plan that does not follow this policy. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-04-141	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: å How does the government take care of the worst social groups in the shadow of the virus? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding.
u2020-05-04-142	I'll take it.
u2020-05-04-143	It says yes. Mr László Sebian-Petrovski has the floor.
u2020-05-04-144	Thank you. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. There is an epidemic, and I will not say anything new, nor is it a surprise that the government has so far barely provided any support or assistance to a number of social groups who have been disadvantaged or even more disadvantaged by the epidemic. The Prime Minister, the ministers of trade, announce a few exact mini packages every few days, which, instead of helping hundreds of thousands of people in distress, actually provide support to few privileged people. I read in the weekend press that, for example, through the Hungarian Tourism Agency, the government plans to provide HUF 5 billion net to the winners of the public procurement procedure entitled "Consultation of damage caused by the Crown Virus." For example, among the bidders there are players such as the Hungarian Fashion&Design Agency led by Orbán Rachel's girlfriend. This is happening, so putting individuals in an exceptional position when the epidemic can put people who do not get sick in a more difficult situation, but who may be in a crisis every day. There are many such groups, let me mention two. One of these unworthy social groups is the circle of home careers. I ask Mr. Secretary of State, he gets them and their caretakers get masks. Why don't you at least organize a request for information about what you need in this situation? Do you have any financial support for the work that they are now providing? In addition, their number has increased due to the special situation in which sick elderly relatives who have just been kicked out of hospitals after their decision on your hospital bed number have been cared for at home. The other group is women and children at risk of increasing domestic violence. Compliance with the epidemiological rules means that many have to go back to their abusive families. Are you ready for these 911 calls? Did the government give them any extra money? Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of DK, LMP and Dialogue.]]
u2020-05-04-145	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-05-04-146	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We have therefore learned that DK would not consider it important to support tourism in the context of crisis management measures. [[Intervention from the benches of opposition parties: Not so...]] You were talking about home care, honourable Member. You know, when you steered, we spent 15 billion forints on home care. 15 billion! Now do you know how much we're spending? 55 billion, Your Honour. So that's the difference between your performance and our performance, which we can translate to people who are really at home, who can't work, and they have to care for one of their family members. For you, this area was 15 billion forints, and for us it was multiples, 55 billion forints. When it came to pensioners, what did you do in the crisis? They took a month's pension from them. What do we do during the crisis? We'll rebuild your 13th month's pension. When it came to educators, what did you do? They fired mass educators, 15 grand, and next to him, who was still there, they took a month's wages. What do we do in the year of crisis? This year we will raise the wages of teachers by 10 percent from the second semester. When you were on the government, what did you do with the nurses' wages? They've reduced the wages of nurses, doctors, nurses out of hospitals, 6,000 in total. What do we do with the wages of nurses? In this cycle, we increase by 72 percent. This year we raised it by 14 percent on 1st January, in the second half of the year, by another 20 percent from November. We didn't reduce it like you. We're increasing wages. You have also covered the social field. What have you done with the wages of social workers? They also reduced it by 8 percent. What have we done with the wages of social workers this year of the crisis? We've raised it by 14 percent, Your Honour. That's the difference between your crisis management and our crisis management. You've made tax increases, 5% VAT increase. We have reduced the VAT on basic foods, precisely so that the needy can get better access to them. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] You raised excise duty, tried to tax people with superbrutto even after income they didn't get. Compared to this, we reduce taxes and sochos for Katas and others. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-04-147	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder, Congressman.
u2020-05-04-148	Thank you very much. We have seen the usual scenario, and we have played this with the Secretary of State a few times in recent months to indicate the problems, problems, questions, and Mr. Secretary of State is either deceiving us that today everything is beautiful and good, of course, the government and its measures, or he is saying that after ten years of government, you are not responsible for anything, but you are pointing to the past, and that sometime in the past, someone has allegedly done something. On the other hand, it is now firmly attached as the third solution, the lying, pardon me, Mr. Secretary of State. So, specifically, you're saying measures, you're throwing numbers, you're saying percentages that didn't actually happen, or they're not happening right now. Unfortunately, I don't have time for this one minute to talk about all this, but in the coming weeks and months, we'll be very happy to play this over and over again. I will continue to say that you have not answered, Mr Secretary, how you will assist these two social groups. Probably didn't. Thank you.
u2020-05-04-149	Thank you, Congressman. Mr. Secretary of State has the opportunity to respond in return.
u2020-05-04-150	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, We always learn new from DK. Not only did Ferenc Gyurcsány have a confusing speech here before the agenda, but we have received a complete reinterpretation of history from DK's representative in recent years, because you, as we know, have allegedly taken away the 13th pension. They didn't actually take the 13th month's pension, but they said they took the 13th month's pension. Allegedly, they've dismissed medical personnel. They said they closed down school buildings. They said they took a month's rent from nurses. They say they chased people into foreign exchange loans. They said they wanted to tax the family allowance. They say they're charging real estate taxes. Supposedly, they've charged hospital expenses. It is said that a visitation fee has been levied, and I could add a list of the lines that have not happened, but that in history they have been placed in a relative sphere for DK, that you were supposed to be in the government when such measures were supposedly taken. Honourable Congressman, Don't look down on the Hungarian voters! Hungarian voters can compare who acted in their behalf and who is for their own good and who is different abroad [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] for the sake of his masters, he has brought the Hungarian people into poverty and he has pressed them. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-04-151	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Antal Csárdi, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology:. Who are invisible to the government? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has given the Secretary of State the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister for his answer in person.
u2020-05-04-152	I'd like to wait for the Minister.
u2020-05-04-153	He'll wait for the Minister. The Minister will have to answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Now, Honourable Parliament, as well as Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, would like to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What are the effects of the measures? It's an address. [[16.10]] Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has given the Secretary of State the right to reply. I ask Mr Csárdi to accept the person of the responding person or to ask the Minister for his answer in person.
u2020-05-04-154	Yes, I'd be delighted to accept it.
u2020-05-04-155	So you'll take it.
u2020-05-04-156	Yeah.
u2020-05-04-157	Good. You have the floor, Congressman Csárdi.
u2020-05-04-158	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As is known, a comprehensive test was launched on 1 May, involving 30,000 people. At last, good morning. Hungary has not been good at testing up to now. Of the neighbouring countries, 275,000 tests were performed in Austria, 195 thousand tests in Romania, 96 thousand tests in Slovakia, 101,000 tests in Serbia, 257 thousand tests in the Czech Republic, and 82 thousand tests in Hungary so far. The situation is very simple. If the coronal virus appears in a country, there's only one way to figure out how many infected we're dealing with: testing. This is also what the World Health Organization has called for, and that is what the government is called upon by experts, and that is what the government's own advisory set called for. Now we've finally started testing, and the thing is, it's been running for days now, according to the press, because we can only get information on this issue from the press. I would therefore like to ask with great respect what the first experiences are in relation to the tests that have taken place a few days ago. How many people have been tested since May 1, with what results? By the way, have you notified the stakeholders, and what are the participation data? I think that the publicity of these data is in the interest of all of us, of all Hungarian citizens, and therefore I look forward to your reply with great respect. I would also like to ask what will happen to our fellow countrymen, in whose immediate vicinity the corona virus has appeared, and they have not been tested so far. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-159	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda.
u2020-05-04-160	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, it is a very important study, a very important research, which has a particular significance both for public health and for the control of the epidemic, and from a scientific point of view, so it is important that this is done with the cooperation of the four universities of medicine. Hungary participates in this research with a number of excellent doctors, researchers and epidemiological experts. As Mr President said, this research project started on 1 May. With great respect, I ask you to understand that on 4 May I am unable to provide you with medical answers and I cannot report the results of the inquiry to you. Of course, as we will report on the outcome of the investigation, but, honourable Member, we are talking about 17 778 citizens who represent the population of Hungary and we are talking about a two-week inquiry, so I think it would be premature to give an account of any results. These studies are ongoing with the involvement and cooperation of the four medical universities. As with the investigation itself, allow me once again to repeat, we will, of course, report your results. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-161	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congressman Csárdi has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-05-04-162	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I am shocked to hear that the Hungarian government does not have daily information on the state of the tests. Obviously, I wasn't asking about the outcome of the ongoing series of tests, I asked how many tests have been carried out in the last four days, how many results have been achieved, and I asked what will happen to our fellow countrymen, in whose immediate vicinity the coronal virus has appeared, and you have not tested them, because you are risking the lives of our elderly countrymen. I'll give you a specific example, I think it takes 15 seconds: District I, where I live, 92-year-old lady's nurse caught the corona virus and refuse to test it. What is this, if not endangerment, please respectfully? ! I think that everyone rightly expects to have daily information and share this daily information with the public. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-163	Thank you very much, Congressman. You have the opportunity to respond in return to Secretary Schanda.
u2020-05-04-164	Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, We probably don't live in the same country or city, and I just didn't understand your speech. Daily information is shared by the operational tribe, and every day it reports exactly how many people have been affected by the virus, how many have died in unfortunate circumstances, and what other new information there is. Honourable Congressman, I believe that you are the only person in the country to be told that on the Koronavirus.gov.hu interface, you will find all the numbers you are curious about here, where you will also find the telephone numbers where announcements can be made. I'm talking about a scientific investigation that you asked me about. This scientific study is currently underway, which was launched on 1 May, for two weeks in different parts of the country. Representative results can be discussed when this investigation has been carried out and, by the way, the results are known. Mr President, there are also technical obstacles, and these tests are not assessed immediately. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-165	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Congressman Bence Tordai, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What is going on here? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has given the Secretary of State the right to reply. I ask Mr Tordai, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister for his answer in person.
u2020-05-04-166	I'll take it.
u2020-05-04-167	He'll take it. You have the floor, Congressman Tordai.
u2020-05-04-168	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Secretary, three days after 1 May, my question is just what the Fidesz government is doing for workers. We know what the Fidesz government has done in the last ten years against the interests of workers: they have introduced a system of public work in which people can be employed under the minimum wage for half of it. Instead of the Labour Code, the employers' code was introduced in 2012, reducing workers' rights and the right to strike. Policemen's overtime money has been canceled, early retirement and early retirement. They introduced the slave law, including 400 hours of overtime, and introduced the public service slave law, including the five-day reduction of freedom. The workers of the cultural sphere are being disorganized from the Public Employee Act, and now, on the grounds of an epidemiological emergency, a regulation repeals the Labour Code, giving employees full access to employers. The possibility of imposing a two-year working time framework has also been introduced, where one-sided 60 hours of work per week can be ordered for one day off a month, without overtime. And those who lose their jobs on 1 July, thanks to your law, will also lose their social security benefits if they are not entitled to active care. We also know what the government should do for the workers and all our fellow citizens, the Dialogue has said a thousand times: a real wage transfer programme must be up to 85 per cent, the duration of the job search allowance should be increased to triple, the amount of the job search fee to double, and the basic income for crisis management should be introduced, guaranteeing at least HUF 100,000 income for all Hungarian residents, and at least HUF 50,000 for each child. What does the Fidesz government do in the interests of workers? We know very well that it's practically nothing. But here you go, Secretary of State, peel the balloon for the next two minutes. I'm looking forward to it.
u2020-05-04-169	Thank you, Congressman Tordai. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda. [[16.20]]
u2020-05-04-170	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Dialogue was an ally of the MSZP, and the party with whom you were practically fully furnished was the party with whom unemployment was in the sky at the time of its administration, a record high, and the party who had a job was taxed to death. So, honourable Member, it would be good to have this discussed at home first. Honourable Congressman, As regards the working time limit, I would ask that you do not attack the measures that contribute to the protection of the Hungarian people's workplace. I understand that you can say anything, any opinion, but the Hungarian people need a job and a livelihood, and to do so, they need the government measures that you are attacking here in Parliament, among other things. Thousands of jobs will be protected during the emergency period if not tens of thousands of jobs can be protected in Hungary by changing the working time limit or derogating from the Labour Code. Don't take these jobs away from the Hungarian people! Do not want to cause new problems and problems for Hungarian families! Honourable Congressman, The fact is that we need real measures and solutions instead of irresponsible proposals. That's what the government's economic defense plan is all about. Once, in such a situation as we are now, let's face it, and in place of your own political interests, bravely stand by the government and support these measures. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-04-171	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for Congressman Tordai.
u2020-05-04-172	The problem, Mr. Secretary of State, is that you are delivering the Hungarian workers to the capital. Even if this would have the result of protecting jobs, it might be an acceptable temporary compromise, but the unpleasant situation is that you have an almost member of the government who speaks frankly is called László Parragh, who said in an interview today that there are 200,000 new unemployed people, and in total, half a million new unemployed. They didn't protect Hungarian jobs, they didn't protect people, they just gave them to employers. The same László Parragh, who is practically Viktor Orbán's chief economic advisor instead of himself, admitted that the amount of unemployment benefit and the three-month period of payment are difficult for the newly unemployed. He added that if the current period proves to be short, we can talk about the extension in the light of experience. So you're expanding your job-seeking allowance, you're taking out a crisis-management basic income, you're protecting people's incomes? That's what we want to know.
u2020-05-04-173	Thank you very much, Congressman. You also have a one-minute rejoinder for Secretary of State Schanda.
u2020-05-04-174	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Dear Parliament, The president of the Chamber of Industry is the president of the Chamber of Industry, not a member of the government. The proposals are made in the ministries, and believe me. [[It's Bence of Turdai's intervention.]] that we take into account the views of our important partners, as we listen to your opinion, at most we disagree with it. It happens to other people. Honourable Congressman, Let me also tell you that whenever you tell us that the Hungarian people need basic income and aid, we do not accept it and do not support it. We think that they should be provided with work, that jobs that can be protected should be protected. That's what the economic defense action plan is all about. You're attacking and trying to destroy this right now. This is what our policy is about to create as many jobs as the virus will destroy. We're also asking for your support. Dare to be brave once and support the measures for the interests of the Hungarian people! Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-04-175	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mónika Bartos, a representative of Fidesz, wants to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question: å How does the government support Hungarian entrepreneurs planning to invest abroad? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman Mónika Bartos.
u2020-05-04-176	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Today, a new phase of protection against a coronal virus epidemic has been introduced, but it is only possible to restart life carefully, gradually, according to a strict schedule. However, life needs to be restarted, so new investments in Hungary are particularly important in times of emergency. The epidemic has completely transformed international competition, but thanks to the successful economic policy of the last ten years, we are in a good position. According to the news, there are four major investments coming into the country. In addition to Unilever, the Chinese BYD electric bus company, the Swiss Flisom company producing solar panels, and one of the leading US service providers, Support Services Group, are already creating hundreds of jobs of high added value. But it is important not only to create new jobs, but also to protect existing jobs. The economic protection action plan aims primarily to save jobs in Hungary that are in danger and create new ones, but in the current situation, we must not forget our foreign fellow nations. As is known, the Government of Hungary launched the economic development programme of the Carpathian Basin in 2016 in order to preserve the foreign parts of the nation. In this context, it provided support for the development worth more than HUF 230 billion, creating thousands of jobs in the affected areas. It can therefore be said that since 2018, Hungarian companies have also participated in a gradual increase in investment. As a result, the implementation of the programmes will not only contribute to increasing the competitiveness of Hungarian businesses and the protection of jobs in Hungary, but also in the mother country. I respectfully ask Minister how these results can be maintained, expanded or supported by Hungarian entrepreneurs who are planning cross-border investments. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-04-177	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Minister Péter Szijjártó.
u2020-05-04-178	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Ladies and gentlemen, In 2016, we launched our economic development programmes in the Carpathian Basin, in the neighbouring countries of Hungary. We have provided support for the development worth HUF 230 billion, thousands of new jobs have been created in the Central European region, 54 984 winning applications have been supported from Hungarian budgetary sources. The congresswoman rightly said that companies already operating in Hungary since 2018 are also involved in these cross-border developments. Thus, these investments not only create jobs for Hungarians across borders, but also represent a major contribution to the growth of the Hungarian economy and the competitiveness of Hungarian companies. I respectfully inform you that, according to the government's decisions last week, we are launching a new investment support category, with a budget of HUF 25 billion, we can support companies in Hungary that create jobs abroad. Basically, of course, we are talking about the Central European region, the neighbouring areas of Hungary. Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises can apply for these investments. Of course, we favour job creation and the preservation of jobs. The aid intensity may range up to 60 per cent, i.e. a maximum of 60% of the amount invested may be granted as budget support. Under the new rule of the European Union, the maximum amount of aid for one applicant can be EUR 800 000. For this reason, honourable Member, we can support some 200-250 Hungarian companies from this new category of applications in their foreign investment. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-04-179	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is available for Congressman Mónika Bartos.
u2020-05-04-180	Thank you very much, Minister, for your reply. We often say in the House that we can only succeed together when we talk about Hungarians across the border and Hungarians in the motherland. If there is a situation where that is very true, then this is the serious state that has been caused to us by the coronal virus epidemic. [[16.30]] I have to say, and on behalf of my fellow members of the Government, I can safely say that many of us have been deeply shaken by the feeling, the realization that we have seen over the last few weeks, that we are not all on the same thought, on the same feeling, on the feeling of belonging, which means our relationship with Hungarians across the border. That is why I also thank you very much on behalf of Hungarians in the motherland and Hungarians living across the border for the efforts that the government is making and making for us in terms of our success together, our development and the restarting of post-emergency life. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-181	Thank you very much. You have the opportunity to rejoin Secretary of State.
u2020-05-04-182	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We, of course, consider the members of Hungarian national communities living beyond the borders as part of the Hungarian nation, so we shape our policy accordingly, and accordingly support their economic consolidation. We regard Hungarian national communities living across the border as a link between us and their country of residence. We see them as resources that can make us stronger ourselves. We believe that it is in Hungary's clear interest to strengthen Central Europe, and that we, members of the Hungarian nation, should live in the mother country or in cross-border areas, can do a lot. Therefore, as long as we govern, honourable Member, take it for granted that Hungarian national communities across the border will be focused on government attention, and we will not only talk about their support, but also act in their behalf. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-183	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Zoltán Magyar, representative of Jobbik, wishes to ask the Minister of Agriculture an immediate question:. Have you forgotten about agriculture? It's an address. Because of the Minister's absence, Mr. Sándor Farkas granted the right to reply. I would like to ask Congressman to accept the person who is responding. [[Hungarian Zoltán: Yes, I accept.]] It says yes. Mr Zoltán Magyar has the floor.
u2020-05-04-184	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Mr. Secretary. You know very well that, through agriculture, the food industry and through it, the entire Hungarian countryside is suffering from a kind of double grip, located in the middle of a bite guard. I don't want to put the drought in the spring or the pandemic on their heads right now, but I do accuse you of the fact that these two problems are so heavy on the Hungarian agriculture. For if, in the last ten years, the vast amount of resources spent on the Hungarian countryside and agriculture from the European Union and partly from the domestic budget had indeed been allocated to the local family farmers, if it had indeed served the interests of the Hungarian people, then these two problems would not have been such a sectoral burden. For example, export markets: we have been talking about this for a long time, and unfortunately they have refused to accept how dangerous it is when our export markets are so uniform, how risky it is, for example, that 62 percent of our exports and 60 percent of our peppers depend on Germany; that our shepherds depend on Italy over 70 percent, as are our cheese producers, and our dependence on Romania is enormous, if we say, on pork, 73 percent, or on wheat flour, where 60 percent is. Even these numbers indicate that the problem was virtually predictable, and now it is in the focus of the coronal virus. But we can also talk about poultry, which is one of the few Hungarian sectors, one of the livestock farming areas where there has been success in the past period, and now the price of poultry has dropped to 230 HUF/kilograms in seconds, and the producers are practically below the cost price. However, on a proposal from the Poultry Product Council, they did not respond substantially, demanding EU import restrictions with immediate effect as the only realistic chance of survival. I would expect a meaningful reply from the Secretary of State. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-04-185	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Sándor Farkas.
u2020-05-04-186	Thank you very much. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, The double grip you have raised could be discussed even further, because over the past few weeks, over the months, the agricultural sector has been hit by more natural factors than we first think of the extremely mild winter, which is not favorable, however strange it may sound. After that, a period such as several waves of early spring frosts was struck in a completely unusual way, followed by the country, and there are still various epidemics, such as African swine fever or avian influenza, and at that time we were practically not talking about the human side, the current epidemic. At a time when you refer to market disturbances, leaving export markets, it should be said that if we look back realistic for the last five, six, seven weeks, Hungarian consumers in the various markets started buying up dumping after the outbreak or publication of a coronal virus epidemic, which was quite unusual in the previous period. This has suddenly caused certain supply disruptions, not because there was no raw material, but simply that the trade network could not do so. Then two weeks passed, the refrigerators were full at home, the freezers, and at the moment it is consumed in a significant part, and this is felt in a significant part of the market. At the same time, the market problems in the various sectors you mentioned are not simple issues that could only be solved by a simple law. That is why we know that these disturbances, whether in relation to pig or sheep products, are at present largely due to the difficulties caused by the coronal virus epidemic. May I continue, Mr. President? [[For signal:]] Okay, I'll get back to you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-187	Thank you very much. You have a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-05-04-188	What you have said, Mr Secretary, we agree, and everyone sees this, the question is what they could have done differently. For example, if, over the past ten years, this annual amount of nearly a thousand billion forints to the Hungarian countryside and agriculture was spent on the fact that the amount of precipitation, which is invading the country, did not spill out unutilised, but on the end of the agricultural land would have caused significantly less damage to farmers in a way accessible, reduced bureaucracy and free of charge, such as the drought in spring. Instead, you have dealt with helping the concentration of your holdings, working on filling your own buddies, and, let alone, during the last ten years, even during the time of the emergency, you have passed legislation by the parliamentary majority which provides for unlimited estate sizes and unlimited subsidies for those who already have more than the size of the Archduke's estate in this country. So they continue to help the most capable, the most supported, instead of saying that in such a lively situation, Hungarian farmers would also have something. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-04-189	Thank you, Congressman. You have a one-minute rejoinder. [[Dr. Lajos Szűcs is replaced by Dr. István Tiba in the notary seat.]]
u2020-05-04-190	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Member, However, I must reject these last thoughts to a great extent, even because if you are a countryman and you are a countryman, you are wandering the countryside, you see the situation of farmers, your financial situation, your well-being, I would almost say that, then these statements are not objective to be subtle. And the issue of irrigation is that it is spilling out, isn't it? We're saying that more water is flowing out of the country than it is coming in, you've been involved in the debate about the bill, which, in the end, I believe that we have been able to accept in a significant part, supported by the Law on Irrigation. The Irrigation Act will provide opportunities within days, unfortunately, with implementation instructions and modifications adopted quite late, which will clearly allow irrigation development and irrigation management not only on this roughly 100,000 hectares, but we can actually double it, and in the coming years, this is a very long and extremely difficult task, but we can manage to keep this area developing. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-191	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, László Szászfalvi, a representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Foreign Minister an immediate question:. What is the situation at our borders? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-04-192	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Your Honour, Minister. The government has declared an emergency more than fifty days ago, and in the last fifty days there have been a number of measures aimed at squashing the epidemic curve, on the one hand, and at helping the economic sectors affected by the epidemic, on the other hand, and at helping people working there. [[16.40]] Our lives have been completely transformed, and the disease control is affecting almost all of our activities. The government declared that the main objective was to protect the lives and health of Hungarian people, and that is why restrictive measures had to be introduced at our borders. At the same time, the government also made it clear that it is in Hungary's interest to maintain contacts between border communities. Therefore, most of the countries in the seven neighbouring countries have been able to conclude an agreement to help commuters cross the border. Of course, it is also in the interests of the Hungarian people to be free to cross the border before the trade in goods, as security of food supply is also a priority in times of emergency. Of course, life does not stop, so the flow of other goods is important, and, as the Minister reported a few weeks ago, EU foreign ministers agree that the free movement of goods must also be ensured in this difficult situation. Dear Minister, The Hungarian government always takes care of the security of the Hungarian people, but at the same time tries to prevent the shrinking of the Hungarian economy. Measures must therefore be taken at our borders which take into account all aspects. On the basis of the above, I would like to ask the Minister how the Government ensures the cross-border safe operation of freight transport and thus freight transport, and to ensure that workers are constantly commuted to neighbouring countries. I look forward to your reply, Minister. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-04-193	Thank you, Congressman. I give the floor to Minister Szijjártó.
u2020-05-04-194	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, This is an ambivalent situation, as we have worked for many years to be able to walk through our borders legally, of course as freely as possible, on as many points as possible, with as little waiting time as possible. We have worked to create as close a network as possible between our border communities as possible, we have worked not to make unreasonable detours, but to build new border crossing points, if not near the distance of 2,5-3 kilometers in Western Europe, and now we are working to reopen at least some of them. The protection of human life and the protection of human health are the first, of course, and therefore the measures that have led to the restriction of passenger traffic on our border crossings were certainly legitimate. However, there was no restriction on international freight traffic. International freight transport must continue to be accessible and fast. Only we Hungarians have made EUR 43 billion in trade traffic with our neighbours, so it is clear that it is in our interest to maintain it. I respectfully inform you that, from today, the crossing point at Bánréve allows the transport of trucks not only to the Hungarian-Slovak people, but also to the Hungarian-Czech and Hungarian-Polish ones. In order for commuters to be able to cross as quickly as possible, we will continue to consult neighbouring countries. Well said, Congressman, we have a deal with six of our seven neighbors. The good news is that from the morning of today the commuters can cross again towards Slovakia in the crossing point at Tornanádaska, and we will continue to discuss with Austrian colleagues that our crossing points at Jánossomor and the Alsószölnök can be opened to commuting workers and landowners in Győr-Moson-Sopron county and Vas county as soon as possible. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-04-195	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You have a one-minute rejoinder for the congressman.
u2020-05-04-196	It is a pleasure to say that every week the Minister announces more and more concrete facts, and he is able to report on more and more agreements, both of which facilitates and facilitates the situation of Hungarian citizens and Hungarian workers, and I can also say that the Minister has announced the opening of a new border crossing point for the near future in my constituency; in Somogy County, Zakány, which we are particularly pleased about, because we have been trying to achieve this result for 20 years, and perhaps now the hope that this border crossing could open in the near future. I trust that the government will act on all fronts in a timely manner, on the one hand, to protect the lives and health of Hungarians, and on the other hand, to preserve the free movement of goods. I wish the Minister and his colleagues good luck, endurance and good health in this difficult work. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-04-197	Thank you, Congressman. Minister Szijjártó has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-05-04-198	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, Thank you for your good wishes and congratulations, and I will, of course, forward this to those who deserve it. I would like to make it clear that once the pandemic is over and life is finally back to normal, we must once again set the goal of legitimately and legally crossing the border in the Central European region with at least the same speed and density as in Western Europe. In Western Europe, the average distance between border crossing points is 2.5 to 3 km, in Central Europe it is still 35 to 40 km. At the same time, I respectfully inform you that an agreement has also been reached with regard to Serbia. At the three crossing points open to international freight traffic, commuting is now possible, so Hungarians in Vojvodina and those living on the Hungarian side of the border can also cross the border for work and agriculture. Thank you for asking. We will try to reach agreements that make everyday life easier for as many Hungarian citizens as possible. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-04-199	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The last immediate question will be asked by Ms Agnes Kunhalmi, representative of the MSZP, to the Minister of Human Resources: "How could this happen? It's an address. Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. I ask the congresswoman to accept the person to whom she is responding.
u2020-05-04-200	Mr. President, I accept.
u2020-05-04-201	He'll take it. Congresswoman Agnes Kunhalmi has the floor.
u2020-05-04-202	Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I'm here to see you about some news from last week. Last Thursday, József Balázs, head of the Hódmezővásárhely School District Center withdrew the order to investigate the number of students admitted to the Horváth Mihály High School in Szentes. The truth is that this instruction also affected the Attila High School of Macedonia and the Batsányi József High School in Csongrád. In these high schools, only two classes would have been started instead of three, but in Mihály Horváth High School in Szentes only three classes would have started instead of five classes. Despite the already announced admissions, several students were supposed to be informed that after they were admitted, they did not receive admission to school. Gergely Gulyás, Minister of the Prime Minister's Office, said on Thursday's government briefing that there should be clear criteria in schools: who will be hired and who will not? What professional frameworks should be laid down, these should be defined in advance, and professional criteria cannot be changed ex post. After the statement, KLIK is true by afternoon, not everywhere has it withdrawn its previous instructions, the planned number of schools can start, but only if the students concerned are re-recording. Be kind to tell us first of all, or to enlighten the country's public about what is happening in the district of Hódmezővásárhely. Do you consider it legitimate that students who have already passed a successful entrance exam under a previous admission system are now being forced to take another more stringent procedure? Why do you think this is a good solution if it really stays that way? Why here? How many places in the country do you think you can expect that? And what's the real reason for the post-empowerment plan, or even the fact that you've come up with that? Thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-203	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári.
u2020-05-04-204	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, All students will be admitted, all students will be able to continue their studies. We have also tried to inform those affected as quickly as possible. No one's studies are gonna have any trouble here. The way in which the admission process is conducted, how students are recruited, is clearly recorded in the legislation. It is also noted that it is the responsibility of the State to ensure that all students are educated and further educated if they meet the admission requirements, the state will do so. We have created the districts precisely so that we can ensure education and education for all students, on a level playing field in all parts of the country. [[16.50]] During the previous period, when schools had a wide variety of maintainers, so many types of maintenance, there were situations where different rules were developed in some settlements, even according to customary law. When we were moving in the direction of this unification, honourable Member, you were violently attacking this; you were also attacking it when the school district system was established, but you were attacking the unification, even when we have recently sought to allow those who are matured to start their school studies, and those who are not school mature, to have another year to stay in kindergarten. You were all attacking them then, and now it's as if you're demanding the exact opposite of that, to ensure that all students have access to education and further education under similar conditions. That's what we did. In this case, please do not make it feel as if there is no further education for students here. Of course, this will continue to happen, as has already happened. And we have also tried to develop schools, precisely so that where there is more demand, whether for residential movements or other reasons, there is more capacity. If you look at it, hundreds of settlements have been modernised in schools, even school expansions. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-205	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Congresswoman has a one-minute rejoinder.
u2020-05-04-206	But, Mr. Secretary, we're attacking nationalization because it happens in a nationalized system. By the way, Sándor Farkas, member of the Fidesz Parliament, wrote on his Facebook that after our concordation he authorised the opening of the additional admission procedure for the school district of Hódmezővásárhely in connection with the high school in Szentes and Csongrád. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm asking you, do you have a replacement? Why do these kids need one more audition once they've been admitted? In this nationalized wonderful success story, why should children be exposed like this? Will it have consequences for the school district manager who puts schools, directors and children in this position? And if this idea didn't come out of the head of the head of the department, would the head of the KLIK have any consequences? It's your nationalized system. I'm just asking questions, Mr. Secretary. [[A statement from the opposition: That's right! Applause in the same place.]]
u2020-05-04-207	Thank you, Congresswoman. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-05-04-208	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, The procedure is a replacement procedure, but you don't have to take an exam for these students. Indeed, there has been an ongoing consultation in order to reach the most appropriate solution for students. And the current system is capable, honourable Member, of modifying the procedures of the last few weeks in such a way that it is best for students. And now, what has come out as a result, exactly shows that everyone can learn in the best interest of students, not take any further exams, but enroll in such a replacement procedure, Madam honourable Member. So I think in this case, too, we can say that the system worked well, giving each student the opportunity to learn. If we look back on the fact that when you were in the government, honourable Member, then everyone had to look at where they were going, let alone with additional recordings, and you closed schools in 386 places, eliminating the possibility of local learning. It was not a question of replacements, but that there was a school in the settlement where you were in the previous years, because you charged hundreds of such school sites. Thank you very much. [[Agnes Kunhalmi: Let's not exaggerate. Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-04-209	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, This item is closed. In view of the fact that no faction has requested an interpellation, this item will not be discussed. We are now continuing our work with discussions on Commission reports and summary amendments. I would like to call on my fellow Members who do not wish to participate in these meetings to leave the Chamber in order, as stated in the previously published Director-General's Information. [[Some of the congressmen are leaving the room.]] I call on the Members involved in the debate to remain in the Chamber only if possible in order to preserve the health of all of us, who have spoken in the debate and who are applying for two subsequent speeches. In order to facilitate this, the chair of the meeting shall inform them thereof. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Law on Criminal Procedure and other related laws and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. Government referral T/9918. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, The debate will be the first to present the position of the Legislative Committee within a 15-minute time frame. I give the floor to László Salacz, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-05-04-210	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 23 April 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the T/9918 amending the Law on Criminal Procedure and other related laws. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 26 votes in favour, 3 against and 2 abstentions. Dear Parliament, As part of the major judicial reform, the Parliament adopted three new criminal codes between 2012 and 2018, the new Btk., the new Be. and the new Penalty Act. As with all legislation in general, they are also justified by the economic and social changes that have taken place in recent years, the international obligations arising from our membership of the Union and other international obligations, the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the recommendations of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights and the practical feedback of the enforcement bodies. The laws contained in the proposal on the House table are divided into three categories. The first contains laws on criminal matters, where amendments are of a substance nature. This includes, for example, the laws of the Btk., Be., Bv. and the laws of the Member States of the European Union on criminal cooperation or international legal assistance in criminal matters. Secondly, due to the close link with these criminal law laws, it is also appropriate to amend the content of certain non-criminal laws. For example, the law on the police, the prosecutor's office or the law on non-compliance may be listed. Thirdly, the bill contains specific technical amendments to a number of sectoral laws referring to changing criminal law institutions and facts. Ladies and gentlemen, The legislative proposals before us prove appropriate to remedy the problems arising from a timely and comprehensive review of the criminal codes in force. The amendments contained in the proposal can adequately ensure the coherence of the domestic legal system and its effective functioning. Therefore, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-211	Thank you, Congressman Salacz. Dear Parliament, I'll ask the author if he'd like to speak now. [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] Secretary of State says no. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was presented by the designated Judicial Committee. It is now up to the representatives to speak on the agenda in the time frame indicated on the table. There is no possibility of a two-minute comment during the debate. First, I give the floor to László Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the group, LMP. [[In the notary seat, Sándor Szabó replaces Dezső the Believer.]]
u2020-05-04-212	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I just want to make a very brief comment. There was a very detailed, lengthy, extensive debate on this bill during the detailed debate, but I would like to respond to some of the thoughts expressed when presenting the opinion of the Legislative Committee. This is about the need for a comprehensive review of the legislation from time to time. However, we can conclude that we are not, or may be, at least in part witnessing such a process, but it is in no way justified that, in the present situation, at the time of an epidemic, when there is an extraordinary legal order, such a comprehensive amendment should be brought before the Parliament in this way without any substantive agreement. It has already been said in the general debate that 110 pages, so only 110 pages in the bill, and 46 laws are being amended. [[17.00]] And it was not even communicated at kormany.hu, so there was no substantive discussion in a situation where special rules were applied in the area of extraordinary legal order, including criminal proceedings. It is therefore a particularly serious challenge for law-abiding people to adapt to these changes during the current period. And if we look at the date of entry into force, here typically 1 January 2021 is 20 November 2020 in the case of entry into force or other elements; there is no reason for this law to come before the Parliament in this way. Almost regardless of whether you can agree with certain elements, not with certain elements, I would not agree to that, I can say that the LMP faction will not be able to support the proposal in this way, just because of procedural problems. Thank you.
u2020-05-04-213	Thank you very much, Mr. Crusade Leader. I'll ask if anyone has anything to say. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. Dear Parliament, The debate is closed and I give the floor to Mr Völner, State Secretary.
u2020-05-04-214	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to the comments of Mr László Keresztes, Mr Lóránt. So, in the expoze and during the general debate, we stressed that the proposals and comments of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, the National Court of Justice, the Hungarian Bar Association, the National Command of Criminal Enforcement, the Office of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights, the National Authority for Data Protection and Freedom of Information and other professional organisations, which have arrived at us since the entry into force of the Criminal Procedure Act, have all been taken into account and discussed with these organisations, so appropriate professional preparation has preceded the drafting of the submitted bill. I ask this House to support this proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-215	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Decisions shall take place at our later meeting. Following a series of amendments to Article XXI of 1996 on territorial development and spatial planning The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/9928. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. Is he here? [[Dr. Sándor Fazekas on signal:]] Yeah, he's here. I don't see the congressman. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee.
u2020-05-04-216	Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 23 April 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed Article XXI of 1996 on territorial development and spatial planning. T/9928. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. By 31 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] Dear Parliament, The existing Regional Development Act III. Chapter 3 of the Act lists the territorial bodies supplying territorial development and their tasks under this Act, including regional development councils. The current legislation on regional development councils is not entirely uniform and does not make it entirely logical, and does not clarify the background and reason for the priority status of each regional development council, so the draft law aims to re-regulate the chapter on regional development councils. The proposed legislation also lists the Central Danube Development Council among the priority regional development councils and records its members. Among the objectives to be achieved with the adoption of the bill is: to make the existing legislation on regional development councils more uniform and logical; to make the tasks assigned to regional development councils and key development councils more transparent; to establish rules clarifying the background and cause of the priority status of each regional development council; to strengthen the role of the country's priority development areas in territorial organisation and implementation of development plans; and to ensure greater coherence between territorial development objectives and the use of domestic and EU funding. Dear House, In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-217	Thank you very much, Congressman. Welcome, fellow Members. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Balázs Rákossy, State Secretary, that he wishes to speak as rapporteur at this stage of the debate. [[On Dr. Balázs Rákossy's signal:]] Later in the debate, yes. I would like to inform the Secretary of State that you will have a 15-minute timeframe. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. There will now be speeches by Members within the time-frame on the agenda. I ask my fellow Members, they wish to take this opportunity. [[No one's reporting.]] Since no one has applied in writing in advance, and now, at this moment, no one from my fellow Members has asked to speak, Honourable Parliament, the debate is closed. I give the floor to State Secretary Balázs Rákossy. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-04-218	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, The government is determined to reduce and adequately address the development differences in Hungary's regions. We hope that, together with the two related proposals for decisions before you, its adoption will contribute to the country's territorially balanced development and, ultimately, to the further improvement of its economic competitiveness. The Committee on Economic Affairs and the Legislative Committee discussed the bill, and the government agrees with the proposals adopted to it, which are essentially legislative. I would like to ask you to support the bill with your vote and to accept it. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-04-219	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The National Development 2030 National Development and Territorial Development Concept is coming in line with the 1/2014. Discussion of the Commission's report on the amendment of the Decision. Government referral H/9929. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Balázs Rákossy, State Secretary, that he wishes to speak on behalf of the authors at this stage of the debate. [[On Dr. Balázs Rákossy's signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he does not wish to speak at a later stage. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to the Members to speak within the time-frame on the agenda. I'm asking if anyone would like to take this opportunity. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give you the floor if you wish to take the opportunity, Secretary of State, Balázs Rákossy. [[On Dr. Balázs Rákossy's signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-05-04-220	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, The Act on territorial development and spatial planning lists among the tasks of the National Assembly, among other things, the adoption by a decision of the priority areas. This task shall be met by the Parliament in the resolution on the agenda. The amendment complements point 7 of the Parliamentary Decision with the Central Danube County Featured Area. The proposal for a Decision also complements the proposal for a Decision on the territorial detachment of the Central Duna Menti Featured Area, which lists the municipalities of the Central Duna Menti Featured Area. The detailed discussion of the proposal for a decision was held by the Economic Committee. The resolution proposal is agreed by the government and there is no debate about it. I ask that the motion for a resolution be supported by your vote and that it be accepted. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-05-04-221	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The Commission's reports for the proposal on the territorial detachment of the Central Duna Menti Featured Area and the discussion of the summarised amendment will follow. The government referral is H/9930. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Sándor Fazekas, rapporteur of the committee. Congressman, you have the floor. [[17.10]]
u2020-05-04-222	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, at its meeting on 23 April 2020, the Legislative Committee discussed the H/9930 on the territorial detachment of the Central Danube High Area. A proposal for a decision. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it by 32 votes in favour, no votes against, with 1 abstention. Dear Parliament, The proposal before us sets out the geographical scope of the priority area and its territorial detachment at the administrative border of 98 municipalities. The priority area covers settlements that were previously the most isolated settlements affected by sectors of strategic importance in the central part of the Danube and, in the near future, they will gradually become involved in the economic circulation by building the Danube Bridges, the settlements located near the Danube Sió section most affected by the Danube water development needs, and the settlements of the field region, which provide a new opportunity for economic development, needing significant improvement. Of the settlements of the Central Danube Menti Featured Area, 28 are located in Bács-Kiskun County, 8 in Fejér County and 62 in Tolna County. There are a number of improvements in the region in a ten-year perspective, of which I would like to mention only a few examples. National and local road and rail development in Kalocsa, for example, new Danube Bridge, water transport development, housing, urban water utilities development, municipal waste management development, municipal development, enterprise development, regional smart energy, tourism development. There is therefore a need for counter-points to ensure a balanced industrial and economic structure in the region. It is appropriate and possible to develop an appropriate regional ecosystem for territorial development, climate protection, business development and innovation activities. Dear Parliament, The newly established Central Danube Development Council promotes synergies between the planned developments in the region, as well as long-term exploitation, recyclability and sustainability of the results. In view of what has been said, the proposal submitted should be supported. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-223	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I will ask Mr Secretary of State if he wishes to speak at this stage or at a later stage of the debate. [[For signal:]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now up to Members to take part in the time-frame on which they are to be put on the agenda. I give the floor to Congressman László Keresztes, LMP Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-04-224	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I would certainly not like to open the general debate; I would only go into general terms at a level that we could hear when we presented the report of the Legislative Committee, but at the same time I would like to take advantage of the fact that there is a Secretary of State here and I would like to put a specific question. These three proposals are now ahead of us, and this third one is connected. I didn't want to comment on all three, but here in your expo on the bill, Mr State Secretary, you said that these three proposals are aimed at reducing territorial differences, so that progress can be balanced. Obviously, we agree that we can talk about substantial economic development if territorial differences within the country are reduced and if the break-down of rural areas can be stopped and there is some perspective for catching up and development. Here, the Member also presented the position of the Legislative Committee, where he mentioned concrete, very important and positive development goals. This area has many settlements, many micro-regions within the restricted area, where there are very, very serious, fundamental challenges and fundamental problems. I would like to give you one example, and in this connection I would like to ask for the help of the Secretary of State, because the population concerned is extremely desperate, and they have really tried every means, every opportunity, to look into the problem that is typical of this region. In particular, Tamási and its region are part of this particular area, and we know that the city of Tamás has very, very serious and long-standing problems with water quality. For the time being, there is no idea where there will be development resources to address this fundamental problem, not such extra services, but the quality of providing healthy drinking water in this region. I would like to draw attention to the fact that Tamási is a locality with a special settlement system, and there are a lot of connected, populated areas where there really are a lot of people, and here the basic infrastructure for life, the basic infrastructure for housing, is not available. So there is no fixed drinking water, no garbage transport, no public lighting, very bad public transport, so there is a lot of walking to the last bus stop, and there is practically no covered road, so there is no infrastructure that can be called road. For the past few years, the maintenance team has tried a road trip once, but this is also a temporary solution. The fact is that when, in the summer heat, there was no fixed drinking water supply needed for those living there to obtain drinking water carried out by a slow carriage, it was also difficult, so they didn't make it at the right time, so they didn't stay at home when the truck appeared at random, and the drinking water was hot in the pot, so I don't have to say. The point is that it is a part of a settlement where the most basic services are not available. We've tried everything here, looking for the mayor, the different ministries. It was a positive step forward that we contacted the Minister of the Interior, who in a very, very clear letter called on the pro-government mayor to fulfil his obligations, so that the municipality must provide healthy drinking water to the people living there. But nothing happened after that, so it still didn't solve the issue. There were so many promises before the municipal elections in October that in the near future the construction of fixed drinking water could take place in this area. Compared to this, after the election, the former mayor, who made the promise, has remained in office, and this promise has already been rejected from the current municipal cycle. So they are completely clueless about how and who will listen to their request. We have tried to find the Member of Parliament, Minister Süli, as well as the Member, and there has not been any real help from there. So here it is very important, Mr Secretary of State, to read these in the bill, which is, of course, important in itself, there is no debate on the importance of balanced territorial development and the development of disadvantaged areas, but when we are in a situation where the most basic public services are in a given region, there is no possibility and hope of building the most basic infrastructure, and there is no access to this, and even a simple request could not be met by the people responsible to at least reduce the risk of accidents by transferring the bus stop, so that a busy road has to be crossed when those affected by the bus leave, how can such government intentions be taken seriously, how can such development policy and development plans be taken seriously, when there really cannot be access to the most basic and important infrastructure? I very much trust, as a number of sources, as many targets, I ask the Secretary of State that he may be able to give some hope of who the people involved can turn to and who will answer this very serious problem. I have just mentioned the affairs of an area, but I think that there is agreement between us that there are a lot of these local problems, and we could give many examples of the situation in the country, especially in rural areas. That is why it would be very important to have a positive response from the Secretary of State that, in addition to the fact that there are large-scale development plans that are obviously in line with the Paks project, which I do not want to open up to the debate on its assessment now, but how and how the affected population can receive support and hope in such situations. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-225	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I am asking my fellow Members, who would like to make use of the opportunity to speak. [[No one's reporting.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. I give the floor to Mr Balázs Rákossy, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate.
u2020-05-04-226	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The proposal for a decision on the territorial detachment of the Central Duna Menti Featured Area sets out the geographical scope of the priority area and its territorial detachment within the administrative limits of the 99 municipalities listed. As was discussed in this detailed debate, this proposal for a resolution complements the other two parliamentary proposals, legislative amendments and amendments to Parliament's resolution, which the Honourable Parliament discussed in the previous two items on the agenda. With this decision, it will place the Central Danube Save High Area among the country's priority areas. [[17.20]] Of course, the Central Duna Menti Featured Area, as the Member has raised and confirmed, will be a development tool for the next period, which will contribute to improving public services and improvements in its territory and adapting them to local needs in the area of the 99 municipalities listed. The proposal for a decision was subject to a detailed discussion by the Economic Committee, where two amendments were submitted. One was of a legal nature, and the other was the proposal submitted by Mr Font Sándor, which wished to add Soltvadkert to the original regional list, and thus the list of 99 settlements that could be approved in this Decision. With all due respect, I would like to ask you to support the resolution proposal with your vote and to accept it. Thank you very much for your kind attention. [[It's a rare applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-227	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The 2001 CVIII on certain issues relating to electronic commerce services and information society services follows. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. The government referral is T/9931. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the committee. Congressman, please.
u2020-05-04-228	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 23 April 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the CVIII of 2001 on certain issues relating to electronic commerce services and information society services. T/9931. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. 28 votes in favour, no votes against and 4 abstentions. Dear Parliament, Hungary is obliged to comply with its legal harmonisation obligations as a result of its membership in the EU. In this way, Directive 2010/13/EU on the coordination of certain laws, regulations or administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the provision of audiovisual media services is amended in view of changing market conditions 2018/1808. Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council should be transposed into national law by the Hungarian legislator under the revised AVMS Directive. Ladies and gentlemen, It is well known that the situation of the media has changed significantly over the last decade. Instead of family television, millions of Europeans, especially young people, look at online and on-demand content on different mobile devices. The share of global internet video sharing in consumers' online traffic is on an increasing trend. It is therefore necessary to revise the AVMS Directive. Thanks to the proposal submitted, the National Media and Communications Authority in Hungary will be able to exercise supervisory powers over video-sharing platform providers and to deal with specific disputes and impose sanctions. The revised AVMS Directive defines video-sharing platform services as separate service categories, clearly separated from media services and other content services. The difference is based on the fact that video-sharing platform providers do not have editorial responsibility for the content made available. While the traditional media service provider exercises effective control over the selection and compilation of programmes, the video-sharing platform has no influence on the actual content beyond the organisation and organisation of the content. Under the new rules, video-sharing platform providers do not have editorial responsibility, but have content consequences you will have to take preliminary action. Such content requirements apply, for example, to commercial communications, harmful content for minors and to specific illegal content such as hate speech or terrorist content. In the spirit of transparency, the new regulation also makes it mandatory for video-sharing platform providers to fix their general terms and conditions. Dear House, In order to fulfil the obligations of harmonisation and to ensure greater protection for the public, in particular for minors, the proposed legislation should be supported. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-229	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Tamás Schanda, on behalf of the rapporteurs, whether he would like to speak now or at a later stage of the debate on the agenda. [[For signal:]] The Secretary of State indicated that he would like to speak at a later date in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian from the Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-04-230	Mr President, Dear House, Since I do not have a promise, but I have a strong hope for a State Secretary's reply, I am sure that I will draw out all aspects of the question before us. As a consumer policyr for Jobbik, I am a nun, or, if I can quote my hobbies, the rational introduction to Hungary of all provisions and any ideas that could guarantee the safety of consumers, customers and citizens, and personally I am very pleased that a week or two ago we were able to hold a consumer debate in its intelligent category, and that, in the general debate, professional arguments were, therefore, superior to those not so professional. I am about to call upon the government to turn back from the catastrophic path that it had begun, which had begun to terminate and plow the Consumer Protection Committee, and then continued by making the consumer groups, in a perfectly correct manner, the creation of new ones for the future, impossible by this government, and then by making another bill that could be made by former consumer group organisers, such as Antal Rogán's housing lotto concept. I'm really glad that the government is turning back on this road. I can fully support the idea before us with regard to the protection of minors, even if I have serious reservations about its vitality. It can be seen that those video-sharing sites, community solutions and a very, very wide range of young people operating through different networks cannot, if you like, be controlled by 101 percent of the solutions achieved by XX. The question of the need for control arises in some cases. Once again, I would like to say that in terms of the protection of minors, we cannot be thorough, forward-looking, cautious, so here I fully support the proposal that lies before us, but at the same time I will stop for a moment in the subpoenaing concept of hate speech. I stop because as a naturally democrat patriot, I reject any manifestation that condemns someone, if any, on the basis of their religion, origin, or other definition. I am at least so irritated by the anti-Hungarian foaming-mouth hate speech, because there is such a category in Hungary; I often miss the action against it in order and often. At the same time, since 1968, hate speech and quote muzzle laws in Europe have been perfectly capable of using them as a political club against opposition players and of mutering representatives and public figures, who have made up the current regime, the present authority, where appropriate, with this political club. I see, therefore, that we are talking about the implementation of a European regulation, and I do not want to put behind it any dark intentions that are not there. But I also see that if this framework is not developed, if the brakes and counterweights are not included in the future, it will be suitable not only for you, the current government, to support the opposition. You're going to be in opposition position, aren't you? No one really thinks that the Fidesz-KDNP will rule for another 30 or 60 years, because it won't. The order of things and winds is that, once in a government, once in a opposition, these powerful forces will be in opposition, and whoever now makes reasonable rules will protect himself during the next cycles from being silenced, if necessary, by reference to hate speech. That is why I think that the Democrat supports this regulation; who is a patriot and a local patriot, like myself, but who demands his hard-core wording. I am not referring to a taxatical list in a regulation or a law, but to the fact that, according to the flow chart that has been observed since 68, the liberal forces, but not only those, have been silenced by hate speech. [[17 .30]] This trend should come out of European public and public speaking, as we can see the dangers of this, and we can see the damage. If I, for example, want to be a patriot committed to improving demographic trends and translating them in the right direction, I would like to capacitate someone or a wider group to do so, because I think and really think this is the most wonderful and important mission in our lives, then I have been given the negative signs of it many times in my life, and I am sick of it after a while. This proposal, which lies before us, with this type of transposition, I do not mean to say that it opens the door to similar processes, but if it no longer regulates this issue, but we will only slavishly take over what has been invented in Western Europe, then this danger will certainly rise again and again, which is why I support the protection of minors in all respects. On the other hand, I am distant from other categories which are less defined, defined and now to be imported, and I really hope that this distance can still be dissipated. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-04-231	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-05-04-232	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I, too, wanted to start by saying, like my better fellow Member, that the general debate on this matter was a fresh spot between the many political give-and-takes on that day. We have been talking about an important and indeed today's topic in professional depth and the root causes of the problem, since we see that the previous Council Directive has been in place for only ten years, the digital world is changing so quickly, the new challenges that arise, whether in video-sharing portals or in social media, are always encouraging the European Parliament and the Council to adopt new directives. I think it is right to transpose this regulation into the Hungarian legal order. It is also right that the lower level of legislation under this will be developed by the Ministry, as there is the possibility of a much more effective, faster response than waiting for European directives or even the laws adopted by the Hungarian Parliament. Basically, I've always been on the side of rigour in protecting minors, and here, the constant tightening up may be a deterrent, for example, a deterrent. With regard to the concerns raised by my fellow Member, I would like to say that as long as he is a Fidesz-KDNP government, you will certainly not be charged with hate speech if he promotes childbearing or calls attention to family policy. We're certainly not going to charge you politically with this. I think that this is not a hate speech, although I have been given several times in international forums, that when I mentioned family, childbearing or, for example, the marriage of men and women, we were personally accused of hate speech, exclusion and other different adjectives that could not be said to be nice at all. We see such a liberal mainstream effort, but I do not think that there should be a place for this in Hungary, that if someone talks about the family in a positive sense, it should be described as hate speech. On the contrary, everyone should be encouraged to have a family life, to have children. I think it is very important, and I also stressed this in the general debate, that we ourselves should lead by example in the field of digital awareness, and that in education, education, the education of our own children, schools, we should focus on raising digital awareness in children, so that the growing generations can use these tools, using these opportunities in a way that they can fully understand this responsibility and see not only opportunities, but also responsibilities. This includes cyberbullying, the subject of digital harassment, which we have talked about several times in this House. I think that there is also a political consensus that this should be done as strictly as possible. So I would encourage all of us to be leaders in digital awareness, not to sit up for false news, not to sit up for phishing sites, not to sit up for hate messages or videos that might destroy this image in public opinion. I think that the transposition of this directive will also be supported, and we will obviously expect more in this House, because further steps must be taken to regulate the digital market and to stop hate speech. Of course, as we have said, the governing parties will support this. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-04-233	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-04-234	Mr President, Dear House, It seems that we are at a moment of grace, since they find serious identities regarding the protection of parliamentary parties, of minors. 80% of my KDNP fellow Member's words embalmed my soul, and I am very happy for him. I have a problem with 20%, and I just can't stand it. I'm not saying to get involved, just to mention certain things. The fact is that in the production of false news and fake news, I feel that the current government has opened up new dimensions in the life of Hungary, which I have experienced on my own skin. This has peaked in the harassment of my family members, including my 80-something grandma with a camera, watching their family house with a drone, shooting footage. All of this must have gone to court afterwards. So far, as I recall, we have triumphed at eight trials against the various organized smear campaigns, unfortunately I have to say, fidesz background psychics. My community has won more than 200 press trials. Luckily, that's all I got. It's not a good hobby to go to meetings and talk about the psychological damage that this has done to family members. So I can accept the honesty behind our common intentions if the regulation also provides a solution in the long term so that such cases against my fellow Member Nacsa, against the family members of Secretary Schanda and no one else in Hungary. I am absolutely determined that not only do I not want to harm you personally, but certainly not your family members. We're political opponents at best. Obviously, we use political means to convince each other that our views are correct. Sometimes this happens in a vehement, combative way. I control this tension relatively more easily thanks to my history of fighting sports, at least that's what I'm leading it back to; someone else is leading it off in a different way. But I must call on you to have a common responsibility to establish a framework so that our immediate family members do not have to go into such unworthy situations, and as long as this is unsolved, please refer more carefully to false news production and other things, as I was also shown at the time of living in a villa, a palace and a billionaire in another district. Fortunately, this is not the Hungarian reality. I don't want that kind of life for myself either, decent, working, active, working life all the more. But I'm pretty sure I'm not gonna write, order, publish, distribute similar articles about any of them. I would like to see a regulation that will also spare our family members, members of the opposition, from similar drivings, because I think and I think that if we are exposed to this now and do not change the framework, then in the future it will be exposed to something else, and this will lead to a never-ending pendulum game, to which I personally do not want to give my name. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-05-04-235	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-04-236	Thank you, I'm sorry, I only asked to answer by addressing you. Of course, I think that everyone should condemn such circumstances, and I'm glad that you managed to do so in court, if I understand correctly, take satisfaction, or in some way obtain it. We, too, could tell such stories with my fellow Members. My fellow Member Bona and I were just reciting a similar incident, and we were also suffering it. I don't know, for example, you know the name "Jelly Pussy," but there's been a number of cases like this. I agree with the joint responsibility of the parties, the joint responsibility of the media that support the parties, that otherwise, acting in a fair framework, but, of course, with our political opponents, we should remain strong and firm, but within the rules of fundamental fairness. This is what I wish for in the next period, too, that we have a tough political battle, that we have many debates. Many times we will not agree, just as we have not agreed many times in the past, they have always been able to remain at the level of political give-and-take, hopefully this will remain the case in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-04-237	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak under the item on the agenda. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see any contact. The debate is closed. [[17.40]] I give the floor to Mr Tamás Schanda, State Secretary, who wishes to respond to what has been said in the debate. Here you go.
u2020-05-04-238	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I think that I can add little in substance now, since MEP Ádám Héyj gave a detailed explanation of the reasons and content of the bill. To do that, every additional sentence would be a waste of time. And in the debate, during the general debate, we discussed in detail the purpose of the bill and its precise content, so allow me to make only a small reaction to some of the comments that have been made today. On the one hand, it was surprising, perhaps quoting the old Jobbik, that things coming from Brussels were suspicious. I understand this fear of the congressman, and in some ways I share it. However, allow me to reassure you that this proposal for harmonisation is essentially a well-meaning amendment, which adds to the Hungarian legal system by basically transposing it into the Hungarian legal system, not by taking it away from it. At the same time, I understand your fear, Congressman. As a matter of fact, the answers to your questions are as follows. This amendment will provide additional protection for minors, and the use of filter software will also be simpler and more effective, and those who are banned or disadvantaged by hate speech will have a stronger right than before to ask for official action so that their original rights can be restored in principle. Allow me one more reaction, which is less professional. In no way would I like to turn Parliament's session into a psychotherapy forum about who has the grievances, but allow me to draw attention to the fact that I have also been published on Jobbik's official Facebook page and on the side of its leading politicians with photographs of sentences that were not or were not said in the same way, and there is no connection between the image and the text added. I'm telling you, despite the fact that I don't want to turn this forum into something else, allow me to add so much to what you said. In summing up the above, allow me to say thank you all for the constructive contributions and the thoughts that have been expressed. If I have seen correctly, no individual amendments were tabled to the bill, and this may indicate that the honourable Parliament is about to adopt an important and truly forward-looking proposal and regulation. That is why I am asking you to support the bill in the final vote. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-239	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, It follows from the 2012 CCXVII on participation in the Community greenhouse gas trading scheme and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. The Commission's reports on the amendment of the Act and the debate on the draft amendment. Government referral T/9919. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, First, the position of the Legislative Committee will be presented in the debate. I give the floor to Congressman Ádám Héjj, rapporteur of the committee. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-05-04-240	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 23 April 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the participation of the 2012 CCXVII in the Community greenhouse gas trading scheme and the implementation of the effort-sharing decision. T/9919. Bill No. 1. The summary amendment proposal and the summary report are set out in the House Rules 46. It adopted it unanimously by 32 votes in favour. Dear Parliament, The reason for the amendment proposed by the House's table is that the European Union 2019/1603. Commission Delegated Regulation No 6 complements the EC Directive 2003/87 with regard to the obligation to report on aircraft operator emissions by extending the scope of reported flights and requiring the use of new file formats and, thirdly, requiring Member States to report to the International Civil Aviation Organisation for the implementation of ICAO global market based actions. The provisions of the legislation currently in force are not in line with the provisions of the new Commission regulation, and it is therefore essential that we comply with our legal harmonisation obligations arising from our membership of the EU. Ladies and gentlemen, The amendment itself is the implementation of a Commission regulation into national law, as the International Civil Aviation Organisation established a regulatory package in 2016, called CORSIA, which is a regulatory activity that can only result in CO2 emissions in the field of aviation, and therefore cannot increase emissions at sectoral level. The legislation obliges organisations and companies in the field of aviation to provide data and from 2020 it will request data in an appropriate table format, which will make data that are not yet compatible and comparable. The work of the entire area will be carried out in Hungary by the National Climate Protection Authority. Dear House, Hungary has done its best in the area of climate policy and climate protection, and has always tried to implement the necessary legislative amendments as soon as possible. The government's efforts to ensure that by 2030 the energy supply in Hungary is 90 percent carbon-free should be highlighted. The proposal before us must be supported as it makes the necessary amendments resulting from our obligation to harmonise legislation, while ensuring that our country meets the international requirements for CORSIA, in particular with regard to reporting. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-241	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Tamás Schanda, Secretary of State, whether he would like to speak now or later in the debate. [[Tamás János Schanda: Later.]] Mr Secretary of State indicates that he intends to speak at a later stage in the debate. Dear Parliament, No rapporteur was drawn up by the designated Economic Committee. We now have speeches from Members. I ask my fellow Members how they wish to take this opportunity. [[There's no candidate.]] I do not see an application; the debate is closed. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-05-04-242	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Mr Ádám Ádám Héj again presented the purpose of the proposal in detail and in depth. So I have nothing but to thank all the Members who participated in the general and detailed debates and to share their thoughts and suggestions with us. As I see it, basically all political groups clearly support the adoption of the bill, which can be a law that is widely supported and contributes to our common goal of combating climate change, in this case in the field of aviation emissions. Dear Parliament, Thank you once again for your comments, and I would ask you to support the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-243	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, The decisions will take place on tomorrow's meeting. Dear Parliament, The next item is now on the agenda of the Legislative Committee from 18 a.m., so the plenary session will continue its work with the consolidated debate after the meeting of the Legislative Committee has been concluded. Now I'm going to call for a break until the legislative committee's meeting is over. Thank you for your understanding. (Sunning: 17.50 18.36 President: István Jakab Note: Dr. István Tiba and Sándor Szabó)
u2020-05-04-244	Dear Parliament, I report that the Legislative Committee has finished its work, and again I welcome my fellow Members. We'll get back to work. A joint debate on the political declaration on the importance of the protection of children and women and the refusal to accede to the Istanbul Convention. Proposal by Imre Vejkey, KDNP, Hajnalka Juhász, KDNP, Lőrinc Nacsa, István Hollik, KDNP, Members P/10393. Number 2 is available on the parliamentary IT network. Dear Parliament, I give the floor in the debate on the proposal for a political declaration to Mrs Hajnalka Juhász, rapporteur of the item on the agenda. Congresswoman, please.
u2020-05-04-245	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that our Fundamental Law states that Hungary protects the institution of marriage as a voluntary community between a man and a woman. The Istanbul Convention adopted by the Council of Europe Ministerial Committee in 2011 entered into force in 2014. Two important political and legal concerns arise with regard to the Istanbul Convention. On the one hand, Articles 3 and 6 of the Istanbul Convention provide for a perspective based on gender roles based on social perception when transposing the provisions of the Istanbul Convention and, on the other hand, a possible interpretation of Articles 60 and 61 of the Convention which renders the requirement for women to enter the group concerned automatic. Compliance with these interpretations would require a revision of domestic legislation that is far from the Hungarian government's migration policy. In this connection, I would like to read out how the concept of gender, or gender, is defined in Article 3 (c) of the Istanbul Convention. The social roles, forms of behaviour, activities and characteristics that a particular society considers appropriate in terms of women and men. In this sense, the Istanbul Convention is not based on the biological sex and requires gender roles to be taken into account for gender aspects in a number of policy areas. Pursuant to Article 6 of the Convention, the Parties undertake to incorporate the social gender dimension set out above in the implementation of the provisions of the Convention. Pursuant to Article 60 (3) of the Convention, the Parties shall take the necessary legislative or other measures to develop an asylum procedure taking into account gender-based guidelines and gender-related aspects, including the definition of refugee status and the application for international protection. I would like to emphasise, as an example, that the Slovak Parliament rejected the ratification of the Convention at its extraordinary meeting on 25 February 2020 and that Latvia, Lithuania, expressed similar concerns. I also think it is important to stress that certain manifestations of the Istanbul Convention expert group, GREVIO, reflect fundamental differences in approach between the Hungarian government and the parliamentary majority in the interpretation of gender-based equality and asylum and migration measures. It is also important to stress that the Government of Hungary considers effective action against all forms of violence against women to be a priority and rejects all forms of violence against women and against women. In Hungary, the criminal law measures taken in recent years, as well as the three victim support centres established so far, have shown that the Hungarian government is committed to curbing the abuse of women and intends to provide effective and accessible assistance to victims. The judicial portfolio, with the establishment of victim support centers, sought above all to make citizens aware that if they became victims, they should know that they were not left alone, that they had nowhere to turn, and that they would receive all the help they needed. In the spirit of zero tolerance, the Hungarian government strives to ensure that as few women as possible suffer abuse in Hungary. In the government's legislative work, this objective is constantly reflected and enforced. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Hungarian Government has already made contact violence a separate criminal case in the new Criminal Code in 2013, one year before the Istanbul Convention came into force. The points of the Convention, which we also regard as a value, have been part of the Hungarian legal system for many years to protect children and combat violence against women. However, we cannot support the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, because some of its provisions are contrary to the government's migration policy, and we do not want to make the concept of social gender a part of our national law, nor the genderideology of the Convention, nor do we want to legalise illegal migration. We believe in real government action, effective action, support for abuse and prevention of abuse in the fight against women and violence against relationships, and we therefore say 'yes' to the protection of women and a strong 'no' to illegal migration and genderideology. We therefore call on the parliamentary factions to vote in favour of this political statement rejecting the ratification and binding effect of the Istanbul Convention. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[18.40]]
u2020-05-04-246	Thank you very much for your speech, Congresswoman. I would like to inform Congresswoman that she has a total of 14 minutes and 50 seconds to speak during the debate and to give her rejoinder. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask Mr Pál Völner, Secretary of State, if he wishes at this stage of the debate... [[Dr. Pál Völner says no.]] Mr Secretary of State points out that he does not wish to speak on behalf of the Government at this stage of the debate. Dear Parliament, The position of the Legislative Committee will now be presented within a time frame of five minutes. I give the floor to Mónika Bartos, the rapporteur of the committee, first. Here you go.
u2020-05-04-247	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at its meeting on 4 May 2020 the Legislative Committee discussed the importance of protecting children and women and the refusal to accede to the Istanbul Convention T/10393. Proposal for a policy statement No 1. The summary report of the committee is set out in Rule 82 of the House Rules. By 25 votes in favour, 6 against and no abstentions. Ladies and gentlemen, As my fellow Member Hajnalka Juhász said, Hungary's Fundamental Law declares that our country protects the institution of marriage as a voluntary community between men and women, as well as the family as the foundation for the survival of the nation. Our country is currently ensuring the protection of these values at the highest possible level, enshrined in the Fundamental Law. The provisions of the Istanbul Convention which provide for a legislative task are in line with the Hungarian legal system, i.e. our national law provides the necessary legal guarantees for combating women and domestic violence. It is true that the challenges posed by the modern world have to be answered, but when responding, the supreme representative of the people must, in his legislative work, bear in mind the nation-sustaining power and values of Christendom, in line with the will of the people. Therefore, any external pressure which attempts to force decisions against the values of our country and the democratically declared will of the majority of Hungarians must be rejected. The ratification of the Istanbul Convention cannot be supported in two respects. On the one hand, it is not because it provides for an approach based on the definition of social sex when transposing its provisions into national law. On the other hand, because the provisions of the Convention concerning the provision of asylum on grounds of sex are contrary to the political objectives set out in the 2015 Parliamentary Decision to the leaders of the European Union and to the domestic legislative environment ensuring effective action against illegal immigration. Ladies and gentlemen, Hungarian legislation has the right to defend the culture, traditions, national and constitutional values of Hungary. The gender-based perspective of the provisions of the Istanbul Convention could lead to obligations for Hungary in the event of possible accession to the Convention that are contrary to the existing basic legal and legislative environment. It is precisely because of what has been said, in view of which, in my view, of the proposal that has been tabled. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-04-248	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mrs Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, who will present the minority opinion on the committee. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-05-04-249	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At the committee meeting, I spoke to my fellow Member about bringing the second political statement to the House within a short time, in which, although they are asking for support from the opposition, they are submitting these political statements under unfair conditions. Of course, it is argued that there is no anti-occupational nature to make these statements, but we have seen how, in recent years, laws have been abolished with individual motions and how they are trying to carry their own will through the Hungarian Parliament in a day or two. What is very interesting is that, before the elections in 2014, it was very important for Fidesz to ratify the Istanbul Convention, and that was also mentioned, and at that time they were very different to this convention. I also said that in recent years, although Hungarian legislation is so good at reducing domestic violence against women, children, disabled people or men, we know from statistical data that the numbers have not improved. In fact, I also drew attention to the fact that real data may come out best in the current situation when families are closed together, and we can see that domestic violence has increased by 30 percent since the coronal virus is present in Hungary, and that we may need to monitor the statements of professional organizations that we see more closely. And I also drew attention to the fact that the death of a single woman, a single child, or a single disabled or elderly person cannot be accepted if he dies by violence or domestic violence. I also asked the pro-government politicians not to make such political statements now, and, above all, to do so now, on which they constantly refer to their willingness to cooperate with the opposition; they want to push it through Parliament. Please stop this kind of legislation. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-05-04-250	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, It is now time for the speeches by its representatives. I would like to inform you that the factions have 10 to 10 minutes, and the independent representatives have a total of 2 minutes. The two-minute contributions during the debate shall be included in the duration. [[18.50]] I am now giving the floor to my fellow Members who have applied in advance in writing. First up is Ms Gabriella Selmeczi, Fidesz Group. [[Dr. Gabriella Selmeczi: Mr President, Congresswoman Mátrai will tell you.]] I'm sorry. I ask you to understand, but I still had this script at my disposal. I give the floor to Mrs Mátrai Márta, representing the Fidesz Group. Here you go, ma'am.
u2020-05-04-251	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I join P/10393. on the draft political statement by KDNP representatives on the importance of protecting children and women and refusing to accede to the Istanbul Convention. I agree with the protection of women, but at the same time I do not accept genderideology and support for illegal migration, and I therefore reject the ratification of the Istanbul Convention and its binding scope. The Hungarian government not only says, but also takes the necessary steps against violence against women and against relationships, and does not wish to mislead illegal migration and introduce genderideology. The Orbán government signed the Istanbul Convention in 2014, the articles of the Convention protecting women and children are in force in the Hungarian legal system, and the new Act on Family Law protects against contact violence., Ptk. So we can say that Hungarian law provides strict protection for both women and children. However, ratification has been cancelled. It has fallen behind, given that the approach of the Convention to force us is contrary to the will of the Hungarian people and the aspirations of the Hungarian government, and that possible accession to the Istanbul Convention could result in an obligation for Hungary which is contrary to the existing basic legal and legislative environment. The political atmosphere that is currently under way by the opposition is simply unacceptable. The government does not wish to make the concept of social gender or the genderideology of the convention a part of our national law. On the other hand, it intends to take real government action against violence against women and relationships, to support those who are abused by effective measures and to do everything to prevent it. The interpretation of the further points of the Convention in the light of the statements made to date is of serious concern, since it would automatically make the requirement for entry of those seeking asylum on grounds of sex an automatic basis. The Hungarian government rejects this insidious, stealthy legislation, which is an unacceptable method, either in agreement or in law, a form of legal violence that must be rejected even with a little sense of rights. On the basis of the above, I support with conviction the draft political statement rejecting the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. I recommend that my fellow Members pay attention to Mr XXIII. In 1963, Pope John's circular was published, and I quote, he puts it as follows: "As women today are more aware of their human dignity, they do not tolerate being held either inanimate objects or tools, and they even demand that human rights and obligations be applied to them, both within the walls of the home and within the state. This is guaranteed by the Hungarian legal order. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-252	Thank you very much, ma'am. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Ms Zita Gurmai, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-05-04-253	Thank you very much. Dear House, István Szilágyi, 82-year-old Hungarian citizen is dead. He was beaten to death by his own son, who had repeatedly abused him before, so much so that the abuser was brought to justice, sentenced to two years of imprisonment, three years of probation. This was in July 2018, less than two years ago. The killer was protected by his father, so to speak, covering for him, not testifying against him. By the way, this is common among victims of domestic violence. It's understandable. The victims are scared. They fear, and if they do not receive assistance from the community, from the state, they are often powerless in the vicious circle of violence. István Szilágyi, 82-year-old Hungarian citizen, who is known and loved by this country as Gáspár Lópici, was not protected from repeated abuse and, finally, from the terrible, shameful death. Dear fellow Members, The representatives of the government side are wrong about a lot of things, in the interest of their frustrated gender pollination. The two most important are that they believe domestic violence is a feminist domestic affair and that it can only be the victims of women. Well, no! The example of István Szilágyi shows that it is not. Anyone can be a victim if they're weak and vulnerable. Of course, when we draw attention to this over and over again, it is more convenient to look at us, the bearers of bad news, as bloodthirsty feminists, personics, as the author of the Fidesz's home message book said the other day. Dear gentlemen, ladies. Look at you. What do you think? Is the beating given to those who deserve it, or do they agree with their former fellow Member, who found the cause of the injuries of his partner in a blind comondo? Did István Szilágyi deserve to die, or did he pass through the blind comondo? Tell me how you see this thing. Here we stand today, seeing the shocking and sad example of domestic violence, and knowing how difficult this country is today. It is amazing that your brain, my fellow Members, is not at all concerned with how to improve our situation in these circumstances. It is shocking that their hearts are not filled with solidarity when tens of thousands of people lose their jobs, when families are in a hopeless financial situation, when abusers are forced to spend more and more time locked up with their abusers, terrified of beating up in their own homes. It is amazing that they do not feel the urge to act when, according to the head of the National Crisis Management and Information Telephone Service, the number of calls for help in Hungary has doubled in recent weeks. No, even in a difficult situation like this, you're wondering how to kick victims, the weak, preferably a big one. Tell me how you woke up this morning. They thought to send a message that there is no need to protect anyone, because everyone is perfectly protected, because no Hungarian is alone? That's what the great Prime Minister said. They've added that we should think about it a little bit, play gender and migrant, and it'll help heal the wounds if someone is accidentally beaten, which, of course, in our beautiful country is unlikely, but if they do, should there be a replacement solution? Well, fellow Members, congratulations. István Szilágyi was also well protected! They were as alone as István Szilágyi. The thing is, this whole statement today is a pathetic little kindergarten attempt to cover up domestic violence in the period of curfew and quarantine to cover up your inability to do anything about it. For the sake of fairness, it should be added that they are not unable today, but in general, for ten years now. Unfortunately, it is not true that the often mentioned lie is that Hungarian legislation protects the abused, but I will come back to that. The fact is that the abused do not need small ideological foaming in kindergarten, the abused want community, state protection, and they do not care how they sand. With all due respect, let us not take what they are doing seriously, and let us, in particular, not turn it into a parliamentary debate. Send a message to the victims of domestic violence, the MSZP is in favour of adult solutions and wants to help them, not entertain themselves with childish toys, as our dear fellow Members from KDNP do, unfortunately not for the first time here during the emergency. [[19.00]] It's grown-up stuff. I will also tell you that I see progress, yes. It is right that the government announced the year of victim support, it is right that, under the pressure of Hungarian women, contact violence in the penal code has become an independent fact, and it is even right to tighten the conditions for parole. That's not what our argument is about. For those who commit domestic violence, the main question is not when they get out of prison, but why they don't get in there. The adult solution is to make sure that S. Peter's abusers will go to jail if they lay a hand on their parents. The adult solution is to make sure that violence does not escalate to the fact that a country wakes up in shock to the death of its beloved and respected actress. So let's finish the ideological foaming and focus on the task of protecting the victims. Let's finish the tantrum and get to work. In English, I say that everyone should understand that we can also call the result the Felcsúti Convention, and Viktor Orbán may be the savior of the victims in one person, but I beg you, let us create the means to ensure that there are no domestic and domestic victims of violence. Now, let's protect those who are abused. Now! So what should be done? Without the need for completeness, the most important tasks are to establish a separate budgetary basis for prevention. We need more school psychologists. The fight against domestic violence must be integrated into the National Basics Plan, and, more importantly, we must ensure that the subject takes place in the classrooms. Law enforcement and justice workers should be trained in relation to the nature of violence. We need to strengthen the signal system. The capacity of the mother homes should be increased. Last but not least, we must first decide that domestic violence should be a mandatory and ex officio issue. Victims are always, under all circumstances, afraid. Let's help them, stand by them. If funding is difficult and demanding, we will be happy to help you find multiple sources of funding between stadium privileges and oligarchs' public procurements at any time, and we even have dozens of proposals on where the necessary budget money is for this task. Again, please step out of the sandbox into the world of adult solutions. Let's act. That's what the abused, the suffering, the weak are waiting for. They're waiting for the help hand, let's stretch it out. We'll be partners in every good adult solution, but not in ideological foaming and tantrums, so don't count on that. Please, just stop. And finally, before I finish, there's something else that hurts. I am sorry that some people in the Chamber regularly claim Christianity and Christian Hungary as a reference to their personal frustrations, repressions, sufferings, and the neighbor's cow should also die with a password. But if that's the case, then allow me a few sentences about hypocrisy. You know, in better places, in happier communities, in healthier groups of people, you live your faith with joy, serenity, hope in your heart, and, of course, among your brothers in the temple, you do not bewitch, you do not hypocrite, and you do not want to pretend to be a god like some people in this room. I remind you of Christ's words in the Sermon on the Mount, "This is why I say to you, unless your truth surpasses the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter into the kingdom of heaven. Well, unfortunately, you are not at risk of going to heaven yet, because you are unable to overcome Phariseeism. Unfortunately, your delusion is that you are God, but I inform you that God does not agree. On this sad day, all honest Hungarians and abused people cheer with all their heart to finally fill their souls with true faith, love and mercy; perhaps even István Szilágyi, who unfortunately can only look at this unworthy debate from where you are now, with this attitude, after a considerable amount of confession and repentance. This political statement today is another thing that you can add to the list of your sins to be confessed. Grow up, this isn't a game.
u2020-05-04-254	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-05-04-255	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Congresswoman spoke of Phariseeism, and she also said that the Btk agreed. tightening up. I'd like to ask why the MSZP didn't vote for it. Why wasn't the entire opposition a partner in that? Jobbik, Wind Bernadett, LMP, and the Democratic Coalition did not vote for a stand-alone case in the Criminal Code of Relationship Violence [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Because it was a salad law!]] and has not voted in favour of any tightening up on this issue. Congresswoman, look to yourself when you talk about Phariseeism and ask your own party, and ask your kind allies why they did not side with the abused, abused women and children at that time. Then why did they spit in front of them, why did they reject them, so why didn't they hurry to help them when they were expecting you? Even then and ever since, only the Fidesz-KDNP could count on the abused women, because we have been the ones who have constantly, consistently in the last ten years and, above all, in the last seven years, tightened up the legal status in this regard, both here in Parliament and in the legislation created by the government. Congresswoman, you also know that if tragic events have already been brought up, of course, the whole country mourns István Szilágyi, God rests on him, that all sacrifices must be mourned on the one hand and, on the other hand, it is a blatant sin to do so. But I must also say, Congresswoman, that under your administration, there would be far less punishment for the murderer of István Szilágyi than it is now. If you were to govern now, the murderer of István Szilágyi would be able to escape with a much lighter penalty, because you did not pay attention to these restrictions, brought to Parliament, and did not think it was important. Congresswoman, during your administration, there were double the registered crimes committed in one year, a lot more criminals running around the street, a lot more crimes. We have been able to reduce the number of crimes by half since Congresswoman Agnes Vadai no longer governs. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Because they don't press charges because it doesn't make sense!]] [[President Tamás Sneider, Vice-President of the National Assembly.]] In Hungary, relationship violence is below the European average, so do not impose false statistics on the public and the parliamentary record. It is due to the fact that in Hungary there is a relationship violence below the European average, that we have established strict rules, in many cases stricter rules than those contained in the Istanbul Convention. Of course, in many places we regard the objectives set out in the Istanbul Convention as valuable, which is why we have introduced them into the Hungarian legal order, which is why we have brought a number of proposals here to Parliament and adopted them. There is also more stringent regulation or equivalent regulation in Hungary than it is, and we regard it as a value in the Istanbul Convention. As today's legal order stands, it would be a step backwards to ratify the Istanbul Convention. Let me say a few words about the ideological outburst that Congresswoman has been talking about, and how they would like to blackmail us with this. Both the Member and the opposition representatives know that the Hungarian Fundamental Law contains a pass that the state also protects women by means of separate measures. This is the Fundamental Law, which Ferenc Gyurcsány declared to be completely abolished. You would abolish the Fundamental Law that protects women with specific measures. This is your policy, Bernadette Wind, the graduate communists, the MSZP and Jobbik. You want to abolish the Fundamental Law that protects women through specific measures. The aim for us is not to ratify the Istanbul Convention in accordance with all international pressures, because then the opposition will be calmed down and the European Parliament will be pleased, the aim for us is to provide real protection for those in vulnerable situations. That's why we work here every day, which is why we're doubling the amount of victim support, which is why we're starting programs, and that's why we're tightening up. All the tightening-ups that Mrs Gurmai has mentioned, all the proposals on prevention and victim support are welcome here in this House; not the gender convention, but the proposals that you are bringing here to tighten up. I will personally support proposals that are tightening up on this issue. But this is not the gender convention, which otherwise states that gender should be interpreted as a socially established role. The ratification of the Istanbul Convention would put women's retirement after 40 years of employment, as well as a number of constitutional and legal regulations for the protection of families and women at risk. The Hungarian people have said no to migration on several occasions. Once again, we consider 80 percent of this treaty as value and agree with it, but there are two ideological Trojan horsemen that are unacceptable. [[19.10]] We do not want to introduce destructive gender views in Hungary. You have already tried this, you have tried it together with SZDSZ and Hungarian Bálint. If there had been no change of government in 2010, the gender would have been in the kindergarten on 1 September. This would have entered into force on 1 September 2010. Congresswoman, don't tell me you didn't, because you did. One of the first measures had to be taken out of the regulations, so that small cars were not mandatory on 1 September, and no babies had to be placed in the hands of the boys. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Jesus!]] This was what they wanted during the government marked by the names of Ágnes Vadai and Zita Gurmai [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Me?]] That's what your government would have wanted. In this Convention, genders are referred to as socially established roles. This is contrary to the Hungarian Basic Law, and it is also contrary to our own convictions, which is why we reject these points of the Istanbul Convention. Congresswoman, please respond to the one thing that you cannot do now, because your timeframe is over, but I would like to take your answer: in countries that have ratified the Istanbul Convention, could you not bring up such tragic cases as István Szilágyi? Of course you can. Relationship violence in a country is not eliminated, it is not because a gender agreement is ratified, it is because a responsible government takes effective measures and a responsible parliament accepts constant tightening up. This will reduce their numbers, and we hope it will stop them, and everyone who commits such a crime deserves the most serious punishment. We totally agree on that. But don't try to impose on us the ideologically charged treaty in which they talk about genders as socially established roles, because there are men and women, and no other sixty-seven types, as you can register on social networks, or as Bence Tordai imagines. [[Defiance in the opposition's benches.]] We don't want our children to have to learn gender introduction and destructive gender perception in kindergarten and school. But one more thing we do not want: to facilitate continuous inflow, migration, with the agreement. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: There's no such thing!]] The gender-based... you didn't read the treaty! [[Krisztina Hohn: Yes, you can.]] The problem is that you have been informed of the Istanbul Convention from the international liberal press and have not read its 60th point, you have not read its 61th point. I would like to draw your attention to points 60 and 61, because it says how this convention wants to facilitate migration and inflow into Europe. One more thing is in the agreement: if we accepted this and understood it as binding on ourselves, the monitoring system created for this purpose could force the amendment of the Hungarian Fundamental Law. This is a sovereignty debate. [[Dr. Gurmai Zita:]] I'm not gonna get into this right now, but you guys are not gonna notice. Why don't they notice? Because they fear that their comrades in Brussels will scold you for supporting one of these. Let them be partners so that we can accept the restrictions. There have been no partners in this, Ágnes Vadai has also voted against the criminal code case of relationship violence. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] you did not vote for it, Congresswoman, the opposition did not vote for it. If it had been for the opposition, there would not be such protection today for abused children and women in Hungary. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: But it's not like that!]] I think it's hypocritical for you to worry about that. Let's work together to help victims, do it together for prevention. The gender convention is not suitable for this, and the migrant convention is not suitable for this. I'm asking you to step aside from putting the Istanbul agreement in front of the public, among the representatives, and constantly... [[Noise from the opposition benches. Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You don't know what you're talking about!]] I'll listen to you too. I ask you not to promote the gender convention here in this House, but to work together to help victims, and to make up for their past mistakes, not to side with the victims, and in the coming period, to accept our proposals, which are tightening up, as far as victim protection and prevention are concerned. I'm asking you to deal with this, not the gender agreement. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-05-04-256	Thank you, Congressman. I also welcome my fellow Members. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Ágnes Vadai, on behalf of DK.
u2020-05-04-257	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I have studied the political statement submitted thoroughly, and I have even listened to the video of my fellow Member Hajnalka Juhász and Lőrinc Nacsa, and I have now also listened to their speech. I have two preliminary remarks. The first is that some pro-government representatives have said so many weeks and months here that it is quite shocking. What is even more shocking is that, in the spirit of Christian love, my fellow Member Hajnalka Juhász and Lőrinc Nacsa have also said how much this government has done for women, how many steps it has taken to combat all forms of violence against women. I must say that both your videos and your political statement and your current speech are quite cynical and impertinent. I've gathered some thoughts from you, KDNP and Fidesz on how you think and think about women. András Aradszki, Member of the KDNP Parliament, posted a manipulated picture of my colleague Anett Bősz on his Facebook page in the spirit of respect for women. You, I mean, KDNP, were talking about a singles tax in 2017, obviously also in order to respect women. The KDNP SS poster in Pécs-Baranya announced the government's family policy. Then, of course, the big brother Fidesz arrived when this political decision was presented and they approved how good it was for the Parliament to accept this political declaration. László Vigh, a Fidesz representative, obviously out of respect for women and in order to protect women, posted a photo on your Face with the title of your soul. Imagine, fellow Members, what photos were there. You, I mean, the women who were pro-government representatives, had a lot of good pictures, and of course they were beautiful and kind, and we were ugly and bad. It's the only pictures that Congressman Vigh managed to put up. Then your favorite government paper arrived this weekend, obviously also in the spirit of combating verbal violence against women, and this is what you wrote about opposition representatives:. Mega's many unnatural, deterrent examples, women's sex, so many violent, foolish humiliators and abusers of the women's principle. Then I thought that we should look for a source much better or more credible than the Hungarian Nation, so I visited Mr Máté Kocsis' Facebook page, Mr Group Leader, because he regularly posts on the opposition ladies, today my colleague Ágnes Kunhalmi, but a few days ago he also posted a post on me, during which the following comments were published, and I would like to quote a few of them, even more beautiful ones. Zoltán Kisbódi was able to enter the following comment:. The only survivor of swine fever. László Körmendi wrote: "The little sow thought again that he was still in the truck park, as he used to be, where he could scream without problems. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I wanted to tell you this because it's you and the voters you're pissing off, who are allowing themselves to have this kind of tone with women. After that, I am sorry, to say the least, it is impertinent, cynical and rather impertinent of you to submit such a proposal for a resolution, which aims to remove the international agreement on violence against women from the table of the Hungarian Parliament. I note that in 2014, it was the government that you supported that signed this agreement, and there was no constitutional problem yet found in the case. It is very strange that I should explain to you what Christian love is, so don't be angry, Congresswoman Juhász, if I say that when you speak in a pious voice about Christian values and the protection of women, all I hear is false voices. That's just bullshit you're saying here. Let's get to the part where you would simply throw out the whole system of protection for domestic violence from Hungary, the Istanbul Convention or genderideology. I'd like to know what that is. Really, tell me. If there's no pink ribbon in the girl's hair, is that gender? If someone writes their doctoral dissertation from a comparative analysis of anti-terrorist policies, is that gender? Or gender view or genderideology? If someone was State Secretary of Defense or Vice President of the Defence and Police Commission, is that gender? [[Dr. Wind Bernadett applauds.]] What's gender? Why don't you explain it to me? What do you think of these things? 'Cause we're just hearing gender, gender, gender, but no one ever explained it. To be honest, do you think that the right thing to do, or would it be the female principle if I didn't stand here, like, in leather jackets and pants, but in skirts, jackets, little pink ribbons? [[Defiance from the opposition benches.]] I'm sorry, in your mind, there's an idea of women and men, but the reality is very, very different. [[19.20]] And the truth is that when you say things like that in the National Assembly, you are playing gender, you are not only sending the message to Hungarian women, I add, because there is also an abuser among Hungarian men, so that they do not count on you, but you are sending a message saying that a woman should not be a race car driver or a fighter pilot, but she is not a mason. I'd like to ask you honestly, what's that got to do with you? [[Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] Really, what does it have to do with who wants to be in this country? It's not that I'm sorry that if a woman or a man thinks he wants to be a fighter pilot, a race car driver or a mason, then regardless of what you, I don't know, has in mind a purple steamy idea of a woman, can it be? Isn't that what this country should be about? ! And isn't it about creating equal pay for equal work, for example? To be honest, fellow Members, you are here in connection with the Istanbul Convention, which I simply do not understand, and I believe that not only I do not understand, but you do not understand what you are talking about. They were talking about gender. They don't even know what it means. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] No, he doesn't seem to know. You said he was a communist with a degree. I would like to say that I am a multi-diplomatic, multi-lingual communist, since I am a serialist and could still be classified. I'd like to ask you, if that's what you call us, and if that's what all your rags call us, which I've listed, and if your representatives post these on us, that's what makes you better in this country. Does that make it less domestic violence? Congressional ladies and gentlemen on the pro-government side, such verbal violence and such narrow-minded feudal thinking are the origins of domestic violence. Because you think it's a woman's job to sit at home, cook, wash, iron, and otherwise raise the child, and be grateful when the man of the house comes home and put the food in front of him. [[Anett's intruding.]] Please, that's not how this world works. And believe me, a lot of people in this country are happy to wash, clean, iron, and be happy when their mates come home and put them in front of him, put the food in front of him. But if you have to listen to yourself every day to a woman's job to do that, then after a while, even the person who did it with pleasure won't do it with pleasure, because she feels that you are giving her a mandatory role. What I would like to say to you is that you should rather think about taking down these posters in the middle of your current big campaign, in the middle of the poster campaign, many have seen them, stop redeploying budget money for this, and, for example, spend a lot more on protected houses, because opposition settlements and opposition authorities in Budapest had to spend on protected houses. Or spend this money on the social security system, which has been bled to the extreme, and as a result, a lot of women and children in this country have died of domestic violence. By the way, think about it, and help everyone understand what gender is. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-258	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mónika Dunai, from the Fidesz Group.
u2020-05-04-259	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, There is, however, some courage and charm when the opposition goes so far as to interpret God's words here in this House in Parliament. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] He interprets God's supposed words. But also in the fact that Ágnes Vadai has just made a statement that, I think, is smiling, not only we are used to it, but to everyone in Hungary when he talked about verbal violence. Here, within the walls of the House, verbal violence is present [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Especially Fidesz!]] Here too, from the mouths of opposition representatives and among many opposition women. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Give me an example. Give me an example.]] I was glad that as Zita Gurmai began his speech, he said that everyone was bowing their heads to artist István Szilágyi. I knew him personally because he lived in my constituency. If you wish to be punished in this case and to be protected in this case only the mother, then you should vote against István Szilágyi for this statement today. [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] He interprets God's supposed words. But also in the fact that Ágnes Vadai has just made a statement that, I think, is smiling, not only we are used to it, but to everyone in Hungary when he talked about verbal violence. Verbal violence is present here in the House (Dr. Andrea Varga-Damm: Especially from Fidesz!) Here, too, from the mouths of opposition representatives and among many opposition women. (Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Give me an example. Give me an example.) I was pleased as Zita Gurmai began his speech, he said that everyone would bow their heads to artist István Szilágyi. I knew him personally because he lived in my constituency. If you wish to be punished in this case and to be protected in this case only the mother, then you should vote against István Szilágyi for this statement today. (Sic!) Because the Istanbul Convention protects women. (Intercoms in the ranks of opposition parties. ) It protects not men, but women, and it is even stated in the preamble that it protects girls and girls, not even that it protects all children, so it is severely discriminatory. In that case, you should vote in favour if you think it is necessary to protect not only women but also men. Ladies and gentlemen, The Government of Hungary and Fidesz consider all forms of violence against women and their effectiveness to be a priority. In legislative work, this objective is constantly reflected and applied year after year. As of 2013, one of Europe's most rigorous criminal codes has come into force. This criminal code also provides for relationship violence. Here, in this case, it is true that the Hungarian legal order does severely punish domestic violence, but one of the strictest passu of the law deals with not only physical but also psychological factors and abuse of violence. I am asking why you, opposition representatives, did not vote for the Btk. version that came into force from 2013. Yet these passes, these laws are more stringent in all forms of violence than those contained in the Istanbul Convention itself. So the Hungarian legal order protects those who have suffered violence more strongly, everyone, not only women and not just girls, but also boys and men. Ladies and gentlemen, These mechanisms appear in the Hungarian legal order. The authorities and the competent authorities will try to enforce and enforce them with rigour of the law. We in Fidesz and KDNP have a culture of respect [[Interventions in the ranks of opposition parties.]] We condemn anyone who disrespects the elderly, who disrespects women, but also those who disrespect men, boys or children of any sex, which are two sexes: the boy and the girl. The fact that, since 2015, millions of migrants have been invading Europe, the world has changed radically should not be swept under the rug. We can no longer talk about the objectives that were put on paper when the Istanbul Convention was established. Today, it is necessary for each nation and the European Union to act with rigour of the law against any crime that affects women when child prostitution, polygamy, and abuse of women are common in some countries of Europe. What are we talking about, fellow Members? ! The Fidesz Group and myself support this proposal because it is a pillar in the fight against migration. What we need is protection for both women and men. And the fact that you're trying to make women and men jump against each other on this subject doesn't make any sense. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-260	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Krisztina Hohn, on behalf of the LMP.
u2020-05-04-261	Thank you very much for the floor. It is not so easy to comment on this political statement, but I will try. I've been thinking about folk sayings a lot lately, which is what I used to quote in Parliament, in case you guys like it. One of them: the money is counted, the woman is beaten. Do you remember that there was such a Hungarian proverb? I'd just like to remember it by the way. Then, in another's eyes, the splinter, and in my own eyes, that's not one of my favorite sayings. I'll tell you why I'm saying this. Do you know what the Istanbul agreement has grown into today? A symbol. [[Nacsa Lawrence says no.]] Yeah, he's grown into a symbol. Yes, it is! My fellow Member Nacsa remembers, you know, it is true that nodding was not included in the particular law which is my favorite, but you were also a petitioner of this, by the way. [[19.30]] I've been terrified lately when I see your name in some of the laws, because it's not going to happen; I'm just going to keep that casually. [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] So, why did they sign it? Tell me why Fidesz signed the Istanbul agreement in 2014, if that's not good? ! And the other thing is, how come you guys have this thing on your mind when there's an epidemic? Really, what's he got to do with it? [[Continued exposure to opposition benches.]] Are we gonna pull out the migrant card again or what? It's not a big enough epidemic, or what? I don't understand. I don't think this is the time for this. The other is that you know that the problem is not the rigour of laws and penalties, but that we do not pay enough attention to prevention, we cannot provide the unfortunate victims who are subjected to domestic violence, so that it is not common for you to be sure that you deserve it, and you have certainly done it for it. I'm guessing he couldn't fulfill the female principle. Neither did I, but I had a completely different reason for that, you know? And I find it very insulting that many of my women or women, what we want to call it, is that you regularly remind people that, say, barren or other things. And, you know, it's you who, unfortunately, derail communication to the level that my fellow Member Vada was talking about, that, yes, people dare to allow themselves to write names and faces that make no difference whether it's an opposition voter or a pro-government voter, that it's absolutely amazing! I'm also upset when you're being scolded, believe me, because you're writing things that don't tolerate printing ink. But why is that? When it's your way of saying it? I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Homemade ideologist!]] His ideologist writes such things in the Hungarian Nation, it is gastric and quite amazing. But we already know that's what I said here, that bird about his pen, man about his friend, right? The other thing is, I used to think that when I came here, this... [[Lőrinc Nacsa: György Gémesi!]] You know, you shouldn't yell. You put it in, and I'm talking. So when I came here to this house, [[Deterioration in opposition benches.]] I thought that this was a place where normal political communication was conducted, where everyone complied with the rules of conduct, both opposition and party of government, before I could get it, but unfortunately, it is not so. I'm so fucking disappointed right here. I am disappointed that, unfortunately, many of our superiors also speak of their female fellow Members as quite amazing, and who can make a bigger statement? Botor to bring forth beautiful words from the Hungarian language. I do not want to participate in this competition, let us say, so I try to continue to communicate so that such things do not come out of my mouth, because I find it demeaning that the first people in the country behave this way to each other, with their fellow Members, do not. A man who doesn't have three or four children is a poof and 65 grandchildren are no longer human. [[Continued exposure to opposition benches.]] You know, that's what it comes down to. I understand and read, believe me, the Istanbul Convention, and I've seen your presentation, because I can read, and I can even read. It's a treasure these days! Man is not functional illiterate, but very, very much comes from this: in fact, women should be next to the wooden spoon and with their three or four children. Yes, it is! And even if you tell me that you're against violence against women, I believe that. All normal people are against it. And any normal person with normal values is against violence against children. It's a perfectly natural thing. But the Istanbul convention is a symbol. And this symbol is actually raised by you. Telling us 43 times in five minutes that it's a migrant, a migrant, a migrant, a migrant, doesn't mean it's a migrant law for us, believe me. And to say 43 times that gender, not gender theory, and not gender, I don't know how much love that comes out of it, but that you don't want to acknowledge it... I believe that there are, in fact, points in the Istanbul Convention that have already been partly implemented in Hungary, but why did they sign it, tell me if they do not want to ratify it? What the hell for? ! Cancel the signature, tell everyone that Hungary does not agree with this, and that is it! Why did you have to sign it if it took you years to finally issue a political statement that you didn't support? ! I understand what you're doing. I'm guessing we've been putting in too many of the ratifications of the Istanbul Convention myself, so now you're telling us to stop, because it won't be accepted even if we stand on our heads. I understand that. We do, too, with a lot of other legislative proposals, and I'm gonna wonder if we're really gonna file... now you've promised that you'll support us if we put in a bill that will help us reduce the number of domestic or domestic violence. And the other thing is, I told you about infertility. I am very pleased that there are more flask options for couples, this is a very good thing, but I have already submitted or suggested amendments to adoption, not through ParLex, but personally, unfortunately none of them have passed. However, one is not antihuman, it was not anti-child, but rather I wanted to suggest that anyone who could not have children can have children, and that should be helped, but I regret to say that this helpful intention happened a year and a half ago, I still do not see it. Now we're gonna put it in the form of a bill, and we're gonna see if we can get one of these, which you're willing to take over. Thank you very much. That's all I've got for now.
u2020-05-04-262	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congressman Bence of Tordai, on behalf of the Dialogue.
u2020-05-04-263	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Citizens, First of all, we really need to figure out what this bill is doing and what this proposal is doing here in front of the Parliament. We have said this a thousand times over the last few weeks, and they have promised that only important and urgent matters relating to the control of the epidemic will be tabled. Obviously, like all their promises, they're breaking their promises, so if a Fidesz-KDNP politician moves his mouth, he's got a good chance of lying, so we're not surprised. The fact that the reasoning of the proposal is half silly and half a lie is not worth going through. My fellow Members and fellow Members have done this quite nicely in the last speeches. So the real question now is, what is the real reason behind you wanting to back out of this treaty you signed; it was signed by Tibor Navracsics as Minister of the Orbán Government, so there is no way to say that the signature was passed on to some hidden Deputy Head of Department. You took this seriously, you agreed with him, there was no accusation of unconstitutionality or fundamental law. Obviously, this argument is also perfectly false. One of the possible explanations is that when the Istanbul Convention is ratified by a normal country, then the monitoring body will consider whether it will respect it and, after you have given very, very poor performance in the protection of victims of domestic violence in the prevention of domestic and relationship violence, therefore fear that if an international monitoring were to take place, it would turn out that it is the result of your negligence, incompetence or lack of will that more than 50 women still die every year because of domestic violence. There are thousands of cases that the authorities are aware of, and yet remain unchecked. It's not the strictness of the criminal code. Actually, a lot of the laws are pretty much in order. It should not be further tightening up, as we generally know that committing a crime is not a threat of more severe punishment, but the greater likelihood of being caught is holding back the perpetrators. [[Dr. Pál Völner nodds.]] Mr. Secretary of State nods, so it looks like it's professionally [[Dr. Pál Völner: It is good to be strict!]] is the State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior That's what he said. So it would be good to have these laws enforced, and it would be good to put those measures aside. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Fair!]] the threat of punishment to prevent these types of crimes; if they were to listen to civil society organisations which they themselves can brand as agents of Soros and do not happen to learn from them, they would not, by chance, allow them to help prevent and deal with such serious social problems. There's a lot of sensitive training going on in the entire justice system. You don't know how many times... [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Try it!]] One more time. [[Nacsa Lárinc intervenes.]] My fellow Member, Nacsa, press the button and explain your opinion, explaining why the Hungarian system of victim protection and the whole system of justice are not prepared enough to prevent, stop, detect and punish domestic violence, because the Fidesz government is very badly involved in this area. [[19.40]] So despite the big words, the actions show that you are inadequate to solve this problem, or you do not want to, and if you were to be subject to regular control in this area, it would reflect very badly on the Orbán government. The other one, which could explain not only this, is the grunting of the Istanbul Convention, but also, in general, the war on women that has really begun to peak over the last few weeks, that you really have this view of women that women are not equal to men. Viktor Orbán and his slepp, his circle of friends, or his spiritual hinterland make all kinds of revelations that make this clear. When Viktor Orbán says that I do not deal with women's affairs when it comes to female ambassadors; when his number one buddy says that she is not a man, and he is jokingly trying to disguise it as a Székely proverb, he feels that there are very serious problems, which end up in blind co-monitoring in the comments that their public is burping back in response to the raging of Fidesz KDNP politicians against opposition women. It's pretty amazing. So I must think that, after we suspect, we know, we see that the Orbán government, or Viktor Orbán in general, has the political world view, if there is, at least not too solid, so let us not start with this 2014 signature, then let us start from what they do and how they say about women. Apparently, women cannot be equal citizens in the worldview of this kind of Christian fundamentalist, oconservative, radical view. And that's what they're trying to cover up with all kinds of gendering and migraines. Let's just say that what they say is not only meaningless, but they are also completely unimaginable, if they mean even a fraction of it. And then there is the third solution, which is a popular solution to political analysis, that they are such a weak performance in the economic and social treatment of the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic that they are trying to distract attention with these fake fights. Now it is very useful for you to say that in the opposition public, there is much more talk about why Fidesz people are really swimming against Hungarian women than how many people are dying of disease or secondary loss, in order to put it this way, as a result of your health measures; or how many people are losing their jobs if they did not have to come up with a crisis response package with sufficient speed and force; or how many people are deprived, because we know that in the last few weeks at least 200,000 people have lost their jobs, there are half a million people without jobs, and now the number of people whose monthly income does not reach 100 thousand forints for their adult life, is well over 3 million, live in poverty, or on the border of about 3.5 million people. You want to distract attention from these failures as far as this third point of view is concerned. And actually, that's believable. So they take out some symbolic conflicts, they know exactly what they can do to provoke not even opposition, but simply the well-meaning, decent-thinking, humanist public opinion, and then they put these little spikes under the fingernails, and then they wait for screaming, and then they say, ha, ha, the opposition screams. No, the opposition stands for the fundamental rights that all our fellow citizens, every woman, deserve. You guys seem to think it's a simple game, but it's infinitely disappointing, and it's really an impression of the moral depravity, the moral lack of maintenance, the infinite cynicism that we experience in everyday life in relation to virtually all of your actions. So if I were to sum up these thoughts as citizens, I must say that I find it completely shameless, shameful, and completely timeless that this shameful motion has been brought before the Parliament. As a humanist and feminist, I see that this is a huge step backwards to the past, to the Middle Ages, and you are not committed to the future, but to the past. As a sociologist, as a former university lecturer, I tell everyone here who's playing gender theory and genderideology that you can sit down and talk some nonsense. As a man, I apologize to the Hungarian women for themselves. For the stupid, macho, anti-female politics that has been going on here in the last few years, and it looks like they're going to continue at turbo speed in the coming years. And as opposition representatives and dialogue politicians, I see them struggling desperately to divert attention from their inadequate, amateur, inhumane crisis management and its failures. They want us to deal with such symbolic matters and not with the shock of people's income security; how difficult it has been for millions of people to make a living; how many they lack. They want to cover it up with pointless, unintelligent gendering and migraines. I'm telling you, you're not gonna make it. Reality is going through these political tricks. But it is important that we are here and stand by equality between women and men, ratification of the Istanbul Convention, support for domestic victims and prevention of such violent events, as it is the least we should do as Members of Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-04-264	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to independent Congresswoman Bernadett Wind in two minutes.
u2020-05-04-265	Thank you for the floor. Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, I have two minutes to comment in this debate. This is very little, I have more to say, but I didn't even get two minutes at the committee meeting this morning when I went in because I saw that three KDNP Members had tabled this proposal and I wanted to ask them why they were doing this. I still don't understand why you guys are doing this. We are two days after the 30-year anniversary of the formation of the first freely elected Hungarian parliament, and we are one day after Mother's Day. Did you really spend Mother's Day putting this together? [[Bence of Turdai: Shame!]] Because it's the truth. It's full of wooden mistakes, it's all wrong, it's all made up. A man with a law degree doesn't need to write one of these. Don't you have lawyers? For God's sake, the European Union has already joined the Istanbul Convention in June 2017. Its title is to join, while they are talking about ratification. Where do you live? ! But that's not what I wanted to talk about in the little time I have, but that I condemn it terribly, and I am outraged that abused women and children are being used for their petty political games. It's outrageous! [[Lőrinc Nacsa pointing to opposition representatives: That's not there! Dr. Pál Völner: The other way around!]] Why did you have to submit this now? We have always known that you do not want to ratify the Istanbul Convention on the importance of protecting children and women. We already knew you didn't want to ratify it, so why did you need a political statement now? Why is that necessary? Why are you doing this? Plus, they know we're in the middle of an epidemic. The number of telephone calls is one-and-a-half times the number of people in Hungary who report contact violence. Why bring him to the House now? Don't you care that much about people's fate? And it is a special shame that it is the three people who are calling themselves Christians whose name is attached to the submission of this political declaration. I have the names of the people on my Facebook page who passed this on to the committee. And note that history is being written here, because in 2020, bringing such a statement to the Hungarian women, to the Hungarian Parliament, it is a betrayal, betraying Hungarian women, betraying Hungarian men, betraying everything I believe in as a humanist, a human lover, a man of solidarity to the weaker. Shame on you, all of you.
u2020-05-04-266	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Congresswoman Anett Bősz, on behalf of DK.
u2020-05-04-267	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, You claim and the declaration states that domestic legislation and institutional systems are sufficient to reduce domestic violence. But apparently that's not true. In January 2015, a man who had previously abused his partner returned home after his parole and dropped his six-month-old baby off the third floor and jumped after him. In December 2019 he killed two of his children following the parole of a man who had almost beaten his former partner with a hammer. My honourable pro-government colleagues argue that the opposition did not vote for the amendment of the Btk. with the tightening up. This means that you are interested in revenge on domestic violence, but we are concerned about prevention. And even though we say that it is not enough to prevent domestic violence, our signalling systems do not understand that. They have no idea that the main thing is not to retaliate, but to prevent domestic violence, and that they are causing huge damage to Hungarian society. Thank you.
u2020-05-04-268	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, from Jobbik. [[19.50]]
u2020-05-04-269	Thank you very much. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Is our colleague Nacsa Lőrinc a good boy? Yeah. A good husband? Yes! Is he a good father? Yes, and yet you can submit such a self-righteous, lying political statement just because Fidesz is so cowardly that you are pushing the representatives of the Christian Democratic People's Party as a shield to spread such a political declaration, which completely ignores victims of relationship violence.2014. 14 March, one month before the 2014 election, Fidesz doesn't know that the reduction of the liar's rent will bring him a win in election 14 and, of course, will do so, deceiving all the people who are victims of relationship violence to sign the convention in Istanbul. In addition to Hungary, 34 other countries have ratified this convention, including our neighbours, including 9 non-EU countries. This convention is not a Brussels gentleman's mischief. The Council of Europe thought that, in order for the very serious world phenomenon of growing violence within the relationship, even though our lives are more modern, our lives are more open, that in most countries inequalities between the two sexes have ceased to exist at a legal level, but not in everyday life, in order for these types of violence to finally cease, this proposal for a treaty gives us a gesture to the peoples of Europe to follow a direction. The greatest latency of all crimes is within contact. I am very sorry that my fellow Members cannot read. This agreement concerns not only women but also children and all family members, whether male or female, who are being raped. All it takes to highlight women is that if you like it or not, criminal statistically, 92 percent of women are injured in relationship violence. That is the fact: he does not want to raise women up, but simply wanted to put before the people of Europe from reality and from reality, the gesture that the most important thing should be institutional systems, attention, rules and punishment, as my fellow Member Mr Anett Bősz rightly said, and not just retaliation. Yes, the Hungarian rules are already strict, but the number has not decreased significantly. And I'd like to talk to you about a few more questions here. On the one hand, I would like to state that the Jobbik Movement for Hungary in this political circus, which you have brought here to this House, does not wish to participate. Of course, we are speaking now, we are saying our position, and we are not going to take part, because we are not assisting you in the middle of the coronal virus epidemic, when you are apparently unable to deliver serious results in the health and economy areas, with a huge crisis for the people of our country, you are coming to this House with this wrestling. Please, one of our fellow Members just said it was stealth legislation. Stealth? Well, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán sent Tibor Navracsics to Istanbul on 14 March 2014 and told him to sign. Yeah, right, because at the time, it was in his political interest to sign it. And that is why this proposal is false and lying. And one more: fellow Christian Democrats, when you talk about migranting, do you know what you're talking about? They're talking about when a refugee woman in whose country you're stoned, the genitals are mutilated, girls forced into forced marriage at 9 to 10 years of age, they should send those people back there. You want Parliament's vote on this! In this legislation, the issue of migrants is only the part where they talk about not sending women and girls back to countries where their lives are in danger, which is written down in the Convention. So please go to the temple, confess to the good Lord all that has been brought here with this proposal, because your position is not true. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-270	Thank you, Congresswoman. I now give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian.
u2020-05-04-271	Mr President, Dear House, I am very pleased that, on the part of our group, we are not willing to participate in the clowning that Fidesz-KDNP has done in Hungary. So the fact that you don't know your own position, you sign something, and now you want to withdraw it, but you're building a parliamentary set for all of this, we think it's pretty amazing. I myself am speaking to this debate as a man who rejects all the wild drivings of genderideology and rejects all forms of migration against Fidesz, so also the residency bond business, the possibility of educating those protected and others about the CSOK, which this government has also provided, but we could talk about many more issues. But what our fellow Members of the Fideszes-KDNP have not talked about is precisely the brutal wave of relationships and domestic violence that has been escalating steadily in recent years and has increased dramatically in recent weeks. It is quite simply a betrayal that, hiding behind an ideological debate, the Government of Hungary simply ignores a brutal social phenomenon that has not been a model or pattern in recent decades. Together, it would be our duty as dogs, our collective responsibility to deal with this amazing wave of problems, because it will cost our countrymen their lives. Instead of you, I am ashamed that we are not talking at the meeting of the Hungarian Parliament about how to protect further sacrifices, because every day, every week, there will be more and more people talking about what they imagine in an international document that does not change the fact that Hungarians are constantly losing weight and dwindling within the Carpathian Basin, and that does not change the amazing trend that dozens or even hundreds of our countrymen die without this government moving their ears. Once again, I'm ashamed of this for you. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-04-272	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa, to whom I would like to point out that, outside the time frame of the KDNP, he may speak further as rapporteur, and then I will draw time from the national time frame.
u2020-05-04-273	Thank you very much. Mr President, Yes, it's funny when Ferenc Gyurcsány, who talked about old wives, and that every man deserves to replace his old wife, his wingman... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I am not...]] That's what your president said! That's what your president said! How do you look in the eyes of women, how do you look in the eyes of your constituents when you praise a party president here every day in Parliament who treats Hungarian women like this and sends this message to Hungarian women? His ally, the MSZP, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, took a dump on the Fidesz voters [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: You know it's not true!]] That's how he talked about the Fidesz voting women. The portal linked to you, the MSZP, spoke in an invaluable tone about the appointment of Deputy State Secretary Zsófia Rácz, making sexual references. This is your woman's policy. Congresswoman Agnes Vadai! On DK's Facebook page you can read much dirtier comments about the appointment of Deputy State Secretary Zsófia Rácz, humiliated in his female capacity. Your trolls, your commentators, your sympathizers of these... [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: There is no such thing on my side!]] They're here! I'm not gonna subpoena him because he's poisoning the air here, you did this. You speak, who is the party partner of the text-hussar Zsolt Gréczy. What are you talking about about protecting against women? On what basis do you speak of this when you have supported or supported a man? On what grounds, Congresswoman? [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I didn't stand up for Zsolt Borkai!]] There's a lot of questions here. He couldn't answer the old wives either. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Speak of Croatian prostitutes, Congressman.]] My fellow Jobbik Members, you have previously rejected the Istanbul Convention, which was the official party position of Jobbik here in Parliament on several occasions, and said in a press release that you do not support the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. No wonder about this turn of events, we are used to playing Ferenc Gyurcsány's sheet music, but that was Jobbik's position earlier. [[20.00]] I would like to record here in front of Parliament that this was your position earlier. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We said we wouldn't participate!]] They refused to ratify. Thank you. Bence Tordai and Andrea Varga-Damm admitted that the Hungarian rules of criminal law are basically strict. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: No practice!]] It's strict because we've tightened it up. If it were up to you, he wouldn't be so strict. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Prevention!]] You didn't support them. We are partners in making further restrictions, further steps in the area of victim support and prevention, because this is what is important for us, not the promotion of the political pamphlet that is expected of you in the ideological part of the Istanbul Convention, but the actual help. What you have mentioned, in various countries, terrible practices to humiliate or harm women are still protected, even without the Istanbul Convention, without protection. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] And the Hungarian women living here in Hungary also have protection, even without the Istanbul Convention. I'm asking you to remember that they still have the right to be protected. Do not accuse us of false accusations that are simply not true. We've got the right protection, and one victim is a lot. We have to do everything we can to make this number zero. But it doesn't lead to this through the Istanbul Convention, because it's a gender document loaded with ideologies. And we have taken countless steps in recent years to improve the situation of women in the labour market, to coordinate childbearing and work, and you have taxed the family allowance and reduced it to two years. and we introduced the fact that children's care is also available in addition to work. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] With regard to simplifying or facilitating adoption, I agree with the Member, this is an important issue, although it does not belong entirely here, but this is still an important issue. Congressman Bence of Torda spoke of the international outlook, saying something about the ratification of the Convention in countries more normal than us. Well, it was signed by 11 Member States of the Council of Europe but not ratified by 11 Member States, 7 of which are EU Member States: Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, the United Kingdom, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Lithuania, Hungary, Moldova, Armenia, Slovakia and Ukraine. I'm sure you remember that three months ago, the Slovak Parliament made a decision by a large majority to withdraw even the signature, precisely because of the pitifully denied genderideologies of Bence of Torda. The Slovak Parliament, which was then led by a socialist majority, had its signature withdrawn from the Istanbul Convention, Congresswoman. The Bulgarian Constitutional Court decided in July 2018 that the convention is contrary to the Bulgarian Constitution because it makes the difference between the two biological sexes relative. Of course, you are not interested in these, and you want to slip through them, but this is how the gender perspective gets into Hungary. In Latvia, which has signed as the last of the EU Member States, there is absolutely no parliamentary majority support for ratification and is therefore not on the agenda. The same is the case with Lithuania, where, due to opposition to genderideology and the same-sex marriages, ratification is not on the agenda and there is no parliamentary majority. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] The ratification process also stopped in the Czech Republic, and the Czech President strongly rejected ratification. The ratification was not submitted in the United Kingdom, nor is it on the agenda, nor is it included in the government's legislative programme. So there are a lot of EU examples. The other countries see the dangers of this, so they have not ratified it, they see that this convention is ideologically loaded, and they are also trying to succeed in many places, such as Hungary, in their own powers, to make rules that can protect children who have been abused, which can act effectively against violence against women. And yes, one sacrifice is a lot, so we have to do more together, but you have also acknowledged that the laws are strict; the Istanbul Convention would now be a step backwards to current laws and current laws. Hungarian women would be less protected if we accepted this, and this would replace the current Hungarian legal order. I ask you not to deceive voters, not to say things that are not true, not to spread false news about this, but to admit that you are wrong and to support our political statement. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-05-04-274	Thank you, Congressman. I now give the floor to Mrs. Potocska, Anita Kőrösi, from Jobbik.
u2020-05-04-275	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It's amazing what a woman can handle. A woman who's a mother, a mother who loves you. With this quote from Mór Jókai, I wished for a happy Mother's Day yesterday. And not even a few hours have passed, then I can see that on the columns of the Hungarian Nation there was an ordenar article, which is at least outrageous, distressing, humiliating, and affects all women while breaking their hearts. It's you! This pro-government media regularly prints articles that hurt women spiritually. Believe me, reading these lines is indeed a spiritual terror. In the last few days, when Speaker László Kövér said that the person whose personal number begins with a number two looks at them with pity. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: That's not what he said! Don't lie to me. That's not what he said!]] It's outrageous! That's what he said, whose personal number starts with a two. [[Intercoms.]] And the point is what he was thinking behind it. [[Intercoms from the ruling parties.]] Because over the past few years, you've proven more than once what you think of women. And they allow that, and they suggest to women that it's better for you to shut up, so you don't open your mouth, you don't engage in political battles, because that's what's gonna result in them getting the troll army on them, so they'll get hurt later. With all due respect, I'm asking you to stop this. Because these campaigns that you have just launched against women's representatives will result in us becoming even stronger. Look, me and my fellow female opposition Members stand up for women, stand up for each other, and we will not let you talk about us like this without any consequences. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-276	Thank you, Congresswoman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll ask if anyone wants to comment. [[For signal:]] Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm came forward, she has half a minute. You have the floor.
u2020-05-04-277	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to take half a minute because as a lawyer, I'd like to say one more thought. Everyone who is a lawyer knows that under international law any convention can be ratified with reservations. This means that it can be said at any time that it is not incorporated or accepted in the legal system of that country. That is why this political declaration is false and false, because you know exactly that, without the provisions that you do not like, you could have ratified this agreement, and you should not have made it part of such a political pamphlet. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-278	Thank you, Congresswoman. I'm asking if anyone else would like to comment. [[There's no candidate.]] I don't see a candidate. So I will close the consolidated debate and ask the authors that someone would like to comment. [[For signal:]] Congressman Lőrinc Nacsa would like to, so you have the floor, Congressman, in an eight-minute time frame.
u2020-05-04-279	Thank you very much. I promise I won't take all eight minutes. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] I forgot to thank Andrea Varga-Damm for calling me a good husband. (Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea interrupts.) I prefer to take this from my wife many times, but since I'm probably not going to see her again today, I'll settle for this, thank you very much. [[Defiance in the ranks of the opposition.]] In order for you to deny the dangers of the gender agreement, it tells us that there is a sharp ideological difference between us. It is against the law against the Istanbul Convention, the Hungarian Basic Law. [[Intercoms from the opposition.]] It says that men and women, as two created sexes, consider the marriage model and family model based on the relationship between men and women to be in force in the Hungarian Fundamental Law. I believe that you disagree, and I believe that Bence Tordai, who, of course, tried to deny the dangers of gender perception, tried to deny the dangers of a destructive gender view for future generations... I am calm as long as Bence Tordai doesn't get close to government, that he doesn't introduce it in Hungary and our children. [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] [[Bence of Turdai interrupts.]] You're not gonna have to go to kindergarten and school based on gender perspective. I am calm until then, because, Congressman, this is a destructive approach, but you deny it, because you are expected to stand by it. It's not my fault. (Bence of Turdai interrupts.) Once again, there has been a misunderstanding because you have not read the proposal again; it defines gender as a socially established role. They're not men and women that are equal, but they're not the same. The congressman doesn't understand. It defines it as a socially established role. We don't think it's the social role of no, but there's a man and there's a woman who's equal, and we're working on it as equals. [[20.10]] Of course you do. That's what we think, that's what's in our basic political creed. Of course we do. Don't try to deny it to us. It is outrageous that Bernadett Wind accuses us of all kinds of lies and makes statements here in Parliament that we think women are inferior. That's not what we're thinking, Congresswoman. We think women should have all the respect, but they don't need to be washed away. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Apologize!]] gender boundaries [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: On Mother's Day is the Hungarian National article?]] And there's no need to blur the boundaries. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: Hungarian Nation!]] , there is no need to blur boundaries or introduce sixty socially created genders. I believe that this is important to you, but we do not want to have a destructive gender perspective in Hungary, nor do we want to have hundreds of thousands of migrants brought into Europe under the auspices of such a convention to be easily facilitated. We don't want these. We have said and therefore I ask you not to twist our words, and this is included in our political declaration that we agree with the core values of the Convention, that we have seen values in it. We have already transposed these into Hungarian law, so it would not mean anything additional to the Hungarian legal system if we ratified the Istanbul Convention, it would only lead to dangers and destruction because of these ideological parts, and the rest of it is already part of the Hungarian legal order, so they are insured. Instead of promoting such gender agreements here in Parliament, let us work together to ensure that where there is still room for improvement in the current Hungarian legal order to protect women or children, we fill those possible gaps. The Istanbul Convention is not suitable for this because it raises much weaker terms and because it is full of ideologically charged elements [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I'll hold you to that.]] which will then become binding. This is precisely the debate that was played in the UN Pact on Migration. They said that we would just accept it, just ratify it, just join in, and then it wouldn't be binding, but the next day they referred to it in various documents, they tried to force it on us all the time. It was the same in the UN Pact on Migration. We don't want that. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Cancel the signature!]] This is also a sovereignty issue and an ideological issue. Don't make us look like people who haven't done anything in recent years to protect abused women and children or abused people, because we've done a lot! You have just acknowledged this in this debate. They used this debate only to abuse us instead of protecting Hungarian people, Hungarian women and children. That's what you used it for! You have used the case of abused Hungarian women for a political gain. You here in Parliament tonight have used the case of abused Hungarian women to abuse us. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Why did you perform it if it wasn't political profit?]] That's all they did! They did not speak out for them, but they reproached us. [[Rumors and interruptions from Jobbik and DK.]] For the past ten years, we've been doing it all the time, and we've been doing it all the time. [[Moraj from the opposition parties.]] Unfortunately, you didn't support this... [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]]
u2020-05-04-280	Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, let Lőrinc Nacsa finish his speech. Thank you.
u2020-05-04-281	Thank you, Mr. President. In recent years, you could have done something for the Hungarian women and children, and you could have done nothing for the abused. Then they remained silent, then they didn't press the button, then they were rejected, and Wind Bernadett rejected them, even though he now pretends to be the patron saint of abused women. It should have been voted when he had the opportunity, and when he could really stand up for abused women. Unfortunately, they didn't do that, so they can still count on us. [[Dr. Wind Bernadett: I'm sorry, but it's pathetic.]] We're doing everything we can to protect them, we're doing everything we can to help victims, we're doing everything we can to prevent them, we're doing everything we can to tighten up the penalties. I am asking you not to push the gender agreement, but to make these decisions in the future, if not so far, to be partners. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-05-04-282	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Decisions shall be taken on the 5 May meeting. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agendas. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Ildikó Bangóné Borbély was the first person to apply for the post-meeting speech:. What makes a man a man? It's an address. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-05-04-283	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm projecting it, not because László Fat thinks that's what I am or not. Allow me to quote Laszlo Fat. Just because someone's personal number starts with a 1 or a 2 doesn't necessarily mean that they're a woman or a man in a moral and mental sense. But in a moral sense, does a woman have to show an approach to women's disciplines to make it look like one? László Fat has repeatedly said that a woman is only a woman if she fulfills the vocation for which she was born, came into this world to bear a child. There's only one thing I'd like to discuss. Today there are hundreds of thousands of people living in Hungary who cannot achieve this. That someone can't have a child in their family, that's why 50 percent of men and 50 percent of women are to blame; I add, I put this word in a quotation mark, because it's usually caused by a disease that can't give birth to a child. László Fat Every time he utters these words, hundreds of thousands or I can say that he offends millions of people: men and women. There are more of us in Parliament who have gone through this struggle. Some of us did, some of us didn't, but it wasn't his fault. There are more of us within the walls of Parliament who would have done anything in their lives, I would have added anything, just to make this happen. I'm telling you, some people did it, some people didn't. You have no right to classify people who have failed to give their family a child in their lifetime as Fat László. You have no right! I also call on László Fat to stop this because of you, and because of the people who went through this. I think that just because someone didn't make it doesn't mean they're just as valuable as all the others. Some mothers raise adopted children, but they are mothers, and they only adopted me. There are mothers and families, fathers who are not adopted, they are foster parents, but they are mothers and fathers, even though they are not raising and loving their biological children at home. A man does not become a man by saying such things; he certainly does not, in my eyes. I am asking László Fat to stop this, and precisely because we feel very deeply, people who have been through this struggle. And that's all I have to say to László Fat is that God saves people from going through this. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-05-04-284	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a speech after the next agenda:. How much longer? It's an address. You have the floor.
u2020-05-04-285	Mr President, Dear House, I myself consider that there are some issues of national strategy that we should not go along with and require solutions from all of Parliament. The subject of domestic and inter-relationship violence that we have raised before us is typically like this, where there should not be any influence on party positions and on the issue of common solutions. In the same way, I consider the deepest problem to be the Hungarian demographic deep flight, and I also believe that we should develop solutions with common solutions, offering benefits for young Hungarians, which help children to have children in a cross-border way, family life in Hungary. That is why I stand stunned in front of Fidesz-KDNP's very simple and distorting manifestations of reality, according to which, in recent days and weeks, for example, Parliamentary Secretary Katalin Novák has found that she believes that Hungary has improved with regard to all demographic indicators. The fact is that we have examined them one by one, and although there is no Fidesz, Minister of KDNP or Secretary of State sitting here to protect the indefensible and the net statistical lies, I am going to tell the record and the record of history what I would like to do on this issue, because it should be there. [[20.20]] And Katalin Novak wasn't the only one, for the sake of integrity. András Bencsik did the hardest overrun in the editorial of the Hungarian Democrat, where he noted that we had not yet won, that the goal had not yet been achieved, and that would require a fertility rate of at least 2.1. I would like to tell the author that in the last 50-60 years, this has not been possible in Hungary, and in the European countries too very few. But we must say that these people are simply living in a false reality, because Mr Bencsik continues with the following: ten years ago, however, we Hungarians chose healing, and Hungarians fought themselves up among the growing nations. So András Bencsik is already showing growth where there is a population loss of 30-40 000 per year as our most serious social problem, and on the other hand, the Government of Hungary has not been able to provide any counter-opinion, because in a chemically pure neoliberal way it seeks to benefit from family tax incentives from the upper middle class, hoping that these benefits will be absorbed by all other social groups. But this model has failed everywhere in the world. Let us look at the statement by the secretary of state that all demographic indicators have moved in the right direction in recent years. It refers to an increase in the number of marriages to be welcomed, which is not, by the way, a demographic indicator, and it has typically increased in order to achieve the family support benefits provided by the government at all, to have access to them, but I do not feel that more children were born in Hungary. However, if we compare only the last two total years and then meet the secretary of state with reality, we find that in 2018, 89,807 children were born in Hungary, while in 2019 the number of children born decreased by 89,200, i.e. 0.7 percent during the last measured periods. It is quite amazing that she and her team found a single month in return, because, if we compare Decembers with 2018 and 19, there was a month where there is indeed a serious increase. In December 2019, 8 percent more children were born than a year ago; however, we find several months where, unfortunately, fewer. For example, if you look at June and not December, you can find a 5.8 percent decrease. If we look at the overall number of children born, we see that unfortunately fewer people were born than in the past period, and the fertility rate has not moved forward either, which is perhaps the biggest problem. How Fidesz-KDNP's lie factory and reality-distorting factory managed to bring out Hungary's entry into the ranks of growing nations, I can't answer that, and I don't want to. But what we can see is that what Katalin Novák said was a decade-old improvement, in fact, is a tragic deterioration, since it is about 7,000 children less than it was a decade ago. It would not be fair to blame this government alone, because as the number of mothers and women of childbearing age continues to decline, this problem is in the phase of Hungarianism, which has been around my age for about 40 years. Therefore, because of our historical responsibility, the lie, the lie factory and its processes described above must not be upheld. It is necessary to have a diagnosis that is consistent with an autopsy, and to develop common solutions that all future governments, regardless of colour, will follow to stop the fall in Hungary; first, slow down, and then once, perhaps 50 or 100 years later, the Hungarians really will enter the stage of growth. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-04-286	Thank you, Congressman. Speaking after the next agenda, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Prime Minister of the Group, asked for the address of our city Pécs 1.
u2020-05-04-287	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, It is extremely important, especially in such a difficult, plagued situation, to thank everyone who is working to protect the safety of Hungarian people and to protect the health of Hungarian people. This has already been discussed today at today's plenary, as it is the day of the firefighters' Day, so I would like to thank the firefighters again for their sacrifice, which they may do in order to protect the safety of the Hungarian people, even at the risk of their lives. At the same time, it is very important to give honor to firefighters, people who work every day at the risk of their lives. This includes the establishment of a system of adequate pay, the provision of adequate working conditions, and the proper appreciation of their superiors. Unfortunately, this is not happening. We know that in the last ten years, the government has not taken steps in the right direction to appreciate firefighters and workers in disaster management, but, on the contrary, has forgotten about them. Expectations have grown, but the kind of appreciation I've already told you about doesn't want to be realized. It's obviously showing up in the numbers we can see. The board is constantly understaffed, and unfortunately the statistics show that a lot of people think about leaving the field because of compulsiveness. According to statistics produced in the middle of last year, three quarters of the firefighters interviewed by the representative have already thought about leaving the field, and here we are talking about people who have chosen this career with a sense of professionalism. Obviously, they think of such compulsive steps as a coercion. The main reasons were humiliatingly low wages, withdrawal of early retirement, professional dilettantism of senior managers and humiliating treatment, which was also reported by many. I think that every time the government that is able to decide and able to take action must be alerted to the need to immediately listen to these problems and to take immediate action to address these problems with the involvement of professional organisations. Turning to my place of residence, the city of Pécs, I would like to prove the gravity of this situation here, on the basis of a specific and very sad example. The Pécs Central Fire Department, the firehouse building, has been in terrible condition for a very long time. It has been known since the late nineties that this building is in extremely bad condition, and in fact, this barracks was considered to be extremely dangerous in 2009. In 2009, a news report reported that the structure was considered dangerous as early as the late 1990s and that it was life-threatening in 2006. That's when the local government decided to build a new firehouse. Until 2011, no substantive steps were taken, and Dr. György Bakondi, as Head of the National Directorate for Disaster Protection, outlined the plans for the solution and promised a rapid action. In his capacity as Lieutenant General of Firefighters, according to contemporary press reports, he joked about the fact that there was no time and that this decision could not be delayed, because the barracks building would still find itself collapsing. That was 2009. The plans were promised by 2011 and the completion of the construction project by 2012. Well, I can tell you, Honourable Parliament, that in Pécs the new firehouse is still not standing, even though it is 2020. It is quite clear, and I think that we cannot argue with each other that all people, all workers, are entitled to fair conditions, but it is absolutely important that this be achieved in the case of those performing a profession, such as firefighters, who work in extremely dangerous conditions. I find it quite astonishing and irresponsible to think that a problem, which has been known and expressed since the late nineties, recorded in the minutes, could not be resolved by 2020 either. I myself, who had been a member of the local government of Pécs for a long time, looked into the issue every year, and there was always some sort of saying reason why these investments would not be made, why the new firehouse would not be built. The most recent statements refer to the target date 2022, but I think that, after the delay in the past long and long years, this cannot be given credit in any way. Therefore, again, I thank the firefighters for their sacrifice, their endurance, their patience, for taking on this task, even under such difficult circumstances, and for their hard work. At the same time, I call upon the Government of Hungary, I call upon the decision-makers to express their appreciation not only in words but also in actions and in concrete decisions, to establish a system with the stakeholders, at the end of which the right pay can be achieved, to create the right working conditions, to provide a real career model, and to ensure that the right professionalism prevails in the life of the fire department and in the decisions of the fire department. Thank you very much.
u2020-05-04-288	Thank you, Congressman. On the next agenda, MEP László Hajdu, on behalf of DK, asked to speak: he is 40 years old with the title of the introductory section of the M3 highway. You have the floor, Congressman. [[20.30]]
u2020-05-04-289	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, The M3 is a built environment, interference with the environment, and it is rare that it is possible to speak here in Parliament in addition to the anniversary, and I am doing an experiment. It was handed over 40 years ago from the whole of North Hungary, but it can be said that from Transcarpathia to Moscow or from Prague to Berlin, the only way to Budapest is by international traffic and, of course, transport in Hungary. I am the parliamentary representative of this district, and I live in my constituency with all its beauty and all its curses. One of the problems, I think, was that after about 70 years of preparation in 1910, this was already a trail, but there were several alternative trails. After all, this construction was completed in 1980, and it moved together with the subterranean, who knew the subterranean, the Millennium subway, by building it, since it was taken to the Mexican road. And he moved together with the construction of the new Palota residential estate, the construction of the Rákospalota residential settlements, and this accelerated it, that, after all, any representative could stand up and say the same problem in almost every direction from the exits in Budapest. I use the 40-year anniversary to tell you what an introductory phase means, a main road that works as a motorway, but there is also a level crossing, the rare case is that it has a level crossing, a lamp intersection, what it means in noise and pollution. I have to say that we can see all the pollution in the exhaust gas there, and now, when the fight against the epidemic is taking place and the lung is attacking in the first place, we also fear that it is one of the most heavily contaminated roads in Budapest's noise map and air pollution map for seven kilometres on both sides of the road in a range of about 800-800 metres. A road that counts about 30,000 cars per hour on the way and on the road, which means that 24 hours at a time, this district is in constant heat, where this trail has been designated. A historic city, a county-righted town of Rákospalota, which was then cut in half. It's part of the curse. There is also a blessing in it, that in eight minutes we can be in the center of the city right now in the plague. For example, there is no traffic in the M3 epidemic, and otherwise there are usually traffic jams at the border of Budapest every morning and traffic jams every morning when they go home. This road, I think, also raises a question of how the authorities measure the speed, but they do not measure what pollution is, or do not test the cars that pollute, because from the trucks to the freight traffic, public transport buses and tourist buses are also here, and of course they are also a protocol route, since the fast-track M0 is here to take their protocol guests to the country. So they even close it, and then it works as a tour under gardens, because there is a traffic diversion and we can see it between family houses. What makes me think that I do have to raise my voice is that after 30 years, in 2010, this area was able to receive only one kilometer of it, which is still not built. How long Rakospalota smokes, and in this coronal virus world, who cares about this other than us, is, I think, very few people can be in this town. Thank you so much for listening, that's all I wanted to say.
u2020-05-04-290	Thank you, Congressman. Mr Zoltán Varga, on behalf of DK, asked to speak after the next agenda: "The government is afraid that the masses of rurals will turn into disguises." You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-05-04-291	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, While the government's new topik is now going to create as many jobs as the virus is destroying, hundreds of thousands of Hungarians have lost their jobs in recent months. Because of this, there are long lines in front of the steering windows, there is a lack of electronic administration, and no one usually answers the given phone numbers. Many, who have managed to register in a completely shocking way, complain that despite the fact that they have registered themselves, they do not receive feedback, let alone a job offer, so that unemployment benefit will probably slip for them. Otherwise, we know that a number of businesses were created only at the time because the condition of employment was in many cases the ability to account. These are typically family micro- and small businesses that almost immediately sense the problem, the crisis. Typically, the only source of income for these types of forced undertakings is when the customer, in fact, is billed to the employer, which is in fact nothing more than wages, and it is the owners and managers of such undertakings who are obliged to pay themselves, otherwise, the burden of wages. However, they are now not only without order, work or monthly income, but in this case and most of the cases, they are not even eligible for unemployment benefits. Many are also aware of the fact that such companies have not been able to order, work and income for months, but rent should still be paid to the rented establishment or business premises. I said they should pay, but they don't know, because they don't have any income. The young people and families living in the apartment, who are not working, are unable to pay the rent today, and although the owner cannot, in principle, cancel the rent, we know very well that people in difficulty who live in the apartments are fleeing from this humiliating situation and are trying to find some kind of forced solution if nothing else. All this, of course, is becoming more hopeless. And in such a situation, there is little chance that you can shop at the baker's or the market, and anyone who is left without work or aid can say that the Prime Minister has promised him in Parliament in the last few days that, in three months' time, they will provide everyone with this job, and we know very well that this is not the case, and it is feared that these people will tell the seller, the seller, that they will pay after three months, if the Prime Minister has given them this opportunity to work, they will not get this chance. In recent years, it has become apparent that the Prime Minister does not really like to go to the countryside except for his estate on the upstairs and the stadium at the end of his garden. Maybe that's why he doesn't like Miklós Radnóti either, because unlike the poet, he sees this landscape as a map on the window of government luxury aircraft. You can't see, you can't feel, you can't face the poverty of the countryside, you can't face the fact that the masses of people would be happy to work, but the number of unemployed people for whom work has become a fantasy, unattainable opportunity every day. That the work-based society so often said by the Prime Minister, the ever deeper social crisis surrounding us, mass unemployment and the fall of the middle class, in particular in rural areas, is nothing more than the vision of a politician living in an ivory tower who has seen better days, a politician who has lost all his connections with reality. And more and more people pick up their heads hearing cynical sentences that without work, the government doesn't give money, that they're not interested in aid, that anyone who loses their job should immediately find another one for themselves. And more and more people say that it's easy to share the sense of a man who, although he has posted on Parliament's website, is a worthless man and let's face it, is in itself a ridiculous and profoundly cynical statement, but his dear son-in-law, dear father, dear family, smart gasman and oligarchs have become many billionaires all around him in the last ten years. Dear House, We now see very well that the crisis is not selective. In addition to the government courtship, it strikes opposition voters to the same extent as the members of the ruling party. Families have been and are currently in an unsolvable situation every day, and it is the beginning of snow, utility bills and yellow checks should be paid, but there is no job, no government support, and the family register is empty. It's empty in the Congo. In this case, sooner or later, I'm afraid there will be little government deception, but there will be little blind faith. Thank you very much. [[20.40]]
u2020-05-04-292	Thank you, Congressman. Member Andrea Varga-Damm came forward to speak after the next agenda:, Just because you are disparaging women, you will not yet be called men. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-05-04-293	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Last week, I learned from our Speaker that, along with my female colleagues, we are pathetic because our personal number starts with two. I was shocked. Although the pro-government benches and the pro-government media have been tainted against women and women representatives over the last few years, I believe they have crossed the line that will stop them from listening. Then the weekend did not go by without reproach, and the founder of poor Sándor Pethő, who had seen the better days of the past, must have turned to his grave on Mother's Day, on Sunday, 3 May, an extremely harsh article was published, the essence of which was to disrespect the opposition representatives of Parliament in an unspeakable manner. If you'll allow me, I quote from this scripture: . Woman is unimaginable for a more hideous fate. Thus, in the past, more freer ages, the wise have carefully blocked the steps of public power from the ravaged, planetary souls. Today, planetary souls are the opposition's congresswoman. However, unlimited democracy also brings its own burden to our lives, and today we are not merely suffering the moral and intellect rebellion of the masses, but, in the spirit of total horror of insanity, we are witnessing the daily abuse of femininity, by the personas of their irrational hatred. It's enough for you to look at the infernal blood slides in domestic public life. This means I will translate it into Hungarian, that we have no business in the House of the country. In the face of the 2004 anti-Hungarian Gyurcsányist campaign, we see the red kofa recorded in the great book of shame, where he conducts a folk-fronted earth smearing in public television, where he calls rats better than him. There is a young woman, who is trained abroad, once well-behaved by her inner exile, who is now disfigured into a school example in Lombroso, an embodiment of spiritual depravity, un bottomless anti-Hungarian evil, who doesn't understand, doesn't even know how deep she kicks when she shouts insane madness into a pick-up mic held in the right hand of a rubber glove, and with her gloveless left hand she is in despair in the Hungarian Parliament, where once educated, choiceful, loving statesmen discussed the affairs of the country and the nation. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now, please, that's what we are, opposition congresswoman. Of course, I know which writing is about my fellow Members, and I feel that I am very sorry that I am not among them when they are trying to desecrate my fellow Members in their femininity, motherhood and representation with such outrageous texts. And it is also written in this document that, in the past, men in the walls of this House have spoken highly of the affairs of the people. Yes, when, for example, György Marosán told Margit Slachta when he spoke against nationalization of church schools to go back to the nunnery, Opelia! Now, that was the big, man-to-man-discussed case. I think, by the way, that those who speak of women in this way and describe them in this way have a serious personality disorder. These people aren't men. These people are men with personality disorder, mission-conscious, but not mission-oriented creatures. We can insult you, too. I could tell you what I think about these people, but I'm not sinking to their level. They think that if they abuse women, they're gonna be cooler men, they're gonna be more like men. No! A real man never hurts a woman, even if a woman is inappropriate. Because the man, the real man, always overcomes the petty talents of the moment, because he always does his job in the future, always in the interests of the nation, for the sake of the cause of the country, for the sake of the common good. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-05-04-294	Thank you, Congresswoman. Mr Gergely Farkas asked to speak after the next and final agenda:, Let us also talk about those who are waiting for the Government's help in vain. It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[20.50]]
u2020-05-04-295	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Like the title, I would like to talk to you about people who have been in trouble because of the situation with the coronal virus, but have not received any help from the government. A lot of people from my constituency approached me, but obviously not only in my constituency, but in every part of the country there are tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands of people in trouble. We know that 34 percent of the Hungarian population has no savings, and one third of them have less than 100 thousand forints, which is not enough for anything, so an unexpected situation caused by the coronal virus did not by accident cause a lot of people, many families, difficult situations. Instead of the sound of government propaganda texts in communication, what we can see in reality is that a lot of people are left alone, even though one of the most pronounced government communication panels is saying that no Hungarian is alone, in reality this is different. I would like to present this through specific life situations, listing them and drawing the attention of the government to these people, who are not alone, but their case can be typified, which shows that there are a lot of people in similar situations. A typical problem arises from the fact that very many people who have just been laid off did not have two years of employment, so they did not receive severance benefits, and the unemployment benefit they receive is one of the lowest and short periods, a fraction of the people's previous salaries in Europe. So it's no wonder they're in a difficult situation. András, who had not been able to save money from his salary before, and because he had only worked a year ago in a plastic plant where layoffs were made, did not receive a severance pay after he was fired. As a result, he was left without money or help with his family, and unemployment benefits are impossible to come out of. Another important problem, as we know very well, is that hospitality is one of the most seriously affected sectors that has been hit by the crisis and, to say the least, may not be exaggeration, thousands, tens of thousands of people who have worked here. Another concrete example is Andi, who worked in hospitality and was sent from his job closed because of the epidemic to unpaid leave, thus remaining unpaid for an unforeseen period of time. Balázs worked as a chef, but he hasn't had a job since the restaurants were closed, he should have a large family, but it's impossible from unemployment benefits, he doesn't have any other work or experience, and re-training would be unnecessary for him, because he wants to work as a cook again after the epidemic. Satisfying the basic needs and paying the bills has consumed all their money, and they are forced to live in uncertainty from day to day. The non-execution of executions also causes a lot of problems in tens of thousands, including the woman who told me about her life situation. He raises two children, worked in a boutique that closed, and because of the execution, his salary is reduced by 50 percent, and now he has no income. Thus, everyday meals are also a problem for them. Another specific case arises not only from this particular case, but also from a number of other young people who have also lost most of the student work. This was also the case for a young person who had lost his income so far, because he worked as a student in a movie theater in addition to his university studies, but now these opportunities have ceased. Due to his student status, he can't claim unemployment benefits, so he can't pay for his housing. He moved home, but his parents are retired, so they can't support him in the long run, but he doesn't want to be in debt. In my constituency, a winged cutting plant was inaugurated at Deep Quarter with a big cut-off, from which people were sent because of cuts, or their working hours were reduced, as well as their salaries, in proportion. Maybe they'll reboot in September, but that's not for sure either, so many of the people who worked there said they were in a difficult situation, and they didn't get any help. There are several sectors that have been left out of the Katás discount, even though they are also affected by the crisis, which is supported by the following story. Stores of a commercial or other nature, where income has been reduced to a fraction, are not compensated, even though they do not receive any assistance from the state, at most if they had credit, they do not have to pay, but many did not have credit, so it is absolutely correct that they do not receive any help. So they got into trouble, too. Other entrepreneurs are also in trouble, and they are not able to use government wage replacement measures because the conditions were not met. One concrete example: Joseph had a small bakery shop, but there was a decrease in turnover, and because of the shorter opening hours, he transferred the employees for less time, and thus he lost the opportunity to support him, since only those who did not take back his workers would get it. So, for example, he fell away from the aid, even though his revenue had fallen. Unfortunately, my time has given me only so much opportunity to present a life situation, even though there are many, unfortunately, more. I did it because I trust that if we at least bring these people's problems before the House, then the government will see that there are indeed tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people left out of assistance and will take the necessary steps to help them as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea applauds.]]
u2020-05-04-296	Thank you, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I thank you all for your work. Parliament will resume its session at 9 a.m. Meeting day's closed.
