u2020-10-12-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Dear Parliament, The 6th day of the autumn session of the Parliament is hereby opened. I would like to inform you that, in the chair of this meeting, I will be assisted by Victor Vinnai and Csaba Gyüre, who will serve this officer for the first time here on the bench. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]] Welcome to everyone who monitors our work. Dear Parliament, Today we start our work with speeches before the agenda. After that, immediate questions and answers will take place over a two-hour period. Finally, we will conclude the session of the Parliament with speeches after the agenda. Dear Parliament, Sándor Burány applied for a pre-meeting speech, Mr.Sándor Burány, Dialogue Group on our current affairs. " with the title " Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-10-12-1	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Even the government's own experts claim that we are doing too few tests in Hungary. True, the government's experts admit the reason for this: they clearly stated that the main reason is that Hungary has reached the upper limit and the upper limit of its testing capacities. It simply seems that according to the government's experts, there is not enough of a test apparatus, or there are not enough staff from the staff operating the test apparatus; at the moment, we simply cannot test enough in terms of these capacities. We would also need tests, because if we look at the number of tests per thousand people or per capita in a European comparison, we will certainly be among the last ones. Perhaps this is also the reason why, at the same time, the infection rate within the tests carried out is significantly higher than the EU average. The worst numbers include Hungarian. We would have liked to have followed Austria in this area as much as we did in the spring. We remember that Prime Minister Viktor Orbán called Austria the most important test lab in Hungary, a controllable test lab. Well, Austrian practice is perfectly clear and clear, they know exactly how dangerous it is to keep the actual infected hidden, so they said that they will immediately increase the number of tests as the percentage of infected within the tests reaches or exceeds 5%. In Hungary, this number is around 10 percent, I only remember. Accordingly, with Austrian practice, they have been able to detect most of the cases, and it is clear who is infected. We don't have to shut down a whole country, because if we know who the infected people are, and they know who they are, because we shouldn't forget that there are people who can survive the disease in a fortunate way, but that doesn't mean they can pass it on to others, well, a word like a hundred: it's clear that people who are infected have to be separated from society, not the whole country, in the hope that the infected will stay home. In this way, you can avoid encounters and further infections. So we would like to follow the Austrian example here, too, but it seems that if the government cannot follow the practice of one country, it will immediately look for another country with good Hungarian figures compared to its indicators. And of course, if you look at how many people die tragically per thousand people as a result of the coronal virus epidemic, Hungarian data remains good. However, if you look at the number of infections per thousand people, you can see that you can't sit back with satisfaction, because all experts, even government experts, confirm that those who are infected with this disease are becoming more and more hidden in Hungary, but they have either mild symptoms that are similar to the flu or mister's forgiveness! No symptoms at all. At the same time, at the other end of this process, the government seems to be preparing for a brutal epidemic, if they look at how many respirators it has bought; we might believe that it has used the favourable price in some coupon days, and that it has bought such gigantic quantities, since we do not forget that there are less than 200 people currently on a ventilator, thank God, compared to this in warehouses, there are thousands and tens of thousands of respirators, but we did not buy them in coupons, but for the highest price in Europe. Looks like the more expensive something is, the more it's sold to the government. And finally, here's the latest data. István Ujhelyi, MEP, published a document that shows, among other things, that this is one of the most surprising things that the government expects Brussels to pay for the one-off HUF 500,000 of healthcare workers. I would like to finish by saying that, although we voted last week for a raise in the wages of doctors, we know precisely that a raise in the wages of health workers is usually necessary, because health care is a system, everyone from the doctor to the cleaning lady must be in place, paid enough to face the epidemic. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-12-2	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Balázs Orbán, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2020-10-12-3	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Given that we are discussing issues of national importance during the speeches before the agenda, allow me to say a few words on the outcome of yesterday's interim election before I answer the questions you asked. Yesterday an interim election was held in the 6th constituency of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county. On behalf of the Government of Hungary, I would like to thank everyone who has exercised their suffrage, has gone and voted, and I would also like to thank the electoral bodies for their extremely professional conduct. If you'll excuse me, a few words about the results. It is rare in politics when it is clear that sometimes we can witness the struggle of the good candidate and the bad candidate. Yesterday's lucky interim election was such an election, and the good one won, so allow me to congratulate Zsófia Koncz on that. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Z. Kárpát Dániel: The potato and the...]] The government stands ready to support its commitments to improve the quality of life and opportunities of people living in constituencies. Moreover, we believe that the greater and clearer victory and the election itself proved the ancient truth that politics is not about gaining power, as you oppositionists think, but about representing people, as Ferenc Koncz and his daughter once thought. [[11.10]] For one thing, I regret that the pro-government candidate graduated over 50 percent, because if he hadn't, he would have only reached 49,5 percent, then you would certainly have come up with the idea that we needed more cooperation. It is as if the word "conspiracy" masked the fact that you made an offer to Hungary, represented by a candidate who made hate-inspiring, inconvenient, anti-Semitic comments, and cheated his money to the locals who trusted him while conducting a campaign in which he produced false evidence and tried to discredit his opponents with them. Once again, it has been confirmed that with what you are accusing the ruling parties and us, you are able to commit those mischiefs in a row and in a row. And to all of this, your party, Congressman, as a loyal and good ally, has been enthusiastically assisting with social media posts. By the way, there's a saying that a liar can be caught before a lame dog. This weekend, one of their allies fell down, and Anna Donáth, the momentum, found out that although she denied it, she was the one who kept talking to Commissioner Věra Jourová about the Soros report that condemned Hungary. In addition, he said that you knew exactly that what we were accused of building a dictatorship this spring was simply not true. You knew that, and yet this lie was spread here both at home and abroad. I will then ask you, Congressman, how to take seriously what you say in this speech. As long as you're not apologizing, what guarantee do you have that what you're now saying as a criticism, you're not doing it out of power again, you're really trying to help me, as you claim? Unfortunately, there's no guarantee of that. With regard to testing and control of the coronal virus, our position remains unchanged: we cooperate with all experts, we test in accordance with international protocols. If these protocols change, we will also change the protocols according to the recommendations of the operational tribe and experts. He also mentioned the case of ventilators. This is another case, Congressman, which was before us in the spring. Then you accused us of not having enough ventilators, and now, if I understand your speech correctly, the problem is that there are too many ventilators. Once again, there is no rationality in your speech, there is no helpful intention in your speech, only to commit political debauchery on the grounds of power. We're in the middle of a coronal virus epidemic, and we think we need to join forces. We are very happy if you can be left-wing opposition partners in this, but if you can't, we just want to ask you not to prevent the country from doing its job. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-4	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP, spoke before the agenda also with a title on current affairs. You have the floor, Mr. Group Leader.
u2020-10-12-5	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, I would also like to start by thanking everyone who is working to preserve the health and safety of Hungarian people with respect to their work. We see that the situation is very difficult, and we also see that, unfortunately, the economic and social crisis is becoming increasingly difficult to protect people and professionals. I listened to Mr Orbán, Secretary of State Balázs here, with a little shock, and he practically made a speech before an independent agenda for an actual policy. I am trying to repeat these problems, so I would like to ask you about things like Sándor Burány. I very much hope that after the first impulse, perhaps the Secretary of State or Secretary of State Rétvári will be able to answer these questions in substance. The Prime Minister rightly says that the most important thing right now is the defence everyone agrees with, but the Prime Minister, the government, also adds that the country must work. And what we see is that, in relation to the success of defence, your experts are not only generally experts, but the experts you have appointed, who are invited, are criticising, and we are seeing developments every day in terms of the country's functionality, which unfortunately do not go in the right direction. In this regard, I am very confident that we can get a meaningful answer, we can explain the question that more and more people are asking when the government will correct, when it will see the numbers and when it will take meaningful action. We see that the strict restrictive measures that were taken last year have failed. We have also seen, in particular, that economic protection measures have been insufficient, that they have failed, and that the Prime Minister has acknowledged this, he said that there is an economic crisis, he said that there are budgetary problems. We do not see any correction, and we also perceive that we all see that, specifically, they are not still treating and acting as partners with advocacy organisations or professional organisations. Let me give you a few specific quotes, and I would very much like to say that I am not quoting an opposition representative, but from professionals who have been entrusted with work. Ferenc Jakab, head of the Coronary Virus Action Group at the Ministry of Innovation and Technology, said recently: while the government's decisions during the epidemiological measures were swift and good in March, we do not see this now, and the numbers are very gone and terribly worrying. And he also said recently: but if we run like this as fast trains, then our health capacities will be exhausted very quickly; we do not see that the epidemic is peaking at all, the numbers will rise. But I would also like to quote Gergely Röst, who is the head of the government's epidemiological and epidemiological task force, who said that the number of tests has not kept up with the increased number of cases in the last few weeks, the rate of positive tests has increased, which means that the number of cases reported daily can no longer provide guidance on the true trend of the epidemic. So, I repeat, Mr Secretary of State, this was not said by the opposition representative, but by the expert you commissioned. Beatrix of Russia, the task force leader of the ITM's infectological monitoring team, said that our case number does not increase because the epidemic would not progress, but because our testing capacity has reached its upper limit. Again, I quote an expert. I'd like to ask you the next question. Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said on Saturday evening in a video check-in that we have seen a rise in recent times and that they are forecasting a rise next week as well. My question is, since this is a rather shambles statement, I think that we are not moving forward, and everyone can see that the government is basing its assessment of the situation and its decision on exactly what it is based on, given the fact that I have just said: the guidance of the experts you have appointed. So how exactly does the government monitor the situation? And perhaps I would also like to have some kind of answer, which is not in an actual-party political response or speech, what can be done with the questions we see that there is a shortage of teachers, we can see that more and more information is coming from government offices, that there are very, very few employees due to many quarantines, contaminations, public services, systems problems in terms of water supply and public transport, and that they are immediately awaiting action. So you tell me that the country must work, while the most basic services are constantly unable to be operational with the necessary effective measures. We try to be constructive and vote for everything. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: I can't!]] Which is justified for the safety of the Hungarian people and for the protection of the economy, but can we expect you to correct and take some measures that your experts are missing? Are you going to help those who have lost their jobs, lost their livelihoods, and are not getting any benefits? Is there anything you can do about the brutal increase, the price of food gone? For example, can you expect to reduce VAT on basic foods? Can social workers expect to finally receive a meaningful appreciation, a meaningful financial appreciation? Can municipalities, which are the number one bastions of defence, expect austerity measures to be withdrawn and to grant all conditions to be effective? And we can expect you to finally make those gigantic investments. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] will they cancel the financing of these measures, such as the Budapest-Belgrád railway project, which is equivalent to the creation of 175 000 new jobs in two years? Thank you very much for your patience, Mr. President.
u2020-10-12-6	Thank you, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond to what has been said. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, I thank everyone who works in health care for being there these days and in the coming months to help everyone whose health is in some way at risk, especially in relation to the coronal virus epidemic. You have said, honourable Member, that you are always constructive here in Parliament when it comes to the Crown Virus. It's a bold thing to say on the part of any left-wing politician because you didn't support the Crown Virus Act here in Parliament. [[11.20]] When Parliament had the opportunity to decide on this at least in an accelerated procedure, you did not vote for it, neither your party nor any left-wing party. And when the law itself had to be passed so that the government could act quickly you say that the government should act quickly, the government should act at the moment, the government should act as the epidemiological data of the previous period, but when a law should have been created here in Parliament, it was not voted. Well, how is it that, on the one hand, it demands rapid, effective reactions from the government, and that the legislation enabling it is not supported in Parliament, but called for dictatorship instead? As it turned out, the left was well aware of this recent days from recordings, video footage showed that, of course, there was no full power, no dictatorship, but they sat on this wave and carried it all over the world. 'Cause that's what you were doing when you were supposed to help defend yourself here in Parliament, but you couldn't be counted on. So I'm asking you not to say that you're constructive. Constructivity would have been if you had discussed that bill here in substance and supported the government's opportunity to act. Honourable Congressman, Hungary is testing on the basis of WHO protocols. Testing is free of charge for anyone who shows symptoms of the virus or gets involved in contact research. If you look at all the countries in the world or the surrounding European countries, you see everywhere that the epidemic is happening. In Britain there is talk of doubling, the UK statistical office estimates that there are 224 thousand infected people in England after 116 thousand last week because thousands of infections have been left out of the British register. Slovakia is in a state of emergency. In Romania, a disaster alert was issued, and in Bucharest more than 5300 died in the coronal virus epidemic. The various local sources of expertise in Germany also say that the spread of the new type of coronal virus is accelerating towards uncontrollability. Belgium doubled in one week, the trend deteriorated, the number of people who died as a result of complications increased by 96 percent, the number of people infected by the day was 89 percent higher than the one week earlier. In France, they also talk about acceleration, unfortunately record high, 17 thousand infected daily numbers. In Ireland, the Special Health Committee has proposed further measures. There is a state of emergency in the Czech Republic. And even Spain, Italy and everything else can be said, where unfortunately records are made for the number of coronal virus infections. Almost every European country has a huge rise. So we can talk about a trend throughout Europe, not only in Hungary. If you look at the surrounding countries, you will see the Western European countries, you will see the same trend. We are obviously responding to this with increasing capacities; increasing capacities in testing and increasing capacity in hospital capacity. If you look at the number of tests on 1 September and see how many tests there were on 1 October, you can see quite a difference, as it was 1792 on 1 September, so the number of daily tests was in the order of a few thousand on the round of August-September, and if you look at the previous weeks now, you can see that you are being tested in the order of ten thousand. So against the 1 September 1792 on 1 October 11 972. You say that since we're in the second wave of the plague, we need more testing, and if you look at the numbers, that's exactly what they show. And if you look at the following days in October, you too, honourable Member, see tests in the order of tens of thousands. So we are also trying to increase capacity here, and, of course, in hospitals, where there are 10,000 beds, but if necessary, this number can be increased to 20 or 30 thousand beds. Thus, according to the WHO protocol, if you look at the number of infected people compared to all the tests carried out since the beginning of the epidemic, this is 4,56 percent, while the WHO says that at least ten tests should be available to one infected person. That's a lot better than that number. Which means the number and proportion of people who have died in Hungary, honourable Member: if you look at the data up to yesterday, you will see that, fortunately, Hungary can provide much better data than Austria, Turkey, Denmark, Germany. Half, thank God, in Hungary, the number of deaths, such as in Portugal, Switzerland or Luxembourg, a third as in Romania, Canada, a quarter as in Ireland, the Netherlands or France, six times as in Sweden or Italy. The Hungarian defence, thank God, is successful, but this opposition has not been involved in recent months. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-8	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. Dear Parliament, MEP Lajos Oláh, DK Group, applied for a pre-meeting speech: Hungary must work! It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-12-9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Parliament, Hungary must work, with this motto they started to deal with the second wave of the epidemic. Compared to this, we see that 30 kindergartens, half a dozen schools are closed for suspicion of coronavirus, 121 classes and 6 full schools have digital education, they had to switch to digital education, because you refused to test them, and you sent the children and teachers home instead. According to the Democratic Union of Teachers, it's not that there are only so many viruses in the country's schools, but you're willing to test them in so few places. These come out at random, as they say. In so many schools, there are parents who are willing to pay the 20,000 forints that a test costs today. You have done nothing to protect teachers, children and their parents. The solution to this would be to test a large quantity and free of charge. But let's keep going. Today, almost every country's leadership says, so do you, that the country should work and, if possible, that spring closure should be avoided. Do you know what countries have the smallest economic downturn? Five out of the eight most tested countries are where the smallest economic downturn is. Four of the six countries that tested the least, and among them are Hungary, honourable State Secretary. This means that these numbers cannot lie, and they show that testing does have to do with the state of the economy. Let me sum up for you to understand: where you are being tested mass and mostly for free, there is a country, education and the economy, where you are not being tested to an adequate degree, where the country, education and the economy are not working. You're referring to the WHO protocol, and you're watching the whole epidemic. You're lying to the country, Mr. Secretary. Don't look at the whole epidemic. In the last few days, the number of positive cases in the tests has been more than 10 per cent on a regular basis. Don't fool people because the WHO isn't talking about an average. He says that every day it would be good if the number of tests did not exceed 5 per cent, and the European Union added this number to 4. It's in Hungary when it's 14 percent. You don't test enough! You're lying to the country, Mr. Secretary of State. You're just talking about testing. Instead of testing, you will quarantine the country, and the consequence of not testing will be that schools should be closed, jobs should be closed, even though this could be solved. I don't understand why you're so afraid of a large amount of free testing. Dear Secretary of State, I can tell you that the Democratic Coalition has initiated a referendum. Don't wait for it, because you know perfectly well that if this happens, there will be an overwhelming majority of this referendum to be tested free of charge. We ask the government, with all due respect, to make testing as wide and free as possible. They don't argue with us when they say everything's okay. My fellow Member who spoke before me also said that your experts say, Mr Secretary of State, Honourable Government, that they are not testing enough and say that the testing capacity is not sufficient for this. Well, what did you guys do this summer? Now we have finally come to the point of putting on the mask, because before summer they refused to do so, setting a bad example for everyone, endangering people's lives with this bad example. At least now we've come this far. But we kindly ask that, in addition to putting on the mask, they also change their policies, start free testing, otherwise the national referendum initiated by DK will force you to do so. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-10-12-10	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Minister of State, Mr Csaba Dömötör, Deputy Minister, responds to what has been said. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy Minister.
u2020-10-12-11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, First things first, about the tests. We've seen in the last few weeks how many false rumors have been made about this. With the same vehemency, it was said that eight out of ten tests must be paid in Hungary, while you know very well that the vast majority of tests do not have to be paid, because it is indeed based on WHO protocol, and if the general practitioner, hospitals or authorities require or require testing, it is free. [[11.30]] As regards international examples, if you have already mentioned [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély intervenes.]] Now that you've brought it up, you know very well, you know very well that most countries in Europe are following protocols similar to those of us. So, like us, the symptoms are tested for free, and those who want to know that they have been sick or carry the virus must pay, with the huge difference, honourable Member, that in most countries there is no official price, so they do not prevent profit. As far as schools are concerned, a number of measures have been put in place since 1 September and 1 October, including distance rules. I think we can be happy, talk to parents, talk to professional representatives, talk to teachers, that we didn't have to introduce the digital curriculum everywhere, but we have to introduce it in some places where the infection appeared, but the only thing we don't know is a case where there's a mass infection all over the school. That is why there are targeted measures. I'm sorry they keep spreading false news, rumors, untruths. If I may add a few more, say, the case of their professional politician Kálmán Olga, who toured with the lack of masks in hospitals, even though the operational tribe regularly receives a report of how much protective equipment there is, and each institution must have two weeks' reserves. Then, for example, let us look at the increase in medical wages that you have constantly demanded, but they are still silent about it, but that is still the better case, because they spread a lot of untruths, for example, that the workers and nurses will not receive an increase, while the decision on it has already been made earlier. Last year they will receive an increase of 8 percent, 14 plus 20 percent this year, and a further 30 percent in 2022, after which, by the way, every health worker has received a half a million allowances this year, and you are debating them. What I would like to ask you to do is, if you can't make a substantial contribution to the professional debate, at least stop the false publicity. So much for the questions you've raised. But there is one crucial issue here that I would like to mention briefly, and that is the szerencsi, the Borsodi interim election. I think that Jobbik and I will discuss the general lessons here, but I would like to raise one thing here about you, because the lessons in your case are just as serious, because the left has practically taken on anti-Semitism during the Borsod elections. It's not just that they've met a party that used to say tough, harsh anti-Semitic things, but that they've lined up now, not before, but now behind a candidate who's been judapesting, lice sliders, and who knows what else he's said! [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] Earlier you said, not us, but you, that Jobbik is the representative of death, instead of life, and that they must stand in their way constitutionally. They also said there's no home with the Nazis. Now they joined forces with those who had been called Nazis; what they had joined together, they even took on the better candidate as their own, that because of legal misfortune, Jobbik could not even start his own candidate! And when you were asked about this, on the moral side of this, you lay low and made it all go away with, well, you already apologized. So, so far, it's been butchered, but now they've inaugurated the statue of left-wing hypocrisy. Mr President, I would like to add that you have been alarming extremists and Nazis abroad for years. [[Noise, interruptions from the opposition benches.]] They've reported the country all day long. Now, please take out the same phone book, the same e-mail address list, and tell them that you're working with these people now. And we may, in the public eye, add that they are well off, and there is a good reason for that, that extremism, aggression and anti-Semitism in Hungary do not have and cannot have a majority. Thank you for listening. [[Dr. Pál Völner: That's right! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-12	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, Mr Zsolt Molnár, Member of the MSZP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on the subject on 13 October. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-12-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Before I speak of your current messages on October 13, following the comments of you and the representatives of the government on the coronal virus epidemic, it occurred to me that you are not fighting the virus epidemic in the first place, but are fighting the real facts and news about the virus epidemic in an uncompromising way, so that the reality is not revealed. October 13th. A year ago on this day, October 12, Hungary and Hungary's opposition voters went to bed with a tense but hopeful expectation. They waited for October 13th for the day to dawn, which was the day of NER Hungary in the morning, but by the time a significant part of the country went to bed in the evening, this hope had already changed into Hungary, as we look at what happened a year ago. On October 13, here in the capital, the mayor, who has led Budapest for two cycles, believed to be invincible, suffered a severe defeat with the support of the Prime Minister and you, Fidesz. In 10 of the 23 county-righted cities of the country, a Republican mayor was elected, and in 13 of the 23 county-righted cities a opposition and republican majority was formed, and in many other settlements of the country, not only in the capital and county-righted cities, but also in smaller settlements, opposition and republican mayors were elected. After the first alarm, you acted like you had forgotten nothing and learned nothing, since you launched a full-time attack on the municipal system. Withdrawal, austerity, punishment, liquidation, these are the words that characterize the government's attitude to the Hungarian authorities. To be fair, it is not only the opposition, it is also the elimination of its own, i.e. the Fidesz-led municipalities, that is to say, the entire municipal system is being made impossible. Why are you doing all this? Because the brakes and counterweights against the central state, i.e. Fidesz's party-state thinking, must be eliminated and a country envisaged by Article XX. It was characterized by half- and whole dictatorships of the century, or by former feudal societies, where the whole country depends on the will of a man, and anyone who dares to say otherwise is not needed in this country. However, local governments represent not only the brakes and counterweights, but also hope in this country. The Metropolitan Government, led by Gergely Christmas, has become a symbol of the governing power, the green left thought, and that is what you want to make impossible in its entirety. But they are not on the right path, because the Hungarian electorate sent a message a year ago, and they keep sending a message that they are not asking for this country, they are not asking for the return of a party state, but they want to live in a country based on a consultation, a real common thinking and a joint dialogue, where they place emphasis on a real partnership in a meaningful dialogue, rather than a national consultation. Such a country is wanted by the opposition-led municipalities, and especially by the Metropolitan Municipality led by Gergely Christmas. You talked about the experience of the interim elections. I would urge you to be more modest and cautious, because the more than 40 per cent result achieved in Mohács and the winning of the two single constituencies in the area that can be called the Angyal Land of Fidesz, and 46 per cent in the 6th constituency of Borsod project what the municipal elections also said, is that, in autumn 2022, this country will take another direction, the Hungarian electorate will set another direction for Hungary, and in this case you will most likely need a lot of cardboard boxes for packaging. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-12-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Károly Kontrat, Deputy Minister, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2020-10-12-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, I wish you a good morning, and with great respect, I would like to draw your attention to the interim election results of the 6th constituency of Borsodi, and I would like to congratulate Zsófia Koncz, who has won this mandate. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] This vote of the people, this decision, shows a completely different picture of Hungary than what you have painted, honourable Member. I believe that we are doing our jobs here in Parliament and in the 6th constituency of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, with due modesty, respect for the people and the activities of the people, and we welcome our new fellow Members into our ranks. [[11.40]] As far as 13 October is concerned, as regards your thoughts on the anniversary, allow me to respond to the fact that during the 13 October 2019 elections, Hungary's strongest parties were Fidesz and KDNP. At the municipal elections, the 52 percent result of the pro-government candidates means that the government is once again authorised to continue the work started. Honourable Congressman, Allow me to refer here to your first thought about the epidemic, and it is completely untrue. We work for the health of Hungarian people. We are working to save everyone, to provide everyone with the conditions needed to combat the virus epidemic. I take this opportunity: if you really care about the health of Hungarian people, if the safety of Hungarian people is important, support the decisions of the government. There is no extraordinary legal order now because it was rejected earlier this spring on the grounds that it is not too late to act in the interests of the Hungarian people, honourable Member, please do so. If we had considered the election a year ago, if parliamentary elections had been held in Hungary at that time, then the governing parties would have obtained a certain majority. The governing Fidesz-KDNP association won in 19 of the 19 county general meeting in 13 of the 23 county-righted cities. In the case of settlements above five thousand inhabitants, 147 mayors with Fidesz-KDNP were elected, which means more than half of the settlements, and on 13 October 2019 they elected the mayor in the colours of Fidesz-KDNP. As far as the cases in Budapest are concerned, the government has not given up on Budapest, and we see it as the capital of the nation. The government provides the same conditions for Mayor Gergely Christmas as he provided for István Tarlós as Mayor General. If we look back over the last thirty years, the last thirty years of Budapest, we can say that there were two periods of Budapest, the Demszky era, when Budapest was a dirty, stinky, unorganized, crime-contaminated, development-contaminated city, and this made it unworthy of being the nation's capital. The government had to take over a debt of over HUF 200 billion. Speaking of numbers, in 2010, the government took over a HUF 200 billion debt from Budapest in 2013, and now, after 13 October 2019, you did not mention this, more than HUF 100 billion of free funds were available to Gergely Christmas and the new Municipality of Budapest. I think this is an important difference: 200 billion minus, or more than 100 billion forints plus. It can be said that István Tarlós saved the capital from bankruptcy, he has put order in order, today one of Budapest's most dynamically developing cities, and its most dynamically developing capital. When you look at the era that you praised, the Christmas period, what symbolic decisions did you make? Let's see. Insect hotel, hornet garage, bee-friendly garden [[Defiance from the pro-government ranks.]] Not to mention the traffic chaos on the Körút, the painting of cycling lanes, which caused significant disruptions in the traffic of the capital. Let me highlight a symbolic decision, a symbolic example of the Christmas season: this is the question of the renovation of the Chain Bridge. Please, nothing has been done, practically more than a year, or a year without a new leadership in Budapest, and there are no signs of the renovation of the Chain Bridge, but they boast of stopping the parts of the Liget project and stopping various development programmes. It can be said, honourable Member, that the left can make a difference, and the Fidesz-KDNP can build. That's the difference between us. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-12-16	Thank you for the Deputy Minister's speech. Dear Parliament, Dr. László György Lukács Member [[Intercom from Fidesz: Where does the money come from?]] to be followed by [[Intercom from Jobbik: Where does the potatoes come from?]] The government's policy is credible. with the title Jobbik Group. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-12-17	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, we thank those who participated in the interim election of Borsod County District 6 yesterday, who went and voted yesterday. We also owe thanks to those who have believed in the opposition candidate, who have supported the fact that it is one against one that the governing parties can be defeated. It is also clear that this election took place in a brutal counterwind. What they went on was a very simple example, but as a first step, you tried to make the opposition's joint candidate impossible, delay his departure or prevent it. It was clear that all this time you've been trying to get the voters to see better. There was potato distribution, there was toilet sharing. [[Defiance and interrogation from the pro-government benches. Toilets?]] But we got to the point where they managed to hand out laptops in the area. [[Intercom from Fidesz: Toilet Dining?]] They also shared toilet paper, yes, there's visual evidence of that, by the way. Let me offer you news from the news portals that deal with this, by the way. But to get on with it, you've used one of the most despicable methods I think is the most disgusting. You have asked the mayors to call the inhabitants of the settlement to campaign alongside Zsófia Koncz and vote for him. You used people who, by the way, held people's trust in the election as independent. One of their independent mayors has come all the way, and we expect Imre Ritter to close down, if any, that he himself said that Imre Ritter was voting with you in essence, and that is why the aim is not to break down two-thirds, and not to break down two-thirds, is the real goal of the election. One of the ethnic advocates in the National Assembly, who was elected by the German minority, you and one of the mayors associated with you said, "This should at least keep everyone out of the way." I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. But take, for example, one part of the counterwind and the brutal counterwind when the MTI broadcasts news about the district, almost exclusively, in any case, about Zsófia Koncz's program, your mantra, your propaganda, and even hirado.hu's prevented them from doing so, and it worked as a real propaganda, which, by the way, should be a public service. Now, let's see what has been confirmed in this opposite wind: that it is necessary to fight one against one, and this can only be the alternative to your replacement, and this may be the only way to replace you. Turns out there's no alternative but opposition cooperation. In a massively fidesz district, you were able to win with little success, and in a very close competition, only the Fidesz candidate could win. Finally, on this subject, it can be said that in a democratic country yesterday, the opposition would have won, and that is the lesson of this election. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Democracy is the majority!]] In order to return to another expression of thanks, allow me to [[Noise. The president's ringing the bell.]] Let us thank those who have recently been, because we are not only an election, but we are in the second wave of a pandemic, let us thank those workers, health workers, social workers, or even volunteers, but also the disciplined Hungarian people for taking part in the defence and helping the country to defend itself. Otherwise, it is not up to them at the moment, because they are doing everything they can, but it seems that Viktor Orbán, as we can safely say, is allowing the virus to dictate the pace by observing the data of the past period. There are two rather serious conclusions and two facts to this conclusion. One is the rate of testing, the other is the opinion of the virologists you've asked for, the experts. To talk about testing, the percentage of positive samples in the tests carried out in Hungary is already above 10%, which is significantly far from the expectations of the WHO of 5%. Over 5 percent, WHO says that in a country where positive values are developed, there is no control of the virus. You don't have the virus under control. That's what your experts say, by the way. Russian Beatrix also said that we had reached practically the upper limit of testing, so they were unable to keep track of what was going on. And virologist Ferenc Jakab reported more sad about it, for if this trend follows and this trend continues, we can expect an even more brutal epidemic. Ladies and gentlemen, Let us tell you that the virus will not be alarmed by the billboards, that it does not read the Hungarian nation, that it does not read the Origo with communication tricks, and that there is no victory here with a few tons of sacked potatoes. Orbán's failure to release the virus was a mistake, keeping the tests low. We need free, wide-ranging testing to protect the workers, health workers, the social sphere, and I would even suggest and consider extending the next fall break in schools in order to turn off the viral circuit in schools and send students for at least two weeks off, protecting students, parents and teachers. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]] [[11.50]]
u2020-10-12-18	Thank you. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr Csaba Dömötör, Minister of State, wishes to respond to what has been said. You have the floor.
u2020-10-12-19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me, Congressman, to begin with the second subject. As far as health and defence are concerned, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is an epidemic and a second wave throughout Europe, and if you look at the numbers, Hungary remains among the more defensive countries. The most important thing remains the protection of human life, and if you look at the mortality statistics I suggest you do it, you will see that 89 people in Belgium per 100,000, 64 in the United Kingdom, 49 in France richer than us, and 10 in Hungary. So when you take away the effectiveness of defense and the work of doctors and nurses, I urge you to look at the facts first, and, if you look at them, don't spread rumors about it. We agree that doctors, especially in this situation, should be valued, as well as nurses, which is why the government has decided to accept the Medical Chamber's proposal and their wages may double. In the case of nurses, a 72 percent wage increase was decided earlier. As regards the Szerencs election, first of all, we would like to thank those who have exercised their suffrage and strengthened Hungarian democracy by voting yesterday and congratulating Zsófia Koncz. It makes his victory particularly valuable by gaining such a vast majority. Now I wouldn't go into the presentation and detail of the results, but there is a huge difference between the left and the governing parties, the left and the right in this. On the left, they constantly insult those who place their trust in the ruling parties. They are classified by degree, place of residence, and age, and this has been going on for years. Such statements cannot be made on the part of the governing parties. A lot of people voted for Zsófia Koncz, but he will represent not only those who voted for him here in Parliament, but all those living in Borsod, and, by the way, he will fight for every Hungarian citizen, no matter where he put the Iks. Honourable Congressman, First of all, it should be noted that Peter James, who had been on this subject with extreme vehemency over the last few weeks, did not have the courage to come to today's meeting. [[Intercoms from Fidesz: That's right! István Szilárd Németh: He was scared! György Szilágyi intervenes.]] It was not so long ago that you said in this House that you would decide not only on Bordrönd, but on the future of the country. If you maintain this claim, please add that the ruling parties have been awarded their trust as winners in this election. [[Interview from Jobbik's ranks: The potato is on sale!]] The person who's been watching yesterday's news reports can see that you're blaming the results on everything - the election system, the media, the bad weather. It's like Mrs. Jourová's script, really. It seems that according to the left-wing view, and you already share it, democracy is only possible if the left-wing candidate wins. So, what I'm asking you to do is take on the consequences of your actions instead of showing them the quality of your actions, take on the kind of candidate you've put in, with your anti-Semitic statements, and the people you've left on the side of the road, people you refer to by the way. [[An intervention from Jobbik's ranks: Lies!]] But László Bíró's case is no longer relevant here; they also have to take responsibility for presenting the biggest transformation of the last 30 years. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: You are the best at this! Tibor Nunkovics: Where are the KIS periods, right? The president's ringing the bell.]] Not so long ago, they said no to cooperation with left-wing parties; then let me ask you how it felt to explain defeat together with DK politicians. Don't you think this demise was thick in yesterday's results? Don't you think? [[György Szilágyi intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] Honourable Congressman, In 2018, Jobbik, after his election defeat, said Gábor Vona, more specifically, that the direction was right. They've begun to approach Gyurcsány. In 2019 they lost the EU election, the Jobbik fell dramatically. What did Congressman Szilágyi say? It's a good direction. They went even further towards Gyurcsány. And do you know what Peter James said after yesterday's defeat? They'll figure it out. It's a good direction. That's what he said. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Party of Directions.]] For Jobbik, that's the way down now. If this is a good direction for you, then we take note of it, but we note that even in the Borsod region, which you here, especially Peter James, have constantly referred to, is not surprising after such unconventional turns. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: The potato is on sale! Buy some potatoes. The president's ringing the bell.]] A few days ago, they said here that the Borsodians would launch the avalanche. I think that's true, by the way, except that this avalanche buried Jobbik. Do you know who's gonna scrape you out of the snow? [[György Szilágyi constantly intervenes.]] Whose face...
u2020-10-12-20	Congressman Szilágyi, please. No dialogue! This is State Secretary speaking for now. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Buy potatoes! Potato, please.]]
u2020-10-12-21	Do you know whose face you're gonna see when we get through this? Ferenc Gyurcsány. A lot of thanks won't be included, but neither will being independent. The fact is that Peter James has a huge responsibility for all this, turning a national party into a DK-based organization. There'll be no turning back from here. You'll take responsibility for that. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-22	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, István Simicskó, Head of the Group, the KDNP Group, asked for a pre-meeting address on current affairs. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2020-10-12-23	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There's been a fight against the epidemic. Hungary works. Yesterday also pointed out this, since we succeeded in two victories. One of them: the Hungarian football team, we can now say that during its third appearance in a foreigner, it has succeeded in winning, and this is also of historical importance. However, let me say a few words about the victory at home, not just about the foreigner, and this is indeed the victory of Zsófia Koncz, who won the 6th constituency of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County in the colors of Fidesz-KDNP. On behalf of the KDNP fraction, let me also congratulate you on this prestigious and successful victory. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] We wish him good luck and good work this way. Ladies and gentlemen, This election also convinced us that Hungary is a democratic rule of law, that the electoral system is working, that the elections have been legally held. Zsófia Koncz won by more than 50 percent in the Borsodi district. I would also like to say here that we have already heard various comments during the debate that Fidesz-KDNP's candidate has never won over 50 percent in this area before. So this also shows that he has won a historic victory. I would like to add that not only did he win, but also the 42 settlements, the people who lived there, who, by the way, were already well served by his father, and who represented their interests in Parliament. I'm sure you'll be able to do this job crediblely and convincingly for the good of the people who live there. We also have to consider what happened to the candidate on the other side, what happened to the candidate on the left. We can see that the left coalition bled out, failed, failed to rise to the standard set for themselves. I still remember when I was a kid ad for the Szerencs Chocolate Factory, the chocolate commercial that was about the need for a little Szerencs to live. This would be an easy and simple answer in the search for the reasons why the opposition, the candidate of the left, could not achieve greater results, but I believe that this answer is not enough, because it was not only a matter of luck, but it was primarily a matter for you to join a candidate who was openly involved in racist, openly anti-Semitic, corporate scandals, knowing what his affairs were, how aggressive and arrogant he spoke and threatened and threatened those seams that he did not pay, and I have to say that this was a really serious shame in this respect, too, because all left parties were lined up behind this unsuitable candidate. Let us not forget that Gergely Christmas himself was there and campaigned for an anti-Semitic candidate, András Fekete-Győr, and many others from the leading politicians on the left. I would also like to remind you that in the spring of 2008 Gergely Christmas gave a speech somewhere, if I remember correctly, around the Liberty Bridge, when she said that she would be able to join forces with the devil to replace Fidesz-KDNP. Well, it worked out here, but they didn't win. So I guess we're never gonna make it, because it's a failure. As a KDNP politician, may I say to your candidate, and perhaps to you, who have been very active in this campaign, that Saint Kamill is telling us that our job is to think well, to do good and to say good. If applicable, László Bíró's candidacy did not meet any of the conditions. That was probably one of the reasons for the failure. The other reason for your failure was that, obviously, Ferenc Koncz and our former colleague Fidesz-KDNP did a great deal for the people living in 42 settlements, and this work was appreciated, and the people living there did not forget, and they see this opportunity in the case of a young, talented, ambitious, dynamic woman, Zsófia Koncz. [[12.00]] I trust that this work will be done as efficiently as possible, and we will support it in this endeavour. Finally, I should note to Zsolt Molnár, who talked about the close result and even raised the example of Mohács: I do not know what planet you live on, I think both are serious successes. Both the mayor election in Mohács is a major success on the part of Fidesz-KDNP, and the current election in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén county was also a major success. And that shows that people trust us because they know they can count on us, they can count on the Fidesz-KDNP candidates. I hope that will continue to be the case in the future. I wish you all good work on this. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-12-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, On behalf of the Government, Mr János Fónagy wishes to respond to what has been said. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
u2020-10-12-25	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, too, congratulate Zsófia Koncz, especially for winning in a region that has never been easy; he has always shown a difficult and complex picture of social policy. Just a reminder to those who may remember the numbers worse: there was always a great fight there before 2010. Whoever still remembers it was with a clearly MSZP candidate, one or two or three votes passed the election, recounts, one here, one there; there was never a simple district for either half of the politics. In 2010, Ferenc Koncz, Fidesz-KDNP won by 49 percent with 61 percent participation. The reason why it is interesting to add the voting rates of Jobbik and MSZP is because the two of them reached 44.5 percent together. In 14 with a 59 percent participation, Fidesz-KDNP reached 40.43, Jobbik's candidate was still on its own and 55.5 on the left. And then, 18 came, which was said in the last few minutes, when Zsófia Koncz won by nearly 51 percent with 45.5 percent participation, so he won by more than 50 percent, while the left, by the way, reached 45 percent. This figure shows that Hungarian voters are not buying for an unconventional power- and money-hungry alliance, they are not buying into the collective policy of Gyurcsány, Christmas, Kunhalmi, Márki-Zay, Black-Győr and other names. They're not buying it! The 45 percent participation rate shows that the voters of Abaúj and Taktaköz who feel traditionally left-wing, stayed away, did not go to vote for the better candidate, and stayed away from the vote. So much for the practicality of unity. The other thing I'd like to talk about is more personal, and maybe I wouldn't have told you if I hadn't listened to the leftists of the last 50 minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, I was the man here a few years ago that Jobbik's high, elected European man wanted to list because of his Jewish origin. I was the one who got into a conflict here in Parliament, and he was also a betterman, and he is no longer a betterman, for the same reasons. Cliché, a wise man once said that those who do not know history are condemned to relive it. And that's what I tell all my friends, acquaintances, sometimes political opponents. Those who today believe that there is no more important task for them than the replacement of a national conservative government, who believe that all means can be used for the departure of the current government regime, should think of the autumn and the beginning of 1932! You can live again! I can see the flashing eyes. I need you to stand behind me and face the people we're facing here. And think of it as a good emotional attitude by denying denial that whatever it is, just not what it is now, is behind people who have historically reported tragedy once and may have been in the past. For me, this election in Borsodi, which is not easy, because this part of Taktaköz and Abaúj has always been controversial, says that in a really critical situation [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] They were able to make the right choice. That's what these numbers tell me and I guess for all of us. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-12-26	I thank the Secretary of State for his reply with due respect. Dear Parliament, Máté Kocsis, Head of the Group, Fidesz Group, has applied for a pre-meeting address with the title of our current affairs. Mr. Team Leader, you have the floor.
u2020-10-12-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members, It's very embarrassing what's happened here in the last hour. It is very embarrassing that left-wing parties remain silent about yesterday's events, as if there were nothing, and Jobbik, following the traditions of their president yesterday, only demonstrated the dignityless wear of cutting and losing. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, for your part, the sentence that you congratulate Zsófia Koncz has never once been said here in Parliament today. [[Intercom from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] It is clear from this that you cannot bear defeat, not only but you cannot face your own problems. For our part, I would like to add that, having become a member of my group, Zsófia Koncz, I congratulate him on his great victory and welcome him here in the place of his late father; and we trust that the work that his father started in the region can continue with enthusiasm, and the voters have now given him confidence in it. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]] As for the results, it's not that you're surprised you're not telling the truth again. This precinct has never been pro-government, and this party alliance in this district, even in the new district, has never had one, not two elections, a result of more than 50 percent. Fidesz and KDNP have never received a score above 50 percent, it's a shame to take it away. It says a lot about your cooperation, by the way, that you've been given less votes in percentage and nominally than before. So this, thank God, is not for us to think about. But on the merits of the case, yesterday the electorate gave a verdict after all. They tasted the Soros sausage, and they didn't like it, and the truth is, they don't want anything connected to the name of Ferenc Gyurcsány. You failed the way you are. They failed in Christmas, in the evening of Péter Márki-Zay, in Ferenc Gyurcsány, in Kunhalmist, all of it. Moreover, the responsibility remains here, and especially for left-wing parties, that you wanted to send a man into Parliament who, in addition to insulting Jewish compatriots to the blood, but while talking about job creation and wage development, did not pay simple seams, wages and salaries. I would like to say in his negative appreciation, surprisingly contradicting Mr Csaba Dömötör, Secretary of State, who said that these matters had been silenced, I think it is worse: he was excused. The reason I regret this campaign is that it is over, because there was some sporting value in the fact that everyone from Gábor Horn to György Bulgarian was working on how to clean a net Nazi. Allow me some quotes. Ferenc Gyurcsány said that I do not care what he said yesterday, what he did, I say that we should fight together in this fight. He thinks it's a force for this kind of diversity. I wonder how you deal with your own voters. Feel free to taste these sentences. Or Gergely Christmas, who spoke of each other's tuning and his best friends, I imagine he is the mayor of the Judapest, which László Bíró insulted to the blood of his words. [[12.10]] I would also like to say to you that I had a great favourite of my fellow Member Kunhalmi's sentence, that the Republic forces, we are behind the Fidesz. And the voters decided to stay there for a while. And while we're at it, let's talk about that guy, the crappiest guy who didn't even dare come here today, your president, Peter James, who last night made a very hairy statement after an election. And allow me to think that it is one thing for DKs to join forces with a party that, as a result of what one of their members said, had already gone out on the street, I would add that Márton Gyöngyösi's Jewish listing in the turn was not in comparison with László Bíró's words, but that you, the besties, would join up with the party against which they were practically conspiring, and now they will join up with him by name, not only in parliamentary voting together, it may be beyond the limits of good taste. And, you know, Gábor Vona took the soul of Jobbik, but Peter James sold it; he also traded it for money, sold it to the man against whom your political community was formed. And yes, perhaps, Mr Szilágyi, to bring up the past, but perhaps you should consider why so many better voters turn away from you, why they became six percent parties out of 20 percent. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian intervenes.]] But let me quote you something. On October 11th, the rejoinder will come, there will be a starfall, on that day the people will judge you! And for me, it's a little pleasure that the poorest county in the country, Borsod, will judge. On that day, we Borsodians will launch the avalanche and bury this madness once and for all. No, they weren't talking about Peter James, that's what he said. Shame on you for your association with Ferenc Gyurcsány, for your dishonesty and for everything you've done to people in Borsodi in your false campaign. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-12-28	I thank Mr Group Leader for his speech and give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister, who wishes to respond on behalf of the Government.
u2020-10-12-29	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Chief of Staff, Dear House, I would also like to quote from Mr. Peter James, a later sentence of his speech: "On October 11th, the truth will prevail over the lie. On Sunday, October 11th, the Hungarian people will decide the interim parliamentary elections in Borsod. For weeks we have heard nothing from Peter James but to raise the stakes of interim elections higher and higher, almost paralleling his own chair, and now, when the result of the election is here, he does not come to Parliament, nor does he assume responsibility here in Parliament for the subject he has spoken here from week to week in a more aggressive style. Now he hides, cowardly comes in, dares not take responsibility for his own decision either in front of Parliament or in front of his left-wing allies, and apparently not even in front of his own party. We remember the last half decade when politicians linked to the left won interim elections, so there have been examples of this, in a number of recent elections. Now, however, when all left-wing parties have given up all their principles to replace the national government, now the success that they have hoped for for for half a decade in the interim elections has failed, and now it has not worked. So here are those who, at all times when they found signs of anti-Semitism, went straight to the street, and now they're standing up behind an anti-Semitic candidate, and here's the Jobbik, who came into Parliament with Ferenc Gyurcsány as a convict, and now Ferenc Gyurcsány is the new favorite for Jobbik and wants to govern with him. Gábor Vona gave up the leader of Jobbik in a similar situation as Peter James now took his own party. I would quote another sentence from Peter James: László Bíró does not steal, does not cheat, and does not lie. When you said that, I don't know, you already received the letter from our fellow Member, Ákos Hadházy. Ákos Hadházy made it public that he examined the case, the matter of non-payment of the benefit of the seamstress, which could be read in the press. After the election, Ákos Hadházy wrote about the matter in person, and for this reason he says it to his fellow left-wing politicians. From my investigations, this story could have been illustrated by a Corruptioninfo. The left-wing representative says that the left-wing candidate's activities would have been worth a corruption info. I didn't talk about it in public, but I informed the party presidents of what I had learned. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. This means that both Ferenc Gyurcsány, András Fekete-Győr, Gergely Christmas, Bertalan Tóth, and Ágnes Kunhalmi and Péter Jakab themselves knew that this matter was very dangerous, and even as Ákos Hadházy says, it is serious and can be illustrated by Corruptioninfo. And then they went there to self-defeat, to hold a forum, to look people in the eyes, here in Parliament, in the eyes of the right-wing Members, and they said that he was a decent man, and they went to the voters in the constituency, and they said he was a decent man; after their own left-wing fellow politician revealed to them that this was a very serious matter. And they didn't investigate him, they didn't open an honest trial against him, they hid it. There was a plane of communication that people were told, and there is another thing they knew about it in reality, and there is no connection between the two, and Ákos Hadházy said it at least after the election, but the other Members did not report this either before or during the election or after the election. This is about the same as when Members of the Momentum deny in public debates that they are negotiating with Jourova and spreading lies about Hungary, then admitting in their own internal forum that they are negotiating every three days and participating in the campaign against Hungary. Thus, the Hungarian Parliament has escaped an anti-Semitic candidate, and we trust that it will be forever, but for a long time, who also threatened and threatened the seamstress, and this is not said by the right, not by the right-wing press, but by Ákos Hadházy. But if we look at the choices of the last few weeks, we can be happy, because those who wanted to work for the Hungarians have won everywhere, and those who have lost against the Hungarians: Mohács, Marosvásárhely and Szerencsen. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-12-30	I thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik; Ádám Steinmetz, Jobbik; Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP; Péter Ungár, LMP; Bence Rétvári, KDNP; Péter Ovádi, Fidesz; Zoltán Varga, DK; László Hajdu, DK; László Varju, DK; János Bencsik, independent; Tamás Csányi, Jobbik; Anita Potocskané Kőrösi, Jobbik; Lajos Rig, Jobbik; István Apáti, independent; László Sebian-Petrovski, DK; Tibor Bana, independent. Dear Parliament, Now, at 12:18 p.m., we will continue our work by discussing immediate questions. Dear Parliament, I remind you that the accepted H/12958. The Prime Minister and the Minister shall not be obliged to answer the immediate questions in person during the discussion of immediate questions after 60 minutes. Dear Parliament, Péter Jakab and György Szilágyi, representatives of Jobbik, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question, "What do you think of this, Prime Minister?" It's an address. Because of his absence, Prime Minister Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I ask the Members, who are present, to accept the person who is responding, or to ask the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-10-12-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We'll wait for Prime Minister.
u2020-10-12-32	Thank you. I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister will have to reply at the next meeting. [[12.20]] Dear Parliament, Dániel Z. Carpathian, representative of Jobbik, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think of this, Prime Minister? It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding. [[For signal:]] Yeah. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-10-12-33	Mr President, Dear House, If, for a moment, we take our eyes off the sale Fidesz potato fair in Borsod, the mass potato distribution, the organized delivery of voters, the recording of participants in the street forums by local Fidesz potentas, and then the suspected blackmail and threat of these people on informal channels, and if we even go a little further than the life-threatening threat of a better activist, then I must tell you another weekend event that calls for the government's response, and in any case, at least if you claim to be a national government in traces. It happened that Szentendre and you can smile at it, it must be very funny for a woman with cancer to come home after fighting for her life in the hospital. By the time she returned home, she was aware that she could not get into her own home, for while she was in the hospital fighting for her cancer, the bailiff replaced the lock with a police aid at her own home, and the sick lady could not get in for her own medicine, her personal belongings. It is a great fortune that a son of his living in the north county was able to come to his aid; our local right-wing activist, our representative, will help us complain about these matters later today. We see that the government itself lying to the national community has assisted in more than 10,000 evictions without accommodation. That's what you should be talking about and boasting about the protected families, instead of glorifying yourselves after the result of the vote. But in a specific case, I ask you, Minister, do you consider it acceptable in Fidesz Hungary that a woman with cancer not be able to get into her apartment when she returns home, have access to her medicines, her personal belongings? Please respond to this point on its merits. Thank you.
u2020-10-12-34	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga, who wishes to answer the immediate question. Deputy Prime Minister, please.
u2020-10-12-35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I'm glad you got to the point of your question. I note that what you said in the intro only shows that Jobbik can't win or lose, can't accept the decision that the voters made in this constituency of Borsod. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] It would be good to note that the results of the parliamentary elections are made by the electorate. It can be debated, challenged, criticized, dissatisfied, but in the end, I think it is worth accepting. [[Dr. Brenner Koloman intervenes.]] That is the basis of democracy, even if the congressman next to you grumbled something under his mask, I did not hear it, and he will probably share it with me during the break. With regard to your specific question, Mr President, if you had provided me with the information available to you in this particular case, I would probably have looked into it and given an accurate answer. You have brought up a case that is obviously difficult to tolerate at first hearing, difficult to accept, but we do not know this particular housing issue of this citizen, we do not know why the executioner took such steps, we do not know how and how your son has taken redress on this matter, as you have said. So I'm asking you, Congressman, if you're suggesting something like this, you can get this to me. By the way, I am able to inform the honourable Members of Parliament that the government is preparing to take further steps beyond the housing policy measures taken so far, and we would like to see the number of homes built linked to demographic steps increase further. To this end, we will announce these measures one by one in the coming weeks. The first step was to reduce VAT by 5%. I hope you're happy about that, too, Congressman. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-36	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. In return, I'll give the floor to the congressman in a minute. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-37	Mr President, Dear House, Minister, he was more humane than all his fellows in other governments, as we have at least come to the point of finding it difficult to tolerate such a case. If you were completely honest, you'd be talking about why more than 10,000 of these cases were tolerated to you. If you wanted to prevent this and not shoot political pamphlet, then indeed the moratorium on eviction, Minister, you would, today, get this government to order it, because it is not on the opposition side, it could be part of your regulation governance. But that's not what you've been using the warrant for lately. Right now, there's an eviction going on in Érdez, even in these moments. It's not my place to schedule Minister's working hours, but if you had three days off, I could tour the country with you to learn about the Hungarian madness, the horror of throwing people out of their own homes without accommodation. In addition, 33 and 50 percent of the bans imposed on citizens during the harshest epidemiological and quarantine periods. Once again, without accommodation, at a time like this, a national government wouldn't let anyone on the street.
u2020-10-12-38	Dear Parliament, Mr Mihály Varga, Deputy Prime Minister, has the right to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-39	Honourable Congressman, We may agree that the situation that has brought on most of these problematic housing loans was not caused by the Fidesz government, but by those who are now your greatest political allies. [[Intercoms from the pro-government benches: That's right!]] They have now started with these in Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County, and you have failed to receive a majority. [[Dániel Z. Carpathian: Answer the moratorium!]] Two: what the Fidesz government has done in recent years and could have done in order to reduce this problem, we have done. The liquidation, the conversion of foreign exchange loans, the launch of customer support programmes, and we have taken a great deal of measures to ensure that the 1.7 million foreign exchange-credited problem people who were in this stock, in this stock, are reduced to 1 percent and that the 62 percent of foreign currency loans are now reduced to 1 percent. So I think, Mr President, that we have done a great deal to reduce this problem. Third, you couldn't tell whether this particular case, this particular housing loan, was still coming from foreign currency loans or a loan that had already started. So if I tell you again, I can give you more answers, until then, unfortunately, I ask you to settle for this answer. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-40	I thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Szakács, a representative of the MSZP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question. It's an address. Because of his absence, Prime Minister Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2020-10-12-41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, I will wait for Prime Minister.
u2020-10-12-42	I would like to inform you, Mr President, that the Prime Minister wishes to reply at the next meeting. Dear Parliament, Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, a representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What is happening here? It's an address. Minister Bence Rétvári, Secretary of State, was entitled to reply because of his absence. I ask Congresswoman, she accepts the person who is responding. [[Ildikó Bangóné Borbély: I accept.]] You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-12-43	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. In the last week, almost every day, a record has been made of data that we have been able to listen to about the coronal virus epidemic. On October 10, 1374 new infected were registered and 24 died on October 7. Today's data was not much better: 1173 new patients were registered and 14 died. Over the past few weeks, we have been constantly informed at government level that health care is prepared to care for patients with coronary viruses, hospitals are prepared, they have all the means to care for all patients. We do not talk about the fact that, in most cases, patients do not visit the hospital, but visit their family doctor in primary care. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: On the phone.]] Today there are 562 empty general medical practices in Hungary, nearly 720 thousand Hungarians do not have access to the basic supply, the basic service for which we pay heavy tax forints today. Some settlements have been unfilled for 15 to 16 years. We can also talk about how the cords of general practitioners are composed, and the government does not talk about it much every day. In 2010, 53 percent of the GPs were permanently unfilled, with 71 percent already in 2018. [[12.30]] Mr. Secretary. I'm asking you, these people who don't get basic care on a daily basis, who to turn to. What are the chances of the epidemic now? I think they are in the greatest danger today in Hungary. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Mr. Secretary. Where do they need to turn, and what kind of services can they get? I'm looking forward to your reply.
u2020-10-12-44	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-45	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, If you look around the world, you can see everywhere, especially here in Central Europe, in Western Europe, that the second wave of the epidemic is on the rise. What is happening in Hungary is accompanied by similar increases and a second wave in other countries. Thank God, the slope in Hungary is not as high as in other countries, because if you look at Belgium, the number of infected people has increased by 89 percent in a week; if you look at Great Britain, although there were probably statistical errors in it, cases that were not registered there, the number of infected has increased from 116 thousand to 224 thousand in a week. And other countries, Romania, Germany, Slovakia, Ireland, the Czech Republic, Spain, Italy, Denmark, where there is a very high rise, unfortunately the number of infected will set records. Even so, the number of infected people in Hungary is half the size of Malta or Switzerland, or nearly half as much as in Austria, but a third as in the Czech Republic, France, a quarter as in Belgium, or five times as in Spain, or six times as in the USA. So, thank God the number of infections is up, but today is not as high as in other countries, even richer than us. You may know it, and you may have just said inaccuracies that if you experience the symptoms of the coronal virus, you do not need to visit your doctor, and it is important to tell you this many times, but you must check in by phone, precisely to reduce the risk of infection. You know that in the last few years, over the last decade, there have been a lot of positive changes in general health care, as the rate of support per practice has increased by over 70 percent: somewhere around 700-800 thousand forints when you were in government, and now it's over 1.5 million forints when we govern. We have launched both the establishment aid and the practice support to provide non-refundable support to GPs of up to ten million or 20 million to purchase practices and to establish them, so that we have managed to achieve much better [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] to care for over half a million people and to provide dental care for over a quarter of a million people. That's what I'd like to do for the next minute. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-46	I thank you, Mr Secretary of State, for your reply. I will give the floor to the woman representing you in return. There you go, in a minute.
u2020-10-12-47	Mr. Secretary. In 2010, 176 GP districts were unfilled, 176! Now 562, in fact, a few months ago, 33 GP districts were filled with more than we are reporting. 562! Mr. Secretary, at least you're the one who's got to come in, and don't tell me how much better it is for the patients right now, because how much better things are. 562 compared to 176! Secretary of State, it does not comfort the Hungarian people that you say that someone can be called on the phone. 720 thousand Hungarian compatriots are unable to obtain basic care today. Even if you pay for it or paid for it, you simply don't have a GP in your own neighborhood for 720 thousand people. Well, at least don't stand up and tell me how much you've improved in the last few years, let's say, in the last ten years, the situation has improved. It's not getting any better. And, Mr. Secretary, you know very well that today in Hungary about the virus [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] We're not getting exact numbers because you're not willing to test them like that. [[The president's ringing again.]] As WHO requires and should be able to at least get a real picture.
u2020-10-12-48	Thank you very much, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-12-49	The number of tests has dropped by half in the last week, Mr. Secretary of State.
u2020-10-12-50	Thank you very much.
u2020-10-12-51	Stop lying to me now.
u2020-10-12-52	It's expired!
u2020-10-12-53	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-10-12-54	Dear Parliament, You have a rejoinder, Mr. Secretary of State, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-55	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, You may not say that according to WHO Hungary is testing, only Ledia Lazeri, the office manager of the WHO in Hungary, says that Hungary is testing according to the WHO protocol. He may not have been here in the speeches before the agenda, where I gave the specific figures: while in September, early September, the number of daily tests varied between 1000 and 2000, now in most days it is over 10,000, so the number of tests has increased several times. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and In your time, the average salary of a general physician was 867,000 forints per month, you gave 867,000 forints to a practice, we give 1 million 634 thousand forints on average to a practice. This was due to the fact that we have been able to provide general medical care for 675,000 people in the past, because through the practice grants, which we have more than one billion forints in this year, for establishment and practice support, we have managed to improve this, and so many people have been able to provide their general health care. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Everyone's basic care has been solved because a person who does not have his own home doctor has been replaced, and we will strive to have a higher standard of basic care within the practice communities. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-56	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, László Sebian-Petrovszki, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: how long will it take to translate a decision of the Constitutional Court into the language of action? It's an address. Because of his absence, Prime Minister Mihály Varga asked for an answer. I ask Mr. Congressman, he accepts the person who is responding.
u2020-10-12-57	Yeah, I'll take it.
u2020-10-12-58	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-12-59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. In May, more than five months ago, I tried to confront and talk to Prime Minister about the fact that the Constitutional Court ruled that the law that cut the disability pensions was unconstitutional a few years ago, and that the Fidesz Act, which was passed by Fidesz, left hundreds of thousands of people along the road, reduced hundreds of thousands of invalid pensions, or put 10 percent of those affected out of the system; the Constitutional Court ruled this illegal. What does the Hungarian Government intend to do to remedy this problem? Once again, it was decided by the Constitutional Court, in which all the members have already been delegated, so it is not possible to accuse them of making this decision by members close to the opposition. The deadline was 31 March last year, so when I asked Prime Minister that in May, we were already on a one-year delay. Since then, another five months have passed, and nothing has happened, let alone compensation, we cannot talk about settlement at all. Here, too, I told you that there are those who receive only HUF 30,000 a month instead of their monthly allowance of HUF 122 thousand. At that time, the Prime Minister tried to pass on responsibility to those who suffered injustice, and I think it is outrageous, but the Constitutional Court's decision clearly stated that it is unacceptable to regulate that a loser who lost one foot must have himself examined again whether he had outgrown half his leg in the meantime. However, then the Prime Minister concluded his reply with this, and let me quote:. It is not so easy to translate the Constitutional Court's decision into the language of government action, but we are trying and working on it. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Mr. Secretary. I would ask the government then, they had almost five months to work on this law or to correct the law. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] How long does it take you to translate this decision, what does it mean to try? Is that what it means? Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for the DK benches.]]
u2020-10-12-60	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Mihály Varga. Here you go, Deputy Prime Minister.
u2020-10-12-61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable Congressman, First of all, let us be clear about the purpose of this amendment. The reform of the system of care for persons with disabilities in 2012 was designed to establish a uniform system from the former diverse care system, taking into account medical, employment and social aspects, which is based on complex ratings and follows the principle of insurance. Contrary to what you have said, the Constitutional Court has not established a violation of the Fundamental Law of transformation, but of the failure of the legislative tasks arising from the international treaty, it is two different things, Member. In view of the fact that the Constitutional Court did not propose specific measures, it did not require the Government or Parliament to pay the compensation and interest of the parties concerned. The Constitutional Court has previously examined the constitutionality of the conversion of invalidity benefits and has not found it contrary to the Fundamental Law. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). The Court held that in 2017 the right to property enshrined in the Fundamental Law did not mean that the allowances once established could not be reviewed and changed depending on the state of the person concerned. [[12.40]] Honourable Congressman, The Constitutional Court's decision is reversed, and the government has interpreted it, and I can tell you that. Allow me to add so much in my time that in 2020 375 accredited employers from HUF 46 billion of budget funds received grants, from which we can ensure the employment of some 30 thousand people with disabilities. I am therefore pleased that the system is operational and that we have been able to provide additional resources to these people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-62	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. I give the floor to the congressman in return. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-12-63	He says, Minister, that the system is operational, and we are pleased and applauded for it, in Hungarian, we applaud that more than 100 thousand people, according to some data, are worse off with this situation, and the government has caused this to happen by saying that we like it, do not like it, we can cling to any of the paragraphs, but the Constitutional Court has declared it unconstitutional. It cannot be disputed that he had assigned a task to the government by 31 March of last year to remedy this problem somehow. It's been a year and a half or almost two years since the Constitutional Court's decision, I didn't get an answer to what was going to happen to these people. It may be said that the Constitutional Court has not stated that it is an obligation to compensate the government, I am talking about it, but if the government puts hundreds of thousands of people in a bad position, yes, it is morally obliged to sort out their situation and damage them. Yes, that's what I demand of you. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-12-64	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Mr Mihály Varga, Deputy Prime Minister, has the right to a rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-65	Thank you, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, The debate remains between us, because you assume that people with the same status and the same physical and health status among people with changed job skills, although this is not the case. That's what I'm asking you to consider. In addition, I must continue to stress that if you are dissatisfied with the fact that more people have had a job in the process, then it is you, to say the least, that shows your attitude towards the social or work world. What I can tell you is that the employment rate of disabled persons with disabilities was 18% in 2010 and increased to 43,6 percent today. So we were able to provide care to more people, and we were able to provide more people with jobs that enabled them not primarily to receive social care but to receive income. As far as the issue of a retrospective assessment of the degree of physical state change is concerned, your opinion concerns this, and, look, this is also a serious task from a medical point of view, so a legislative amendment can only be made with a preliminary preparation and consultation, and all stakeholders should be taken into account in this matter. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-66	I thank you, Deputy Prime Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Lóránt László Keresztes, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question:. Who takes responsibility, Prime Minister? It's an address. Because of the Prime Minister's absence, Mr. Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-10-12-67	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll wait for the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-12-68	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must respond at the hour of the forthcoming immediate questions. Dear Parliament, Krisztina Hohn, a representative of the LMP, wants to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question: It's an address. Due to his absence, Minister Bence Rétvári, Minister of State, was entitled to reply. I'm asking if you'd like to accept the recipient's identity.
u2020-10-12-69	I'll take it.
u2020-10-12-70	You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-12-71	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, After the adoption of a regulation that was dear to me at the end of the previous session, and the legislative amendment to facilitate adoption made several amendments, I was shocked to see the decree of 5 October in the Hungarian Gazette, which, in fact, led to the fact that if there were no married couple, a couple who wished to adopt or wish to adopt a child, it would be added to the national list, and if not there, it could be returned to the county list for a single adoptor. But who are those who are unique in Hungarian adoption practice? For example, those who do not really have a mate; those who do not live together; those who live together but are not married; those who live in a registered partnership; even those who start adoption as married, but let's say that their partner does not want to adopt the child, there is even the possibility of doing so under Hungarian law. I do not understand this kind of idea, because the Hungarian government condemns single parents. Unfortunately, this has to be said, because this is not only detrimental to adoption, but we have to think that about 45 percent of children who are not married or are not married will be treated in the same way. The goal of a child is to be loved as soon as possible and grow up safe and in love, and perhaps a wider family can provide sufficient support for that child, not only and only when talking about a couple of parents. That's exactly the point of the preliminary psych evaluation, which reveals that the people who apply are qualified to adopt.
u2020-10-12-72	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-73	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, Not taking your goodwill and good intentions on this issue, but please don't explain anything in this legislative amendment that isn't in it. What is the starting point of all adoption laws in Hungary, the former ones and the current ones? The best interests of children. Obviously, the best thing for the child is that his own biological parents cannot raise him or raise him for some reason, then those who adopt him should be a stable couple in a longer-term relationship, where both the mother and the father are raised, cared for and cared for by the adoptive father, the adoptive mother. I think it's quite clear that it's in the child's best interest that if he's not raised by his biological parents for some reason, it should be an adoptive mother and adoptive father who raises him. That's where the legislation comes from. It is important to consider what is more important for the child to find his new parents, his adoptive parents, or to have an adoptive mother and adoptive father for the child. Looking at the child's long-term interests, it's obviously good for him to be able to grow up stable in the long run with Mom, Dad. That is what this legislation says. If there is a married couple ten kilometres away who would love to have a child and could raise him as their own, then it should not be because of this ten - kilometers that this child will not have an adoptive father or adoptive mother when he grows up, because only one parent raises him. We have to start from the point of view of the child. Obviously, a lot of people want a child without a spouse, that's perfectly understandable, and the legislation gives them an opportunity, but it has to be approached from the child's point of view, and it's preferable for him to have a father and mother, more important than finding a family 30 or 50 kilometres away who can raise him. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-74	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. I will give the floor to the congresswoman in return.
u2020-10-12-75	If we're looking at the child's interests, and it's really important, then we also have to consider that time is on. So a child in Hungary today has a better chance of adopting a child under five years of age or three years of age and a healthy child free from disease. On the other hand, single people are willing to compromise more and adopt children who, unfortunately, do not usually need married couples. The partnership is also a relationship, and there is also a father and a mother, but the government and the minister do not consider them equal in this respect to be adopted. So the time goes on, the child gets older until this procedure is completed, while months go by, half a year or a year may pass, and the child has less and less chances, and unfortunately, in such cases, this child can only be adopted abroad, which is very regrettable, because Hungarian people would be better off growing up in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-12-76	Thank you. You have a rebuttal answer for Mr. Deputy Minister, please.
u2020-10-12-77	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear House, I will continue to stress that we regard all people as equals, and that we should only look at the child's aspects. You're absolutely right that speed is important. You have had very good suggestions, some of which have been incorporated into the package of laws that we have adopted here in Parliament, and which obviously has regulatory consequences, which is precisely trying to shorten the now unfortunately longer procedure to nine months, so that they can find adoptive parents as soon as possible for children. [[12.50]] As you have pointed out, Congresswoman, in the event that no married couple can adopt the child and thus raise him, of course, in accordance with previous legislation, if someone's personality is suitable for it, then he can adopt and raise the child as a single person. But the child's interest dictates that, as far as possible, a balanced, calm family, capable of raising the child, has good personality traits, where both father and mother can raise the child. This is in the common interest of all of us, as the legislation already provides. I am very pleased that you have had suggestions to speed up this process, and it is in our best interest to move in this direction as much as possible. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-12-78	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, Szabó Timea and Bence Tordai, representatives of the Dialogue, would like to ask the Prime Minister an immediate question: "What do you think, Prime Minister? It's an address. Because of his absence, Prime Minister Mihály Varga has given him the right to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Prime Minister for an answer in person.
u2020-10-12-79	We'll wait for Viktor Orbán. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-12-80	I would like to inform the Member that the Prime Minister must answer at the hour of the third immediate question. Dear Parliament, Bence Tordai, representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Minister of Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. The future-murdering Fidesz government is preparing to veto EU climate targets again? It's an address. Because of Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. János Schanda has authorised Mr. Secretary of State, Deputy Minister, to reply. I ask the Member, whether he accepts the person who is responding, or if he asks the Minister himself for an answer.
u2020-10-12-81	I'll take it, thank you.
u2020-10-12-82	You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-10-12-83	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister. Last summer, Viktor Orbán shamed Hungary when he vetoed the common EU climate targets, the objective of climate neutrality, and then shamed himself when he finally returned to this agreement. But it seems to have left a serious impression, because in this season's opening paper, he said that he would not bend over to the EU climate targets raised to absurdity, and it seems that the Fidesz soldiers in the EP also followed this guidance, as last week the European Parliament voted against setting an ambitious climate target, the goal of a 60% reduction. This, of course, and fortunately, left them in a minority, since the Greens, the Social Democrats and all responsible European leaders have passed this bill. It is now the European Council's turn to place their bets and make a responsible commitment that is really about the future of our children, but so far the future-killing policy that Fidesz has conducted, at least we are concerned that Viktor Orbán has not prepared another veto, the Fidesz government has not prepared another veto. After all, the fight against climate change is not just about the future, it is about future generations, it is here with us in everyday life. Double fruit prices are a direct consequence of climate change. The fact that it is now 600 forints a kilo of apples is because the frosts are early, because there is drought, and that is why forest fires and the weather have been destroyed all over the world, there are deadly heat waves all over the world, this summer we were just avoided, but the summer of 2020 has been the warmest ever measured summer in the history of the Earth since man measured it; so this climate change is on our necks, ruining our everyday lives. So I'd like to ask if they're finally trying to deal with a real problem. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: With immigration or what do you mean?]] Or they're just fighting the demons you invented. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Is immigration or the Crown Virus the demon?]] I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-10-12-84	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás János Schanda, Deputy Minister. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-85	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, The truth is, we can now get used to the fact that from week to week arrogant, insolent and rude speeches or questions [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: That's right!]] He's putting up here in Parliament, trying to hide that you're just talking, making Facebook posts, fake news, and fake news, but they're not actually giving you any support for any action, and they're not doing anything where you're in power. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Neither in Budapest!]] no meaningful steps. Honourable Congressman, If someone vetoed something, then you and your power-hungry left-wing friends were, by the way, because this national and civil government voted in favour of the bill and the parliamentary resolution which you submitted, among other things, and which includes Hungary becoming a climate-neutral country by 2050. You voted against this proposal, as we have already been accustomed to you, along with your left-wing friends. You didn't vote for it. You did not vote for it, honourable Member, that is the case. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Oh, oh, climate denier!]] to make Hungary a climate neutral country by 2050. That's the thing. You have not been able to make a single vote in Hungary [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Just talk!]] the defense should be more successful. Honourable Congressman, Let me also say a few sentences on the question you have raised. After all, the fact is that Europe has an agreed strategy, Hungary will also implement this strategy, and will be more successful than other countries in Europe. There has been a greater reduction in emissions in Hungary than in the vast majority of European countries, and indeed we say that it is not worth increasing these targets unilaterally until the other European countries have similar results. Honourable Congressman, Don't try to undermine the representation of the interests of the Hungarian people and Hungary! Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties. Why didn't you vote for him?]]
u2020-10-12-86	Thank you very much, Mr Deputy Minister, for your reply. Dear Parliament, In return, I give the floor to Congressman Bence of Tordai. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-87	Thank you. We're having a lot of fun, Deputy Minister. Indeed, we are working, we have developed the climate bill that you have worked so hard with, that you have been neutered, disemboweled, removed from it the truly ambitious goals. Yes, there was a 60-percent emission reduction for 2030, which you have withdrawn to a 40-percent emission reduction. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: You didn't support that either.]] It was your added value. Obviously, we will not support such a really past climate law with our vote, because it does not matter what the title of the law is, but what the content is. [[Dr. János Latorcai, vice-president of the Parliament, takes the chair.]] But speaking of action, the result of your actions is that we have achieved this 40% reduction by 2013. As a result of the work of the governments that preceded you and the collapse of the heavy industry and the economic crisis in 2008-9, we stood at exactly minus 40 percent in 2013, and since then emissions have increased in Hungary. Now, that's a unique achievement, but you can't be proud of it. Now we're only 32 percent below level 90. So if they continue like this, we'll soon have more greenhouse gas emissions than in 1900. So I want you to do a backwards look right now and start working. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-12-88	Thank you very much, Congressman. I warmly welcome my fellow Members and give my floor to the Secretary of State for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-89	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Let's just say you didn't vote for the 2050 climate neutrality targets. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Uncredited!]] Honourable Member, on the other hand, you say false sentences here in Parliament. In 2018 and 2019 the Hungarian economy grew by nearly 5 percent while emissions decreased. That is the case, honourable Member. Thirdly, who is speaking and who is acting, allow me to draw attention to the work of your mayor, who has so far declared an emergency and held climate meetings in connection with the climate crisis. This is the capital action. Everything else you boast about on Facebook is the development actually launched under the Mayorship of István Tarlós, as well as the project with the support of the government, such as noise reduction, drinking fountains, the development of the sewer network, or nearly a hundred garbage trucks and other target vehicles. You can brag, spread false news, make Facebook posts, but never act. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-12-90	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Mónika Dunai, representative of Fidesz, would like to ask the Minister, without a wallet for families, what tools does the Government use to help young people who are about to start a family? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Minister Róbert Zsigó has appointed Minister of State to respond to her absence. [[Mónika Dunai: I accept.]] Thank you very much. Congresswoman Mónika Dunai has the floor. Here you go. [[13.00]]
u2020-10-12-91	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The benefit of families introduced by the Fidesz-KDNP government, as well as the aim of the family protection action plan, is to encourage children more than ever before, to support the start-up and home creation of young people, to recognise the efforts of large families, to strike a balance between family life and employment, and to strengthen and modernise Hungarian small settlements. The current system of family tax relief is perhaps the most emblematic measure of the government, which will help young couples with children to an unprecedented extent. In 2010, Hungary was in the middle of a serious financial crisis. This crisis was not dealt with by the civilian government by means such as those of left-wing governments who passed all the burden on to Hungarian families. The Gyurcsány-Bajnai Association represented not the Hungarian families, but the banks and multinationals, the families were impoverished and transferred to foreign currency loans. All Hungarian families were hurt when they were deprived of regular child protection support and the family tax relief of parents with one and two children. In the case of children of three or more children, the family tax allowance was reduced from HUF 10 000 per child per month to HUF 4,000. The age limit of the family allowance was reduced from 23 to 20 years in order to name only a few. In the period of left-wing governments, the price of energy was increased fifteen times, the electricity was doubled and the gas was tripled. Dear Secretary of State, The establishment of a family support and home creation system in the last decade shows that Hungarian families can count on the support of the Hungarian government. However, in view of what has just been said, I would like to ask the honourable Secretary of State what additional tools are being used to help young couples think about starting a family. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-92	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Róbert Zsigó. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-10-12-93	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Since 2010 we have been working to improve the life situation of Hungarian families, to support childbearing and to help raise children. In ten years, we have increased the budget for supporting families by two and a half times, with which we are, by the way, at the forefront of Europe. In this work, the left, as you mentioned, did not help the Hungarian families, because when the former Gyurcsány-Bajnai governments were in power, they shortened their period by one year, they abolished the family tax reduction and the home creation program, and they took away the 13th month's pension, thus making the Hungarian families vulnerable. On the other hand, the civilian government, by standing next to families, supports families in their vision of the future. As a result of our actions to date, the home creation programme is one of the most successful government initiatives, since up to August 2020, 151 thousand families could use it for a total of HUF 476 billion. This means that we were able to help the housing of 632,000 Hungarians, young Hungarians. From 1 January 2021, we will continue to help families build homes. Anyone who buys a new home after January 2021 will only pay 5% VAT on the property. This means that the family can save HUF 6.5 million out of HUF 38 million for a newly built apartment for HUF 30 million. The same is 11 million forints for a HUF 50 million newly built real estate. In addition, as of 1 January 2021, families with at least one child will be fully exempt from paying VAT after buying a home with a CSOK, and the VAT will also be refunded by 5%. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-12-94	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A woman representing a one-minute rejoinder has the floor. Here you go, Congresswoman.
u2020-10-12-95	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, I accept your answer with thanks. I would like to stress to everyone that it can be seen not only by us Hungarians, but also by the Hungarian people throughout Europe and the world, that in the midst of the coronal virus epidemic, the Hungarian government not only wants to preserve the family support system, the measures taken so far within the family support system, but can expand it even further. This is why we have to thank the government, and we, for our part, from the Fidesz-KDNP fraction, have given all the support we have already given, and we want and will give you all the support we need in the future. Of course, this can only happen if Hungary has been pursuing a hard-core economic policy for ten years now, with the results of which we can use it to protect and further develop the family support system. Once again, thank you very much for your answer and I wish you good work for Mr Secretary of State, Minister and the entire Ministry. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-96	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr Róbert Zsigó is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-97	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much for your support so far, Congresswoman. Support for Hungarian families remains important for us. We are working on the biggest home creation programme in the past period, and we will announce the elements of this regularly in the coming period, and we are also planning the introduction of the 2nd Plan for Family Protection. We really think it is important that families should not be squeezed in the crisis caused by the coronal virus epidemic, but that we should help them, including by introducing a moratorium on credit repayment, so that the standard of living of families is not reduced, but that we can preserve this value and even increase it if possible. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and We're the ones who work for families. Thank you very much for your question, and thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-98	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Szászfalvi, representative of KDNP, wants to ask the Minister, without a wallet for families, an immediate question: "How does the government help families? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary, was entitled to reply because of the Minister's absence. [[On the signal of László Szászfalvi:]] Thank you so much for accepting. Mr László Szászfalvi has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-99	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, The Fidesz-KDNP government, which was established in 2010, made it clear at the beginning of its governance that families are Hungary's core values and value-creating units, as was later recorded in the Fundamental Law. This was, of course, not only a slogan, but also concrete actions in favour of those set out in the Fundamental Law. A new family support system has been set up to introduce and subsequently extend family tax incentives. The government has continuously expanded and extended the family support system according to Hungary's performance. It's no different now than the crisis caused by the corona virus. At the time of the emergency, the first measures were the introduction of a credit moratorium, which protected the housing and home of hundreds of thousands of families during the crisis caused by the corona virus. Recently, the credit moratorium was extended until the middle of next year. Dear Secretary of State, It is not just measures, it is an approach that is the basis of government thinking. The KDNP faction therefore welcomes the Prime Minister's announcement last week that Minister Katalin Novák presented the pillars of a new home creation programme to the government. One element of this is the five percent VAT on apartments already accepted by the Cabinet. Dear Secretary of State, As regards the measures announced, I ask how the introduction of a 5% VAT helps families to get home, when they can benefit from this discount, and how this discount can be integrated into the CSOK system. I look forward to your reply, Secretary of State. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-100	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Secretary Robert Zsigó. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-12-101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, as you pointed out, in 2010, after the change of government, there was a family-friendly turnaround in Hungary. This was also necessary because left-wing governments between 2002 and 2010 had a more important interest in banks and multinational companies than in helping families, so they made families vulnerable by the means and measures that we have already listed here, by shortening their legal time by one year, by taking away their 13th month pension and ending the home-building programme. [[13.10]] It has been important for Hungary in the last ten years, since 2010, to strengthen families so that they can have as many children as possible, as many families as possible. It was a symbolic measure that, after the change of government in 2010, it was among our first measures to restore the duration of the child to three years and to increase the system of family tax relief. And so far, support schemes for home creation are perhaps one of the most successful measures. Indeed, as I have just said or answered the question of the Member, we will help the Hungarian families with further measures from 1 January 2021. From January 2021, anyone buying a newly built apartment will be obliged to pay the 5% VAT, and families with at least one child will be fully exempt from paying VAT after buying a home with a CSOK. With just one sentence, I refer back to what we have achieved in the last ten years: as a result of our actions, the childbearing spirit has increased by more than 20 percent in Hungary since 2011, the number of marriages is at a peak of 40 years, the number of divorces has not been as low in 60 years as they are now, and the number of abortions has decreased by 33.5 percent. I think that together we have achieved a lot of results for families, but we still have a lot to do, and we are still asking for your help. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman László Szászfalvi a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-103	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Thank you very much for your reply. It also showed that the family support system that we have established and rebuilt since 2010 has been widened, almost unique in the world, in a unique Europe. This family support system already has a wide range of tools, which, I think, has radically changed the attitude of the Hungarian state and the Hungarian government to families, thus helping those who want to have children to help and support families to avoid this being an economic or financial issue for them. KDNP is the party of families, which is why this family support system is of great importance to us, which is why we have so far supported these efforts by the government, and we will, of course, continue to support this family support system as stable and broad as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-104	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Róbert Zsigó is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-105	Thank you very much. Indeed, as you have said, it is exemplary in Europe and not we say so, but our European partners are the family support system that we have introduced since 2010. The government's goal is to make it easier to start a family, have children and raise children in Hungary. Since 2010, we have increased the amount of support for families by two and a half times, helping families to get home with a new home creation programme, launching a family protection action plan, and trying to take all measures to maintain the standard of living of families, or, if possible, to increase during the epidemic period, also in the crisis caused by the epidemic period. Thank you so much for your help. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-106	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Gergely Farkas, an independent Member, wishes to ask the Minister without a wallet in charge of the families an immediate question: what do you advise them, Madam Minister? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr Róbert Zsigó was entitled to reply. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, under the derogation from the adopted house rule, if you do not accept the person of the responding person, the immediate question should be considered withdrawn in the case of independent Members. That's exactly why we had a problem the other day, which is why I apologize to you. Congressman Gergely Farkas has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-107	Thank you very much. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, As a result of the previous two government inquiries, we have heard who has helped everyone in recent years; I would like to draw attention now to those who have not been helped, and I would also like to take this opportunity to explain to you the situation of two average Hungarian young people, and I would like to ask you to advise them on what to do in order to get ahead. Look at Klári, 23 years old, working as a salesman in a tobacco store, earning HUF 230,000 net. Since it is rural, it rents a small room in Budapest, pays 85 thousand forints, buys its BKV lease, pays its phone bill, visits its rural family twice a month. About 90,000 forints a month, you have to keep yourself from it, which will hardly be left by the end of the month, without any prospect of saving. My own apartment? It's just a dream to him. The other young David, 26 years old, works as an administrator at a rural company in his city, receives a net HUF 166 thousand. He wants to live apart from his parents, but he can't do it for financial reasons. At home he gives 60,000 forints a month in food, pays his phone bill, sometimes buys clothes, sometimes goes out with friends, leaves about 30,000 forints a month. His biggest dream is to leave the Mamahotel, but this seems unattainable to him, since saving 30 thousand forints a month for a 15 million-dollar house is a total of 500 months, i.e. a fleeting 41 years. Dear Secretary of State, The two young people have a few more in common: because of the foreign exchange crisis and other bad experiences, they do not want to be indebted at the beginning of their own lives, and they are far from starting a family, so the CSOK or the baby shower is not an option for them. I have outlined two specific cases, but there are tens of thousands of young people in the same situation, since the average salary of those under 25 is HUF 189 thousand, which, according to the KSH, cannot be put aside with such rent prices or food prices, or young people are not in a 20-year-old position today, nor is it certain that every young person wants three children. What do you advise them, my dear Secretary of State?
u2020-10-12-108	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Mr Róbert Zsigó, State Secretary. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-12-109	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Thank you very much for asking. We all know, we remember, in 2010, we took over a country near bankruptcy, in which the budget was also in a vulnerable position, and the Hungarian families were also in a vulnerable position. Since then, together with Hungarian people, we have been trying to fix the country, the economy, help families, and we are doing everything we can to help everyone, including young people. In order to reduce the impact of the epidemic, by strengthening the financial security of young people, the Government decided that the Student Credit Centre had announced a credit moratorium to all its customers on outstanding student loan and interest debt until 31 December 2020 and introduced the Free Use Student Loan Plus. In addition, the government extended its support for the CEAS exam. As is well known to you, from June 1, 2018, the state will pay the KRESZ exam fee to young people under the age of 20 for a value of HUF 25,000, this discount has now been extended. The government also extended the support for the language exam. As is known, as of January 1, 2018, the state will pay the fee for the language exam for young people under the age of 35, currently worth 40 250 HUF. The language examination support was used by 86 360 young people until 31 August 2020 and has increased since then. On 31 August 2020 61 645 young people had used the KRESZ examination support and since then this number has increased. If you remember, Ferenc Gyurcsány used to say that he literally told the young people that it was possible to leave this country. We have done everything we have done in the past period, and we will also do in the subsequent period, to support young people, so that they can start a family, so that they can continue to learn and thrive in life. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-110	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Gergely Farkas. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-111	Dear Secretary of State, I have outlined two specific situations in life, young people who want to move forward, but their current opportunities do not allow it. What's your answer to that? Ferenc Gyurcsány, and student loan. Yes, he offers young people credit while I say that young people do not want to be indebted, they do not want to start their own lives with debt. And what he can say to the government is that they can take a HUF 20,000 KRESZ exam free of charge, and a 30 thousand HUF language exam, which is very important, but, uh, I'm sorry, they won't be buying property, house, or they won't grow out of it. The problem is that Ferenc Gyurcsány actually said that you can go, but you do not say that, only by doing so will you achieve that young people see no other solution than to migrate. It is no coincidence that hundreds of thousands of young people have left the country recently, simply because they cannot get ahead in Hungary. The point of my question was that you always stress how many people you help, and indeed, it is very good that you help large families, but at the same time leave a lot of young people on the side of the road. Please take care of them. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Because if these people leave Hungary, it will be a huge tragedy. [[13.20]]
u2020-10-12-112	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-113	Thank you, Congressman. I'm sorry you didn't listen to my answer. I was just telling you and the Parliament that we're trying to help everyone. We have also helped young people in recent times. The government is constantly expanding the range of grants and opportunities that help young people to learn, start a family, build a home, learn a language and find their place. We do this because we think that the more opportunities we create for young people, the more opportunities they can take, the more chances they have of finding jobs, starting a family, and creating a home. [[László Varju: Where?]] I think that this policy, which has been conducted by the civilian government since 2010, is a family-friendly turn of events that is trying to support young people, family and elderly people, is quite different from what was here before 2010, when all the opportunities were taken away from, among other things, young people. [[László Varju: They just took it!]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-12-114	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 13:21. I would remind you that, under the derogation from the adopted house rule, the Prime Minister and the Minister are not obliged to answer the immediate questions in person during the discussion of immediate questions after 60 minutes. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! MEPs Tamás Csányi and György László Lukács, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister of Human Resources an immediate question:. What do you think about this, Minister? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Bence Rétvári was entitled to reply. [[For signal:]] It's time for Congressman Tamás Csányi. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-12-115	Thank you very much. We'll wait for Minister.
u2020-10-12-116	We can't, Congressman. We're past that time. [[Defiance from the Fidesz ranks.]] I just told you about the house regulations. You have a duty to accept that.
u2020-10-12-117	Then we'll take it back. Thank you very much. [[Defiance from the Fidesz ranks. Dr. Bence of Rétvári: This has never happened before! They looked me in the eye and pulled me back! They're scared of me! They're scared of my mask. It's got a bunk train on it.]]
u2020-10-12-118	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Members of Mr Róbert Dudás and Tibor Nunkovics, representatives of Jobbik, want to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question: Why is the Government playing alongside the country's energy security with the lives and future of thousands of Matra families? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council, Because of his absence, Minister Tamás Schanda has given him the right to reply. Congressman Róbert Hondas has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-119	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, My first speech in Parliament was also related to the Mátra Power Plant, which, in addition to the importance of the power plant, its role as a national economy and nation strategy, comes from, among other things, living there, so that I know the lives, problems, problems and situations of the people living in Mátra, and I also know how important the Mátra Power Plant plays in the lives of the workers and their families there. Now I would like to outline very briefly the events of the last three years, unfortunately I can only do so in a sketch. Three years ago, an individual named Lőrinc Mészáros bought the Mátra Power Plant together with a Czech company for HUF 5.9 billion. At that time the Hungarian State said that it was not worth it, so the Hungarian State does not buy it. Barely four days have passed, Czechs have been paid, four-fold profits have been made, perhaps the business of the century or millennia has been made by Czech companies because Mészáros said that the Czechs wanted to shut down the power plant, and he won't let that happen. This will have an important role to play later on. Last December, the transaction in which the Hungarian State bought the Mátra Power Plant was closed, not for 5.9 billion HUF, but for 17.4 billion HUF. If we consider all the amounts, the recapitalisation and other attractive costs, then we are at HUF 75 billion. With sober logic, it is incomprehensible why the state did not buy it three years before, and why it had to be allowed to be robbed by a thief. And how did Lőrinc Mészáros explain, i.e. how did Viktor Orbán explain I confused the two persons that they should be bought by the Hungarian State? He explained that Lawrence Ripper wants to shut down the power plant, threaten the government. That's what the Prime Minister said ten months ago. Let's be honest, how lifelike is this? He's a very funny guy, this Lawrence. Less than a year later, the President of the Republic says that the power plant must be closed. Secretary of State, the Mátra Force must be rescued and modernised, because it is not only a company of national strategic importance, but it provides the livelihood of more than two thousand workers. What does the government do to this? [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-12-120	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer is addressed to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-12-121	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, Do you know who to save the Matra Force from? From you. From you and your friends on the left, because they're the ones who want to shut down this power plant, and they're the ones who want to take the work of the people who work there. Honourable Congressman, My request is that we agree on some fundamental issues. On the one hand, let us agree that the power plant currently plays a key role in the supply of electricity in Hungary, as it accounts for 16% of our electricity production. It is indeed an important employer, a company, a company that provides the livelihood of thousands of people in Hungary, not only in the power plant, but also in related companies. These people's jobs must be protected, and we will protect them. Your left-wing friends are the ones who keep attacking the power plant and trying to shut it down. Talk to them. At least for once, there should be some use in turning Jobbik's politics around completely and getting together with the left. For once, make some sense of this and convince them not to keep attacking the Matra Force. Honourable Congressman, And the President of the Republic didn't say that this power plant had to be shut down. He said we need to stop using coal fire, remodel the power plant, and modernise it. That is exactly what we are doing, honourable Member. If you read it and once took the trouble to look at government documents, strategies, climate and nature conservation action plans, you would find exactly this in it, that we want to build on this power plant, preserve state-owned Hungary's lignite wealth, maintain it as a nation-wide strategic asset, and, moreover, launch unprecedented developments in the region and the power plant to modernise it and make it environmentally friendly. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-12-122	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Róbert Dudás. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of State has never set the bar high for his replies, but we have also managed to overcome this. Please stop messing around with the country's energy security and the livelihood of over 2,000 families. Think of how the more than two thousand workers now feel, who, by the way, although you are saying that they are going to save their jobs, the President of the Republic is not likely to say that they will close, that this job will disappear. This isn't a game! The Mátra Power Plant must be modernised. We shouldn't have let the Prime Minister's stooge rob him for three years. They're spending $75 billion instead of 5.9 billion. They spent all the money that the previous German owner had accumulated in order to make the mandatory modernisation possible. What you're doing right now is cheating treatment. Unfaithful treatment of the country, unfaithful treatment of the power plant, unfaithful treatment of the workers of the Mátra Power Plant, against everyone. Please make sure that you do everything you can to save the power plant, because it's a strategic plant. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-12-124	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder is also due to Mr. Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-125	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, You can repeat stupid lies in Parliament, but it doesn't make any sense. You can spread false news in Parliament, you can use your representatives' voices to talk nonsense [[There's a grumble in Jobbik's ranks.]] It just doesn't make any sense. Honourable Congressman, If you had listened to my answer, you would know precisely that I was talking about modernising this power plant, transforming it into a environmentally friendly one, and implementing improvements in terms of climate protection by protecting the workplace of the Hungarian people working there. [[13.30]] Honourable Congressman, That's not just me, that's what the President of the Republic said. The fact that you are a liar, you are producing fake news, and by the way, you are using the public of the Parliament to disturb Hungarian people and the workers working in the Mátra Power Plant is your responsibility. But don't do this, Your Honour. We will transform this power plant and basically make improvements. There will be a solar power plant here, there will be a combined gas block, and there will be a long list of developments. Congressman, support this and don't attack. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-126	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély, representative of the MSZP, wants to ask the Minister for Innovation and Technology an immediate question:. What is happening here? It's an address. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Because of his absence, Minister Tamás Schanda has given him the right to reply. Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members, Ladies and gentlemen of the State Secretary. On 20 November 2018, the gas ignited in the gas reservoir in Nagyhegyes. The problem was caused by a faulty wire, and for more than nine hours the fire raged between Nagyhegyes and Hajduszoboszlo. Here, even the road had to be blocked for several hours, and more than 35 firefighters put out the fire. On 18 November 2019 there was a gas explosion at dawn in Bishop's Lady. A subterranean wire went off a few hundred meters from the apartments. There was a fire here for several hours. The Bishop's Lady is 16 kilometers away from us, and even there she created a terrible fear in the population, a terrible sound of this gas explosion and the fire itself. Then last week, October 5, 2020 there was another gas explosion in the gas reservoir in Nagyhegyes, just 800 metres from the houses. Speaking to the workers and those who know these areas, they say it's because of the maintenance that's been cancelled that's caused by these explosions and the lack of expertise. Secretary of State, calm me down. You can tell the public or politicians that this has only been three explosions in two years, but this has happened twice in a county, and in Nagyhegyes, where MOL is based, in recent years. Mr. Secretary. Tell me you have information about what happened last week in Nagyhegyesen, and this is not going to be systemic, and we are not talking about a systemic flaw that the wires are so old that they didn't renovate these wires. I think it's more important than that, so I want you to pay attention to whether the population is in danger or not. I look forward to your reply, Mr. Secretary.
u2020-10-12-128	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. I give the floor to Secretary of State Tamás Schanda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-12-129	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I also think it is an important issue; it is an issue that should not be raised as a political issue. And shouldn't you be giving the immediate question what's going on? If you ask the question properly, I can answer it. I can also promise you now that I will look into what you have told me. But as a Member, you have the opportunity to take your task seriously and ask a substantive question and raise a substantive question. Then we can answer it. But if you deliberately hide the real question, if you deliberately do not share the information, it is very difficult to answer. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and I represent the Ministry of Innovation and Technology. This ministry is responsible for energy security, energy supply, climate policy, higher education, vocational training, research, development, EU funds, domestic development resources, digitalisation, and I think transport could still be listed and for what areas it is responsible for. There are thousands of people working in the Ministry. I believe that you think that I can answer all the questions, if you don't share them with us, but if you take your work seriously and don't want to make politics out of professional matters, if you're actually worried about the cases you're bringing to Parliament, then don't you write here what's going on? He's asking a real question, and then I'll give you real answers. Congresswoman! Do not turn such important questions into politics, but take your assignment seriously, ask real questions, and then we will give you real answers. We don't need fake news and communication activities, we need meaningful work. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-130	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congresswoman Ildikó Bangóné Borbély. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-131	Well, if you're in the mood for a lecture, Mr. Secretary, then let's continue in such a instructive mood. Mr. Secretary. The hour of immediate questioning is such a genre, you don't have to give it up in advance. And the other, Mr. Secretary, is that in the last ten years or just I've been saying, since I've been a congressman, how many times in the last six years have you answered one question, or just here today? Well, are we being lectured? ! Well, Secretary of State, if you took your work as Secretary of State seriously, you would answer the question that my better fellow Member asked me about the Mátra Power Plant. He didn't answer! Mr. Secretary. I can only hope that on such an important issue, with three serious gas explosions in Hungary over the last two years, you would not have to look for the answer here, but you would have come here, and you would know at all that there was a gas explosion at the MOL site again last week, where two years ago, or, say, a year ago, in Bishop's Lady, where a man-wide gas pipeline exploded. Mr. Secretary. Take your work more seriously, and I'll ask you to do your job in Parliament and finally give us a credible answer after six years. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-10-12-132	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Mr. Secretary of State Tamás Schanda has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-133	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, In order to preserve the dignity of the Parliament, I do not wish to answer to a representative woman. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-134	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, I ask all of you to try, as far as possible, to curb your anger and try to be undisturbed, bearing in mind professionalism, to ask questions worthy of politicians and politicians in this House. Dear Parliament, Member László Varju, a representative of DK, wants to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question: "A decade lost." Honourable Congressman, Minister Tállai has appointed Secretary of State to respond to his absence. Mr László Varju has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-135	Thank you very much. I trust you will not continue in this teaching style, Mr. Secretary. I trust that the calmness of the Ministry of Finance will give you the opportunity, even if I have to remind you that when they took over ten years ago, they spoke with extreme horror that, following the crisis that took place in the last three years, public debt rose to 80%. This was considered to be the main problem of the economy at the time, even in their Fundamental Law the aim of reducing this to half the total national product. In a speech before the agenda, your Prime Minister noted that we should thank the good Lord for sitting here without punishment, I mean us. Man, do you understand? ! He told the speaker, the speaker, of himself. Well, let's see where we stand. At the end of July... the deficit may reach 10 percent of what was originally planned by the end of the year. The European Commission's prognosis puts the economic downturn at 7 percent. All in all, Fitch Ratings is a 77.3 percent debt by the end of this year, which is really not far from 80 percent, which you've been living as a real apocalypse for ten years. And I didn't tell you about the prognosis of the leading European credit rating agency, the Scope Ratings, which is an 80% debt in case of an optimistic scenario, because its pessimistic version already says 90 percent. But let's just stick to the Fitch forecast. As at the end of last year, the debt ratio was 66.3 percent, so it means that while you threatened us with hardly a covert prison, you managed to increase it by 12 points in one year. Man, do you understand? ! I could quote the Prime Minister here. Then tell me, Mr. Secretary of State, what you intend to do to ensure that the debt is below the target of 50 percent. Thank you very much. [[13.40]]
u2020-10-12-136	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to Congressman András Tállai, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-12-137	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Parliament, Honourable Congressman, There were other problems there when we took over governance in 2010. If you allow it, the public debt was also a big problem that you brought it up below 80 per cent and took it over just over 50 per cent of GDP; but this may have been a bigger problem for foreign exchange creditors, hundreds of thousands of families affected millions of people that they could not repay. You did this, you brought it in to pay off the Hungarian families. I could tell you about the issue of the reduction of the rent and the issue of the high bills, which the government came to in the first cycle, the impact of which is still felt in the lives of Hungarian families. Or I could tell you the more than 12 percent unemployment that over 600,000 people didn't have jobs. In 2010, the government came to this with economic development aid and the effective development of the public employment system at the state level. With regard to the issue of public debt, the government's objective was clear: to reduce public debt; to reduce the deficit; and to reduce the level of public debt. The government is able to deliver a very serious result in reducing public debt, as it has brought it below 70 percent, with a debt ratio of 66 percent compared to GDP already. This was recognised at European, European Union level, as the performance of the Hungarian economy, including the reduction of public debt, the reduction of the budget deficit, the increase in GDP, was and is still at the forefront of Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-12-138	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman László Varju, please.
u2020-10-12-139	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, You are well aware that the trap of foreign exchange credentialers was produced by the Hungarian National Bank led by Zsigmond Járai, whom you preferred. Then instead of helping people by the way, they did one thing: their friends were rescued from the situation and then, when they could have helped people, they didn't give the way at the original rate, but at a much higher rate. This is what you have produced in this situation. So you can twist the numbers, Mr. Secretary, these are stubborn things. Government debt has only increased in your ten years, which is why the last ten years have been virtually wasted. György Matolcsy, your leading economic strategist, was right a long time ago that traditional economic textbooks can be thrown away safely, but you forgot one thing: to read it in front of him. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-12-140	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder for the Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-141	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, The issue of foreign currency credit cannot be blamed on anything else, because the government, the majority of Parliament, you have not made any laws or laws to protect Hungarian citizens; not only have they not brought, but they have also encouraged them by failing to regulate, by stimulating banks. Don't blame this on anyone else. The fact that nearly two million people have been brought into this, a treaty of hopelessness, is your doing and your sin. In terms of foreign exchange credit, however, its exposure was completely abolished by the Hungarian State, as instead of foreign exchange loans, the Hungarian population now finances a significant part of the government debt by means of the sovereign debt plus. The reduction of public debt is still an objective, but you should know that there is a crisis. In times of crisis, macro numbers are transformed [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] How would we fund the defense, how would we fund the resuscitation of the economy? Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-12-142	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Antal Csárdi, representative of the LMP, wishes to ask the Minister of Finance an immediate question:. Should social policy appear in the tax system? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Because of the Minister's absence, Mr András Tállai has given the Secretary of State the right to reply. Congressman Antal Csárdi has the floor.
u2020-10-12-143	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I think you should know, and I hope you know, that in today's Hungary during this epidemic or the economic situation caused by the epidemic, hundreds of thousands of families are forced to live on less income than they had to live on before the outbreak. And I think you should be aware of the fact that it makes it difficult for hundreds of thousands of families to buy everyday basic food in stores or in the market. And I think that we have fought many times to ensure that the Hungarian government finally displays a social policy in its tax system and reduces the VAT on basic foods to 5%. I'm guessing it's not a coincidence that the VAT on drugs is 5 percent. After all, we want to make it as easily accessible as possible as possible to a wider circle; I think it is no coincidence that the Braille tablet, the Braille machine, has a VAT of 5%, because I think that a social policy image should be hidden behind it. That is why I ask the Honourable Secretary of State: how many families do you think need affordable basic foods? How many families do you think need affordable restaurants, or how many families do you think need new homes? I'd like a number answer. Also a final question: when does the Hungarian government intend to demonstrate any social policy objectives, such as in the VAT system, in the VAT law? Thank you very much.
u2020-10-12-144	Thank you very much, Congressman. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, András Tállai. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-12-145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Congressman, Let us be clear, however, that in your tax programme, which was presented to the voters in 2018, they wanted to introduce a multi-key personal income tax system, a number of new taxes, corporate tax, as they would like to re-create it as two-key; green tax and many new taxes. This does not go well with what you regularly say here in Parliament, and I respect that you have to reduce the VAT on something, you never tell me what, but the VAT on something. But before we continue to make the most of it, to include in the tax system a reduction in VAT on all goods and services, I would like to say that since 2010, the VAT on several basic foods has been reduced. You should know that. The VAT on live animals, poultry, meat, fish, eggs, milk has been reduced to 5%. The VAT on restaurant services has also decreased. And it also doesn't suit you, but I must say that you or your fellow parties have voted every year to reduce the VAT on some product or service, and you have never voted for it here in Parliament. It's political duplicity, what you're doing. You obviously think it's popular among people that you stand up, you say every week that you have to cut down VAT, but you don't tell me why you have to cut your VAT, while otherwise a lot of products have their VAT reduced; otherwise, when you have to vote on it, you don't vote on it in Parliament. For what reason, only you know. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-10-12-146	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder from Congressman Csárdi. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-147	Thank you very much for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, I think you're an educated, excellent secretary of state. [[Applause from the pro-government benches.]] So don't act like you're at the level of a junior high school kid who's having trouble understanding texts. It's not insulting to me. It's insulting to the voters. On basic foods, I think you can tell us which products belong here: for example, dairy products, which tax 27%, such as vegetables, such as fruit; they all pay 27 percent. [[13.50]] You didn't answer any of my questions, I hope, not because you didn't understand the question. So I'm gonna repeat the question again and try to focus on the question and the answer to that question. How many families need basic food, and how many families need cheap restaurants? This number pair, if we put it side by side, we'll find out which one should be 5%. Thank you very much. [[Z. Carpathian Dániel and Kocsis-Cake Olivio applaud.]]
u2020-10-12-148	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder, Mr. András Tállai, Secretary of State. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-149	Honourable Congressman, You asked me a question, and I'll ask you a question, too, if you don't mind. [[Antal Csárdi: No! It's your job to answer the question, Mr. Secretary. The president's ringing the bell.]] Why hasn't a single VAT reduction proposal been voted in Parliament since 2012? What is the reason for this? Why didn't you vote for a reduction in the VAT on milk, eggs, or poultrymeat? Why didn't you vote for it? You can't answer that! You can't answer that. Of course, it is important to reduce VAT, but it is much more important to increase people's income, to increase pensions properly, to increase wages. Wages in Hungary increased by 10 percent in the first half of 2020. I think that this is a very good ratio in this crisis. And, by the way, consumption is constantly increasing despite the crisis. These figures show that the government is on the right track in terms of economic policy and tax policy. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-12-150	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio, a representative of the Dialogue, wants to ask the Prime Minister's Minister's Office an immediate question: what is going on here? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán granted the right to reply. Congressman Cake Olivio has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-151	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, I'd like to ask you about my Biodo. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Why not Gergely Christmas? You should ask the owner.]] The new metropolitan city leadership took on a heavy burden with Biodo from the previous city leadership and from the government. As we have seen in government investments, the price has become multiple of the original plans. The estimated total cost was still 16 billion in 2014, then 25 billion in 15 and 40 billion in 2017 and 64 billion at the end of 2019. The new city leadership, I think, has acted responsibly and has examined what can be done with my Biodo, we have examined what can be done with this difficult situation. The fact is that, according to the report, this project could be completed from 16.4 billion. By the way, that's 10 billion less than the calculations we've had. Of these six billion can be found in the capital as a support, with the non-building of the Hermina garage, HUF 5.7 billion can be added to the project, and the main result of the report would be an additional 5 billion by 2024. It is proposed that this project should be completed, because its dismantling would mean tens of billions, and it is not good to have a torso in the middle of Budapest. So, here's the 5 billion forints question to the Secretary of State about what the government is planning to do with my Biodo and to pay the 5 billion forints by 2024 that are needed to finish Biodom, my Biodo will stand up and start working. I'm waiting for your answer.
u2020-10-12-152	Thank you very much, Congressman. As I said, we will hear the answer from State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Secretary of State. You have the floor.
u2020-10-12-153	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, And I would like to ask you: if you have discussed this with your party partner, the elected mayor of Budapest, Gergely Christmas, what answers have you given to this question? The Biodom project is currently the project of the Municipality of Budapest. The Government has already supported the Biodom project, not only once it has given it budget support, but has given it budget support in several cases. Moreover, in the truly political sense, I recognise that you are in a tight position to be responsible for the project and that you are apparently unable to cope with the completion of the project by keeping the appropriate cost elements within the deadline, who, by the way, is not necessarily ideologically related to the right but rather to your political family. And by the way, if Biodomot is to be completed by Budapest capital, it is worth transferring funds from the Budapest capital's account, which could be used to complete the Biodom project several times, as well as the investments in the capital, in which they regularly ask for additional and additional resources from time to time. But not to conclude the debate with this, the Council of Metropolitan Public Developments is the forum where the representatives of the capital and government can discuss these development issues. The Council of Metropolitan Public Developments has not been left behind because of us in the last few months, it was Gergely Christmas who did not wish to discuss these matters. We hope that the dialogue will resume and we hope that a constructive solution will be reached. But once again, the resources are in the account, and they are available, and the capital could decide without any special government help. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-12-154	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman Kocsis-Cake Olivio in return. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-155	Thank you for the floor. Well, let's have a man on his feet who'll come out of that answer. The question was clear, but I hope that we will have a concrete answer at the council then. And then, as far as the Secretary of State's comments are concerned, who is responsible? Well, it's gonna be hard to put this on the new city leadership, I know that you're great at this, that your mistakes are welcome to be passed on to someone else. That is why it is responsible because it was a government investment, and government investment is currently primarily the government, and secondly, the previous leadership in the capital, so don't bring any responsibility here on this matter. But that wasn't what my question was about, so I pushed it towards the solution. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Budapest is not a rich city state, such as Monaco or the Vatican. For example, Budapest's funds are tied to developments, so these billions that you want to spend all the time are already spent, and a responsible city administration will not spend these funds, especially not on an investment that is not his responsibility, but primarily on the government and the previous city administration. So I trust that the government will take responsibility for this, and then at the latest on the council, it will support the conclusion of Biodomo. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-12-156	Thank you very much, Congressman. A one-minute rejoinder from the Secretary of State. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-12-157	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, I'm sorry I've been trying to tell you too many things for two minutes, so I'm just gonna take a minute to figure out what's going on. There is a source in Budapest's account for the completion of Biodom; otherwise, according to all indicators, Budapest is the richest settlement in the country. There's a plan to finish; that's point 2. Point 3: The zoo is in Budapest's capital, not the government's. 4. Despite the fact that we have repeatedly provided additional resources, we are willing to negotiate if you are willing to sit down and not just text through Facebook comments. So I'll see you at the negotiating table. Thank you very much for the floor. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-10-12-158	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Member László Böröcz, representative of Fidesz, wishes to ask the Minister of Justice an immediate question:. What is payment? It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to the absence of Minister, Mr Pál Völner has appointed Minister of State to answer, and therefore Mr László Böröcz has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-159	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Secretary of State, Ladies and gentlemen, We recently heard a recording of Momentum's MEP saying that I spoke to Věra Jourova on the phone every three days. Many informal phone calls and conversations have taken place not only with them, but also with the new Sargentini, Gwendoline Delbos, who will carry on the Hungarian question..The thing is also surprising because it has not even been two weeks since Anna Donáth, who is on the record, in a public debate with Minister Judit Varga, simply denied that she would have been regularly informally consulted with Věra Jourova, Vice-President of the Commission on the Hungarian rule of law. [[14.00]] It is now quite obvious that Jourová has compiled this report, among other things, from the material of Hungarian left-wing politicians and 11 civil society organisations that have received financial support from the Open Society Foundation linked to György Soros in recent years. It is clear that the left-wing youth organisation, also funded by Soros, plays a direct role in the attacks on Hungary abroad. Dear Secretary of State, The blind can see that if Momentum has to choose between the interests of Hungary and the Soros network, it is openly on its side. But it is no wonder that if we recall their first political action, it was already about the fact that France was helped against Hungary in the competition for the Olympics. Even then, they were exposed, since soon it was discovered that they had received campaign training from the French governing parties as a gift. So we can't have illusions about their motivation. So the question is right: what does Ferenc Gyurcsány's youth organization, Momentum, get paid for attacking his country in Brussels this time? Thank you. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-160	Thank you very much, Congressman. We will hear the answer from State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-12-161	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, We can safely say that this year the biggest stain on the history of our 30-year-old democracy is the autumn speech of Ferenc Gyurcsány. It is true that it has been 14 years, but something has not changed since your autumn: the left is still using these tools. This time, it is not Ferenc Gyurcsány who leaked another shameful recording, but this time an exclusive recording of the MEP Anna Donáth's enthusiastic Autumn student, Anna Donáth, shows that the left-wing youth organization funded by Soros is working closely with Soros' allies, who are constantly attacking Hungary. In the debate with Minister Judit Varga, Anna Donáth declared in front of a country that she had not agreed with Věra Jourova. However, the leaked footage completely undermines the remaining credibility of the momentary MEP, and also issues a certificate of Věra Jourova, who, on Friday, denied in an interview with a Czech newspaper that he had directly consulted Hungarian opposition politicians in connection with the State of Law Report. Ladies and gentlemen, What can we expect from a person who, together with the Hungarian people, worked to put the lives of as few people as possible at risk as possible and to lose as few jobs as possible, while in Brussels and Budapest they represent the interests of Brussels, spreading false news against the Hungarian government's emergency decisions? Ladies and gentlemen, Thus, the Hungarian opposition attacked the Crown Virus Act adopted in March, which allowed the government to take the decisions necessary for the control of the epidemic by means of a decree. During yesterday's press release, the MEP Anna Donáth admitted that it was a lie, which was distributed, and that the Hungarian Parliament actually worked. Nevertheless, in the West, we were constantly and contraryly slandered by reality. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-162	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to Congressman László Böröcz for a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-163	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, I think that if someone is involved in politics or public life, they are contracted to represent the interests of the Hungarian people both here and abroad. On the other hand, Momentum has repeatedly demonstrated that it refuses to support the Hungarians today and refuses to support Hungary in this fight either on the issue of Hungarians or on the protection of the interests of Hungarian citizens. [[Gergely Harvesto: But you are brave to discuss it here among yourselves!]] The truth is that Anna Donáth's facebook explanation is somewhat ironic, since she says that it is perfectly natural that she, for example, negotiates and engages in discussions with Mrs Jourová as a Member of the European Parliament. But the literal question in this debate was that he had ever agreed with Jourova on rule of law matters, and he said that they had not agreed on why we would have discussed it. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-164	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Secretary of State, I would just like to point out to Mr Arato as the notary of the Parliament that anyone who has such a decisive voice can be identified through the mask. So I ask you, Congressman, to refrain from yelling at me, because if you speak, it is absolutely clear to me. [[Defiance.]] I give the floor to State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, From what has been said, it is clear by what means the Hungarian Left operates. Recording proves Anna Donáth's activity and that they have deceived even their outside families, who have engaged in a false campaign. They've found your new Wunderwaffe, aren't they, riding on the rule of law report? But you don't have to go far, András Fekete-Győr, President of the Momentum said yesterday that there was an abuse, going from Budapest to the countryside, what did you see in the polling district? There were people who said they were going to work, to harvest, in the fall. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: Harvesting in the fall?!]] This must be an election abuse. And I was voted down early in the morning, which is completely unheard of and incomprehensible. Now, as long as this is your relationship with reality, I think it's safe to do the job and rely on the sanity and judgment of the people, as yesterday proved, and György Soros can be in the background, they can't be effective against it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-166	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Congressman Imre Vejkey, representative of KDNP, wishes to ask the Minister of State at the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question: It's an address. Honourable Congressman, Due to Mr. Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán granted the right to reply. I ask that your question be answered accordingly. Congressman Imre Vejkey has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-167	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State and less respected Momentum! Judas of Ischirot received 30 pieces of silver for betraying Jesus Christ. How much did Momentum get for betraying the Szeklers in Transylvania after the Hungarians in the Highlands? You know, while Judas of Ischirot lived with Jesus and the apostles, he had nothing to do with this community in spirit and thinking. In the Momentum, do you even know what thinking with a real Hungarian soul, belonging to the Hungarian community, means? Do you know what it does to be Hungarian? For us Christian Democrats, Trianon still hurts deeply after a hundred years. Do you know how proud Szeklers are of their history, faith, and language, which is not Romanian? If you don't know, then learn. If they know, then the question is why they campaign against the Szeklers in Szeklerland, and why they write to them in Romanian instead of Hungarian when the Szeklers win. As an honorary Szekler, I can say that the Momentum has hurt our souls. Dear Secretary of State, The question is why Momentum is a Hungarian party registered under Hungarian law, but why is it insensitive to the Hungarianity of the disconnected territories, but why is it insensitive to our historic nation, but why is it committing national political betrayal. I'm looking forward to your reply. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-168	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as you may have heard, will be given by State Secretary Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-10-12-169	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, When I heard my name, it occurred to me that Balázs Orbán, the greatest Szekler, would probably be spinning in his grave if he heard these stories, because it is truly outrageous that we are here 30 years after the change of regime, almost 30 years after the sentences of József Antall, according to which the Hungarian Prime Minister is 15 million Hungarian Prime Minister in spirit. We have fought a lot for the truth of this sentence over the last 30 years, we have survived many things, such as an eight-year-old socialist-free Democrat amok running under the leadership of Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsány, which has punished both national thinkers and Hungarians across the border. And one of the most important results of the past ten years is that, in terms of national policy, apart from radical extremes, I have succeeded, perhaps I can say that to create units beyond party policy logic, on the one hand, the Hungarian nation is indeed composed of 15 million Hungarians, on the other hand, that the current Hungarian government has a dog duty to support all 15 million Hungarians, all of whom are considered Hungarian citizens, both from here and across borders. [[14.10]] In addition, this is motivated not only by the feeling of patriotism and solidarity, but also by common sense, because Hungarian representation throughout the world and in neighbouring countries is the strongest, according to data and analysis, if we support Hungarian candidates and the strongest, most powerful Hungarian candidates. Momentum managed this axiom based on common sense and feelings of patriotism, I would say not to learn or not to learn. We hope that they will change, and sooner or later they will be part of this national consensus and not opposers. Thank you very much for the floor. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-170	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder will be addressed to Congressman Imre Vejkey. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-171	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, First of all, I would like to thank you for your reply. In addition to what you have said, with which I agree, I see the root of the problem in the fact that Momentum and their allies are unable to sacrifice for the Hungarian nation. Quotely, my dear Momentum, remember, without sacrifice for the nation, there is no real victory, only pirrusi. We, the Fidesz-KDNP, are now ready to sacrifice for the freedom of our nation, for the ashes of our fathers and for the god of Hungarians. We know that providence created the Hungarian and the Szekler as a nation: for a nation so that we have common ancestors; for a nation by speaking a language; for a nation by being a bastion of Hungarians. Mr. Secretary. Thank you for your answer and your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-172	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Orbán Balázs State Secretary is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-10-12-173	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, I would just briefly refer to the fact that, as a continuation of the idea I just said that there is a serious parliamentary force at the moment who rejects the idea of national cohesion, this is the Democratic Coalition led by Ferenc Gyurcsány, and there is a force outside the Parliament who does the same, and this is the Momentum led by András Fekete-Győr. We believe that Ferenc Gyurcsány and the Democratic Coalition are past, and it is sad that the Momentum and the Black-Győr András who recommend their political formation to young people that this is the future are on a platform in this matter. It's not gonna be the 21st. Hungarian resurrection in the century, and we are thinking and working on how to do it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-174	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman Csaba Gyüre, representative of Jobbik, notary of the Parliament, wishes to ask the Prime Minister of the Prime Minister's Office an immediate question:. What do you think of this, Minister? It's an address. Dear Mr. Messenger, Due to the Minister's absence, Mr. Balázs Orbán granted the right to reply. Congressman Csaba Gyüre, notary of Parliament, has the floor. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-175	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Secretary of State, Mr János Áder, President of the Public Treasury, in his transcript dated 5 October 2020 Dr. Zsolt András Varga nominated the Constitutional Judge as President of the Curia, who accepted this nomination. The 2011 CLXI on the organisation and administration of the courts. Law 103 Pursuant to paragraph 3 (e), the National Judicial Council delivered a preliminary opinion on the person nominated for the office of President of the Curia on the basis of a personal hearing. On 9 October 2020, the National Judicial Council listened to Dr. Zsolt András Varga and did not support the appointment of the candidate as President of the Curia by 1 vote and 13 votes, without abstention. The reasons for this are: Zsolt András Varga, who has never carried out any judicial activity, has no courtroom experience, and has no past in the field of judicial administration. According to the OBT summary, András Varga Zsolt does not meet the expectation that a person independent of other branches of power will be placed at the top of the court organisation, who also appears impartial to an external observer. Zsolt András Varga did not work as a judge, but he was among others a teacher in the ELTE College, lecturer, assistant professor, professor of the university, professor of the department, former official, author at the Prosecutor's Office, former Deputy Attorney General, former member of the Legal Exam Committee, member of the Venice Committee, former member of the editorial board. He was practically everything, there was only one thing: he was never a judge. What do you think of that, Mr. Secretary? Do you consider it appropriate for a person who has never been a judge to be the head of a court organisation, who has never worked in a court of law? [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-12-176	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, as I said, will be heard from Secretary of State Balázs Orbán. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-10-12-177	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Zsolt Varga, one of the most talented lawyers and generations of lawyers grew up in his writings and lectures, and the position from which he, if elected by Parliament, would be elected President of the Curia, a position of constitutional judge. So when you say Varga Zs. Andrew didn't do any judicial work, so you're talking about a constitutional judge. [[Dr. Pál Völner: Fake news!]] So you have a problem with the rules of Hungarian language and elementary logic, because you are a constitutional judge of justice. András Varga Zsolt has done almost a thousand cases in this body, and he has done an excellent job. And how the OBT decides on such matters is the sovereign right of this body. András Baka, who was complimented by you before, was not supported by this judiciary either. Moreover, the vote in the OBT shows that there is an internal dispute between courts: judges who judge the lower forum did not support it, while judges who judged the highest forum supported András Varga's nomination. I think that it is not for politicians to decide this, that judges can decide as sovereign what they decide, and then it is up to the Members of Parliament to elect the President of the Curia. But once again, to say that a constitutional judge does not perform judicial activities is contrary to the rules of common sense and molding logic, which I believe is still worthy of all Members of Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-178	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A one-minute rejoinder is given to notary Csaba Gyure. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-179	Mr. Secretary. You know that the Constitutional Judge never carries out judicial activities, judicial activities like a judge, does not participate in the work of the judicial administration. Even though we call him some judge, a judge of the Constitution, he doesn't do that kind of judicial work. In the same way that no soccer judge does any such judicial activity, or even our candidate László Bíró, he has not been nominated president of the Curia, for example. But let us consider the last time a person has been appointed a judge for the Supreme Court or for the head of the Curia who has not previously served as a judge. This hasn't happened since the change of regime. I looked into it: last time in 1953, during the Rákosi era, Erik Molnár [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: András Baka!]] [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: András Baka!]] and in 1954 József Domokos was elected. József Domokos spookies (Dr. Bence Rétvári: András Baka! ): At that time, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office was known as the Head of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, from which he transferred to the Supreme Court. Thank you. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-12-180	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Orbán Balázs State Secretary is also entitled to a one-minute rejoinder. Here you go. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: It was András Baka, the congressman remembers badly!]]
u2020-10-12-181	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Honourable Congressman, We are very fortunate to be here in Parliament, where we all have the right to freedom of speech, and we are not, let us say, on a constitutional test, where the student also has the right to freedom of speech, but what you have said in this one-minute speech would result in an insufficient grade. If you were aware of the rules in the Fundamental Law, you would know that there is a competence that we call a genuine constitutional complaint. [[14.20]] In this context, the Constitutional Court also assesses judicial decisions, such as the Curia's decision and the decisions of lower-level judicial forums. So the statement that you made is simply not true, the Constitutional Courts carry out judicial activities in the same way, and even the decisions of lower-level judicial forums are reviewed. So I think the next time you want to reach at least one two, you should reconsider your claims in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Dr. Csaba Gyüre interrupts.]]
u2020-10-12-182	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It's 2:20 p.m., and we're at the end of the immediate questions. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that no faction has asked for a question, and this item will not be discussed. This brings us to the end of the discussion of today's agenda. It is now time for the speeches after the agenda. Mr. Dániel Z. Carpathian? [[Z. Carpathian Daniel entering the Chamber: Present.]] We'll wait for Congressman to arrive. How much longer? Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát applied for a speech on the agenda entitled "The President of the European Union'. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-12-183	Mr President, Dear House, We have passed an educational parliamentary day, because, in addition to the evaluation of the results of an interim election by all sides, Hungarian reality is also faced. I told a story today that we received an alert from Szentendra regarding the fact that by the time she returned home to Szentendre in an oncology institute, she had no access to her own medicine or her own personal belongings. Yes, this story also comes from a former foreign exchange loan. We see that, not only does this government do nothing, but it also assists them in the face of continued enforcement abuses. We see that attention in relation to bribed potatoes and supposedly bribed threats to Borsod 6 was very powerful on the part of the governing parties, so much so that it raises a marked disturbance to the electoral order. Obviously, we will take the necessary steps in these questions. But we also see that in the meantime, the attention of a government that claims to be a national no longer extends to real people's real problems. At these moments, an eviction event is taking place in Érden. A few days ago, the capital of XV. The only reason why a family had to be evicted in his district was because one of the family members had to be quarantined at the scene after his stay abroad. It is very sad that we have to face the epidemiological emergency at all every day, this was perhaps the only aspect of this problem that could give this family breath and delay. We don't know what the outcome of the eviction event in Érden in our minutes will be, I know that we good representatives have been contacted by these people, they will come to us, and we will broadcast their problems, their lives live here, and we will bring them to Parliament. In the same way, I assume that these people will also contact the fellow members of the Party for Government, of whom I do not see one in the Chamber, except for Mr President and notary, but I hope that they will face at least through the Protocol that national self-religiousness does not begin to be written on the billboard of giants. Nationalism begins when we stand next to real people's real problems, we're out in the field. Yeah, the good guys, if you will, with a task force, from president to last sympathizer, plowed up Borsod 6. We have come to know many new kinds of problems, whether the drug situation in the villages or the feudalism that this government has done since 2010. But it is also in the same category that the better legal aid team has participated in more than 47 eviction events in recent weeks, months, years. I would also like to write the same prescription to the pro-government fellow Members. I do not dispute the often-spoken, if any, good intentions, but decisions can be made in a completely different way if one sees these events with one's own eyes. That is why it was amazing today, when I asked Minister about this question, that he could accept that a cancer patient does not have access to his own medications and belongings, while he was being evicted during his time in the hospital, I heard a smearing, miscopier reply that shifts responsibility for the period before 2010. Let's take a look at this historical flow chart. In 2001, that particular spirit was released from the bottle. Who was on the wheel then? 2001, fellow Members. The person who was then in the government made it possible to make unilateral amendments to the contract, which later resulted in a currency-credited disaster. Between 2002 and 2010, it was undoubtedly allowed to release the currency-credited hell in a way full of astonishing abuses, and no one can absolve the governments of that time. At the same time, we also see that after 2010, as this government has added a raise to the previous VAT increase, it has also raised the stakes in this area, not at the price of the day of admission, but at a market rate agreed with the banks, crediting people's billions of dollars in their bank accounts. And ever since then, we have seen that this government, which lies to the national level, has made an amazing kneel before the banking system, in everything it serves the interests of banks and multinationals, instead of serving the interests of the injured and Hungarian people. This debate, as long as I am here in Parliament, as long as we are right-wingers here in Parliament, will continue forever, because we cannot expect a government minister to stand up and admit that this has been very, very, very messed up. However, I must say that the government's escape from this situation would be one: immediately order the eviction moratorium and sit down with us at a negotiating table where we invite the affected, the civilians, and together we should work out solutions for the remaining victims. Failure to do so would be a historical sin. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-10-12-184	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! Mr Ádám Steinmetz from the Jobbik Group applied for a speech following the agenda entitled Father's Day, Paternity Day. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-12-185	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Members of the European Union are obliged to support equal opportunities in the labour market between women and men. Unfortunately, it is still typical in Hungary that women typically work for lower wages than men in the same job. Unfortunately, it is also often said that some employers do not necessarily favour women who are directly ahead of family formation when they apply for work. But now allow me to speak in an area where men and especially fathers need to be supported. The European Parliament and Council adopted more than a year ago 2019/1158. Directive 2002/92/EC provides that at least ten days of paternity leave must be granted at birth. Member States should transpose the practice in accordance with this Directive into national law by 2022 at the latest. Five working days are currently available for fathers in Hungary, which is important to emphasize not by employers but by the Hungarian state. The Government of Hungary has previously introduced a number of tools to support marriage, family formation and home creation, which indisputably help families to thrive. But why didn't they increase the number of paternity leave? A real family-friendly government should have done that first of all. And although the said EU directive requires ten days, i.e. two weeks, Hungarian families and men working hard for their families deserve more than that. We therefore consider it appropriate to introduce four weeks of paternity leave as soon as possible. The decision to introduce four weeks' leave in neighbouring Austria, Slovenia and Lithuania has been taken over the past period in relation to the directive, and even more has been given to fathers in Finland and Portugal. [[14.30]] An increase in paternity leave is also important because the father can provide greater support for the mother during the period following the birth of the child. Ladies and gentlemen, Allow me to tell you, as a family man with two small children, that I know from experience how much help the father and the companion's physical presence can be, both for the newborn and for his mother, after the birth of the child. More than a year has passed since the directive was born, but it has not been transposed into domestic law. For this reason, in agreement with several of my fellow Members, we have presented a proposal for a resolution to this House in order to extend paternity leave as soon as possible. I respectfully ask you to support this proposal, support the Hungarian families, support the fathers. Do not wait until 2022 to introduce regulation as soon as possible. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-10-12-186	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr László Keresztes, Head of the Group of the LMP, asked to speak after the agenda titled "Pécs 25" of our city. Here you go, Mr. Group Leader. You have the floor.
u2020-10-12-187	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Indeed, I will speak again about my city, Pécs, and my narrower country, Baranya County, and the various problems affecting the region, essentially government restrictions. We know that Pécs has been a loser of the past decades, and governments have come and gone and different representatives have worked for the Pécs in principle, but we can see that practically continuously the downfall was characteristic and the city's economy has become more and more difficult. So we got to the point that, during last year's municipal elections, Pécs's economy was by far the weakest of the large regional centres in rural areas, while the city had a debt of nearly HUF 20 billion. That's all we have to work on right now. It can be seen that this spring the coronal virus epidemic and the deep economic and social crisis caused by it have arrived, and then a great many parliamentary and governmental austerity measures have made it even more difficult to operate the city. If we break it down to Pécs, then we can see that just taking away the car tax and taking it away has cost the city more than half a billion dollars. Similarly, it was a huge problem that, in the case of the University of Pécs, which is independent of the city government, a two-billion-dollar withdrawal was enforced, which, in addition to the functions of the university itself, is also a major blow to the city's economy. Another concrete decision was made, which meant that the government, the state, is practically stepping out of the financing of local public transport, which, we can say, is an almost unsolvable task for most domestic cities and municipalities. This is compounded by the deepening economic crisis, local government companies are getting less and less revenue, and the local economy of Pécs in itself has suffered very serious injuries during the crisis, as can be said in the area of Pécs and Baranya. We can now see that, in particular, the Community transport company in the city has faced a very difficult situation. Only this company suffered a loss of HUF 525 million due to the epidemic, due to the lack of passengers. It can be seen that the company has already made use of its existing reserves, so it has become virtually impossible to maintain public transport to the current extent. In this connection, I think it cannot be a debate between us that it is one of the most important public services. Not to mention that it is already apparent that in the medium term it will be a huge burden for the city to replace almost the entire fleet of vehicles within five to six years. So you can see that we are talking about enormous tasks and huge sums of money, for which it is not expected that a city can manage itself, especially in such a severe epidemiological situation, during an economic crisis. We therefore believe that the government must immediately abandon the policy of austerity and give the cities the opportunity and the financial means in all respects so that, as at present, as the prime bastions of defence, they can perform this task and provide their most important public services. We do not see coherence in government policy, because it was clear that last year a government decision was taken in which Minister László Palkovics asked the government to develop a model of public financing for local public transport. Compared to this, the government has taken a counter-decision, made a decision before the Parliament that, instead of solving this system, the state has practically gone out, abandoned the cities, and this creates an unacceptable situation. It can be quite clear to everyone that if public transport cannot be ensured to the current extent and we can say that this is a national problem, which is such a challenge in almost every rural city, this is a huge problem. The city's viability is based on the right community, we can talk about congestion, avoidance of accidents or reducing air pollution. A well-functioning Community transport is a prerequisite for all of this. If we are talking about air pollution, we can say that this is already a huge, one of the biggest challenges today, but especially in an epidemiological situation, it is extremely serious, and we know that it is also a huge threat to complications if air pollution is stronger than usual in a given city. We therefore ask the government to abandon the policy of austerity, to consider the cities as truly partners in accordance with its promises, and to give them all the resources to ensure that these cities, not only in Pécs, but in all rural cities in Hungary, can provide the most important public services for the people living there. Similarly, we draw attention to the fact that these various restrictions have caused huge problems not only for large cities but also for small settlements. In one parliamentary debate, Minister of State Balázs Orbán also promised that if, in the case of small settlements, these various withdrawals and restrictions represent an inextricable problem, these decisions will be reviewed. I therefore believe that it is time for the government to look at this issue and it is time to consider as a partner the various municipal associations and to pursue a policy that gives the municipalities the opportunity to function properly even in such an epidemiological situation during an economic crisis. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-12-188	Thank you very much, Mr. Group Leader. Dear Parliament, Mr Rétvári Bence, from the Group of the KDNP, spoke after the agenda, with the title Vác receiving support for several years of budget support. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-12-189	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Indeed, in recent years and today, Vác has received subsidies from the government to the extent that central budget benefits are received in the city, for which there has been no precedent, and this represents a multiple of Vác's total annual budget. The most important thing in recent months and weeks has been the preservation of health and the maintenance of work for everyone. Let me explain to you the latest figures up to the last few weeks, which show that 61 employers received Vácon government support under the employment protection wage support programme. These 61 employers, 61 companies were able to save 1818 jobs in Vác, and the government contributed 252 million HUF. In the year of the Crown Virus crisis, not only is it important for the government to preserve jobs in Vác 1818 but also to create new jobs, which is why companies also received job-creating wage subsidies, 62 Vác employers received them, and 67 new jobs were created, and 67 new families were able to make a living out of a total of 77 million forints. The last few weeks and months have, therefore, reported both the retention of jobs and the creation of new jobs for projects and subsidies from government support. You can see the difference between right-wing and left-wing attitudes: while the government tries to create jobs and reduce taxes, left-wing city leaders, both here and elsewhere, raise taxes, eliminate jobs, reduce salaries or even try to cut salaries to zero. The city received a large stepping board thanks to the central tenders, as they have been waiting for generations for two lanes of M2 between Budapest and Vác. This could have been achieved now, in the last year. This is an economic leapboard for Vác, as it has a much better transport connection with Budapest, it is much easier to carry out both the transport of goods and any other logistics. So it's a historical opportunity for the city to live with, because it didn't have such good transport capabilities. I would like to add in parentheses that even four and a half hectares of replacement forest have been planted by the construction company precisely to protect our environment in the spirit of combating climate change. This year, the Danube shipping was able to get really started due to Mahart's flights. There have been tens of thousands of people in the Danube bend, who have not in previous years. Even the bunk trains were now able to set up regularly after the first wave of the virus epidemic. This means billions of forints per train and tens of billions forints in total. In the area of health or road construction, I would also like to mention the renewed bicycle road between Vác-Verce. In the area of health care, the hospital has received medical instruments and IT development worth HUF 800 million in the last year or two, with central government support and more than HUF five and a half billion for the construction of outpatient blocks. We hope that the regulation will soon be able to accept this from the city. [[14.40]] The government provided 77 million forints for the renovation of the Vác rescue station, and 90 million forints for the health development office, and the central government supplies of anti-protective equipment were continuous. The government has contributed to the construction of several statues, as well as the renovation of the Váci Dunakanyar Theatre, with a total value of HUF 345 million, as I said, from a fully central budget. There is a 4 billion HUF tourist development opportunity ahead of the city. Here, only the resources for preparation have been able to be drawn down by the city, but we hope that we will be able to continue to move forward in this. Transport development and tourism development can achieve a very old dream at the same time. Several million forints came to the cultural house from government and ministry funds, and tens of millions of forints also came to the Civitas Orchestra in Vác. In the field of education, 200 million HUF came to prepare for the renovation and expansion of the Karolina Choir School, 240 million HUF to prepare for the renovation of the Cházár András school, 154 million HUF for the vocational training center, 334 million HUF for the construction of the Deákvár cradle, 30 million HUF for the renovation of the kindergarten. Church developments have also been implemented and implemented through government support. The Coalition Youth Leadership Centre received HUF 315 million of government support, the lookout center received HUF 2 billion, and more than half a billion forints for the renovation of the Franciscan church in Vác. We were able to pass on the hope course, which was built entirely on state aid of HUF 774 million, but the boathouse was also built with a tender grant of HUF 120 million. Forint 25 million forints, about 200 million forints for extraordinary government measures, 4.5 billion forints for the renovation of the sewage treatment plant, and 145 million forints for the Vác District Office. It is the sum corresponding to two years of budgets, which is narrowly taken and many more years, which can serve the Vácias from central support in a broader sense. Thank you so much for listening. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-10-12-190	Thank you very much, Congressman. The Government of Hungary has saved hundreds of jobs from the Fidesz Group with the title Veszprém and its region. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-12-191	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, We have been taught many things and are constantly taught by the situation caused by the corona virus. Following the outbreak, the Government of Hungary reacted quickly and effectively. Following the closures, he did not sit still and announced the Economic Protection Action Plan on 7 April. Just to give one or two examples, during the period of cessation of work, the state took over 70 percent of the wages for three months, the employees in the research and development work had 40 percent wage support for three months, the administrative and tax charges decreased, and the social contribution tax also decreased by 2 percentage points. In the county of Veszprém 600 companies used reduced working time support for 11 811 employees with HUF 1 billion of HUF 765 million. For R &amp; D 44 companies received a HUF 956 million grant for 1164. With 6+3 wage support, 400 companies with 1775 employees received HUF 2 billion and HUF 71 million. Without a doubt, many have been in a difficult situation, yet the commitment that as many jobs have been destroyed by the virus, we have created so much, I think we have managed to keep it. The number of registered job seekers decreased by 53,000 by September compared to the peak in June. The number of people employed increased again to 4.5 million in August, so that the number of people employed was already higher than in early 2020. As an element of the action plan for support for enterprises affected by a coronal virus epidemic, a call for proposals for support for competitiveness has been launched. Competitive support is intended to help medium-sized and large enterprises affected by a coronal virus epidemic in the manufacturing and business service centre sector, until income losses, in order to overcome their liquidity problems, insofar as they undertake to retain their employees and to carry out new investments. I am very proud of the fact that 11 companies in Veszprém and its immediate area make improvements worth HUF 5.5 billion, thus ensuring the maintenance of 1860 jobs and the livelihood of 1860 families. The investments are made from state aid of HUF 2.5 billion. Successful applicants include a former transport company, a furniture factory with a 100-year history or a company producing medical aids. For example, the development includes capacity expansion, the purchase of production-related software, the construction of a new hall building, the construction of a new site, the development of a complex logistics centre, the production of medical equipment, the construction of a raw materials factory and warehouse. It was a great pleasure to see that, in the difficult situation, they decided to develop and invest in order to keep jobs and create new jobs. I am in constant contact with the leaders of small, medium and large companies in the region. After the success of the greats, the smaller ones also informed me that, while they felt the effects of the pandemic, they held on to a defence and defiance alliance, helping each other and the workers. I am pleased that they have also been able to make a successful use of the opportunities offered to them, whether it be a wage support for employment, a tender for technological renewal or a zero-percent long-term loan. We're going to have difficult months ahead of us, but I'm sure we'll get through this together, together. I would like to thank the Hungarian Government, Minister Péter Szijjártó, all staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and the HIPA Investment Agency for helping and helping applicants by providing a helping hand with exemplary attitude. What is certain is that companies in the region won't let their employees go. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-10-12-192	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Zoltán Varga, Member of the DK Group, applied for a post-meeting speech:. The strong people of Fidesz could not agree on the constitutional cost, so the investment is slipping? Why doesn't it build? since 2014 at the main station in Debrecen? It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-12-193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, I listened with joy and interest to the victory reports of my fellow Members from their own town. I can't give you such good news, even though the Fidesz people often treat Debrecen like Fidesz. We Debrecen, on the other hand, see that Debrecen is more of a city of investments that have been designed and redesigned and then not made, or that have been moving for years. A witch's kitchen is our city for the governing parties, where everything can happen, and the opposite. Even the fact that the project of an electric investment has been delayed for years with the Debrecen slaloming among the dug-up work pits, which is slowly filled with mud and rainwater. And by the time it's done, we'll be paying multiples of the original price for this tram. And to this day, this tram turns into every corner in the midst of great screams, making the daily life of those living there a living hell. All this because Lajos Kósa's strange and absurd electric tender and public procurement has managed to obtain trams that are virtually unable to turn into these corners, so the lack of better metal wheels and tram track indicates by screaming and extra wear that Mr. 20 percent and greedy Fidesz politicians have changed the professional standards here. Of course, at the handover, they promised us that these wheels would wear off. Well, I'd like to report from the perspective of a decade that these wheels aren't worn, but they need to be replaced. [[14.50]] But this is not the only nerve-stricken investment in our city since 2010, as we, the Debrecen, have been a strange viewer and sufferer of another investment for many years. His maiden name is otherwise known as the intermodal centre in Debrecen. Now it's just about rebuilding the main railway station, but that's not really the case either. Let's see what happened. In 2010, Lajos Kósa announced as mayor that the railway station and its surroundings would be rebuilt. I have to say, as Debrecen, that so far it's okay, Lajos Kósa has let that otherwise really patina area, Petőfi Square and the area around the main railway station go down over a decade and a half ago. A feasibility study was also made by pumping the EU's money taps for HUF 88 million. But I'd trust your imagination to see who the real winner of this study is, I think, figure it out. In 2011, the municipality announced a design contest of HUF 800 million, and two years will pass without anything happening. In 2013, we can watch the infernally expensive models of road 4, bus station underground, Petőfi square in green, and an impressive main railway station, and the city leaders of Debrecen show this. Of course, the people of the city are happy, but even more so, politicians who cherish and caress the project seem happy. But it turns out, otherwise it's just a visual design, just a model, so they ask the creators of the selected winning plan, although they would already make the detailed plans and announce quickly that the reconstruction of Petőfi tér and the entire main station will begin by 2015. You have no idea they haven't started, do you? Because they didn't start, but in 2014, the city announces that the plans are already slipping, for unforeseen reasons, and then another two years of silence. The year is 2016, the NIF, the National Infrastructure Developer Zrt. announces that the plans have been completed and that the procurement procedure can be launched. We are not surprised that after months of charades and repeated slippages, the tender will be won by companies close to the Prime Minister, and not by the fact that the total amount of the investment originally planned for 21 billion suddenly increased to 34 and 35 billion forints. And that's what they say in the market in Debrecen: Now, this is gonna be a party for Lajos Kósa! What is surprising is that János Lázár, the minister leading the then Prime Minister's Office, may have thought the same thing, as he invalidates the notice by saying that it is very expensive even for him, compared to the original 21 billion, and he instructs us to launch a new, cheap project, and that the investment should start with a new, narrower technical content in 2020. One scrape did not happen, it's the end of 2020 and I'm signaling, and there's almost one thing we can be sure of today: the investment may never be ready. And in the market in Debrecen, what do you think they're saying? The rumor is that the government, the Fidesz, had a fight over the constitutional cost, so Debrecen can look after her main station. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-12-194	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Hajdu László also spoke after the agenda with the title Requiem for the 30-year municipal system. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-12-195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, On 30 September 1990, I was also a party to the replacement of the Council system through the municipal elections by a new administration as a result of the municipal elections. Instead of a party-led administration, a self-director local community came into being, and elected a mayor, elected a representative body, formed the mayor's offices, appointed a notary, and started a whole new administration, which those involved in it, we also learned at the time what it looks like, as we have entered a multi-party country, and we had to practice multi-party administration. During this period, those who founded the municipalities in the various settlements of the country, the mayors and some of them, unfortunately, are no longer among us, and I would also like to remind them that they were there 30 years ago at the establishment of the new administration. During this period, the local government was one of the core values of the change of regime, and this basic value was set by the Constitution of the Republic of Hungary as a very important constitutional right, and we thought that the Constitution of the Republic of Hungary would define public administration permanently and for a long time. This also worked until 2010. The local government also played a prominent role in the legislative process, since there was a municipal committee in the parliamentary committees until 2010, highlighting that the development of settlements and the administration of municipal authorities were very important to the legislators and that there was a separate committee on this subject. More than that, they had a privileged right and opportunity, and the various major central funds that the municipalities could receive were mentioned here, since the funds could then be obtained in a normative way through targeted and targeted support, not subjectively, what kind of representatives they have and how they obtain these funds, but in a normative way and with target and targeted proposals, and this could be considered by the local development and municipal committee. They're a long way from here. That's not where we're going. I think that at that time, in enthusiasm, we did not think that there would be such changes that local governments could even achieve the loss of independence when the central will prevails again, as before the change of regime. This central will began with 2010 under the NER programme, instead of the abolition of the Constitution of the Republic of Hungary, with the introduction of the Fundamental Law, and the distribution of municipalities and municipal administration was continued, primarily by the establishment of the Government Office. Customer-friendly care has changed continuously in the public administration by running around customers, one being dealt with at the local government and the other at the government office, and this has to be learned by the Hungarian citizen if he wants to take care of his affairs. In many cases, this means double operation. In my little commemoration of the 30th anniversary, I find it difficult to say that in this current municipal system, to which we can safely say that an empty system of tasks and powers transferred to the government office is an empty system, I did not believe in this empty system myself as mayor for several cycles, so that we can see that the mayor will attend only celebrations and events. And here it was said what billions of investments some settlements receive, that there are settlements that are unable to obtain a single penny of resources throughout the cycle, either in a normative way or on other merits. Mr President, Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-10-12-196	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, What does the municipality do for the Újpest people? Mr Varju László also spoke after the agenda with a title from the DK Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-12-197	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Allow me to join my fellow Member, László Hajdu, in order to say a few words about today's everyday life after the historical reflection of the municipalities, and thus to indicate that the Újpest municipality, which operates as part of my constituency, has what to deal with in everyday life, and what joys or sorrows it has in this respect. I do this from the point of view that I myself have served as mayor for a period of time, and I know the difficulties to face, what daily decisions mean, but there is one important thing: first and foremost, I could say, only the local community, the people who live there, and in this case, they must serve the Újpestians. [[15.00]] I try to report on everything on a regular basis, mainly because, in fact, the decisions that are taken here in Parliament or which are born outside the House have an impact on the municipalities. I have already mentioned to you that the effects of the broker scandal, the fidesz broker scandal are fluctuating in Újpesten, and how it was discovered that a HUF 133 million, essentially unnecessary payment was made, that the company had a contract, but it was not authorised by the Hungarian National Bank and financial control agencies. This concerns the previous city leadership, since it was during that period, so the body of representatives decided that this matter should be investigated by the committee of inquiry, which we now know is not only the initial documents available, but also the judicial expert report. The investigation has already revealed, as I mentioned, that 133 million forints should be discussed. The effect was on this, because almost the next day, when I last spoke about it here in Parliament, the next day he changed his seat and name and began his activities in a new form. This work is going on, and because it seems to have caused a very serious disadvantage and damage to the Újpest municipality, I think it is important that I inform you about this. But to tell you not only such news, I also have to say that, in the previous cycle, a European development programme has started, which in itself is one of the important features of its European nature, although it has been listened to earlier, in order to reduce the housing crisis, in Újpesten, Károlyi Street, and on the other hand a new housing programme is being launched, and on the other hand 36 apartments are being built to meet the needs of the people waiting for the apartment, and I trust that this segregation and urban development within the framework of the VEKOP competition will bring joy to many. I am sure that the next year, or perhaps a little more time, will be needed to complete it, but in any case, under the supervision of the public administrations, it can be seen that there may be a need for further assistance and further improvements, and that is why it is important to support this. Thirdly, I have to talk about health care, because it gives the people of Újpest the opportunity to do so in the framework of the Healthy Budapest programme, in particular to reduce the lineup of CT and MR scans. It is possible for two branches, and in this, the municipalities, I might say, to cooperate with the free municipalities in accordance with Article XV of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Following the decision of the Municipality of Budapest, the SZTK, i.e. specialists of the Újpest clinic, may refer patients to the Uzsoki Hospital, for example, and accordingly 4152 CT and 1447 MR scans may be carried out within the framework of this program, which will be provided to the Újpest people. Therefore, despite the government's efforts to make life difficult for the municipalities, we are doing our job for the Újpest people. Thank you very much.
u2020-10-12-198	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Mr János Bencsik applied for a speech after the agenda entitled "Learnings of the Interim Election in Borsod." Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-12-199	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to talk about the Borsodi interim election, because I think that the whole thing has meaning beyond itself. The preferential potato price proved that Fidesz couldn't play with clean tools right now, but if we think that that's the only reason Fidesz won, and that's why Fidesz won even more than before, then we're making a huge mistake. This, my fellow Members, is nothing more than a huge debauchery. Unfortunately, this self-deception is also fed by opposition party leaders, with few exceptions, seeking excuses, giving victory reports, and giving no indication that they have faced failure. The facts are that the opposition has lined up completely behind one opposition candidate, all resources have been grouped here and still failed to win. Not counting fake candidates, 55 percent of opposition representatives voted for this constituency in 2014, and 45 percent voted for this constituency yesterday. So we were able to take fewer people together, less people to the ballot box without the opposition parties as a team, and unfortunately in 2022 there will be much less resources, while the governing parties have virtually infinite resources. You have to ask the question in this situation about what was missing, because there's definitely something missing. The Hungarian government at the door of an economic crisis, when, in Europe, in an exemplary way, it released people's hands in a crisis region that people suffered the most... the opposition could not address new voters compared to 2018. And if you couldn't now, you'd have to ask yourself what you could do in 2022, because if everything stays that way, then the 2022 election will be about two camps being fanatically hating each other, and they're gonna vote down on anyone but the other one, and if that happens, even our grandchildren will grow old in the Orbán system. Let's finally acknowledge that without new voters and new voters, there will be no change of government without parties capable of reaching out to new voters. And the question is not how many parties will unite against Fidesz-KDNP, not how many party logos will be on the ballot paper in 2022, but how the parties behind these logos will differ in content, what will be the difference in content, will be different colors, different sounds, which will be an alternative. Dear fellow citizens, The fact is that hundreds of thousands of people in Hungary today do not have a political community, and the people of civil Hungary today can not vote for anyone with a good heart. Yesterday in Borsod, a monotonous and monocolored opposition suffered defeat, and in 2022 I am convinced that only a multi-voiced and multi-colored opposition can win, but this requires full political renewal. And there is also a need for a political force that is able to address the world beyond the O1G, for which concepts such as God, home and family are as important as democracy and the rule of law, and which is committed to the ideas of civil Hungary, and whose voters are voting somewhere out of conviction and not on the basis of lesser evil. If there is such political power in Hungary, then there will be a change of government in 2022. Thank you so much for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of independent congressmen.]]
u2020-10-12-200	Thank you very much, Congressman. After the agenda, Mr Tamás Csányi, Member of the Jobbik Group, with the title of the Fideszes legacy, came forward. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-12-201	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear fellow Members, In my speech today, I would like to tell you about the so-called Fidesz legacy, the legacy left behind by the Fidesz municipalities a year ago after their resignation. I can be a member of the opposition parliament of a fortunate constituency in which the NER de-election took place in several settlements, and the voters have ended the fidesz warding politics. They have shown sufficient courage for a year in the polling booths of these settlements, and because they did not put the tick on the governing party or on the independent or pseudo-independent candidate they supported. This was a very big deal a year ago, but these newly elected settlement leaders were not in an easy position, because, in addition to the fact that political public experience did not help them, they had to deal with the very difficult fidesz legacy. In the days after the 2019 municipal elections, in weeks, they were faced with facts they had only had any idea of. They have experienced that when choosing employees, the integrity of Nersevik identity, the relative relationship, was more important than their predecessor, than the competence, and the applications were not in order than the general system operated by Fidesz. As you know, we unanimously took the immunity from the Fidesz MP of the 4th constituency of Jász-Nagykun-Szolnok county, István Happy, so that the authorities could act against it. [[15.10]] In response to my written question, Prosecutor General Péter Polt informed me that the Member was accused of acts in a procurement procedure limiting competition as a two-order instigator, accepting bribery as a two-order instigator and a two-order instigator. Happy István participated in the actions by misusing his position of office and influence to influence the results of the evaluation of the proposals, for which he received an undue advantage from entrepreneurs, the prosecutor's office informed him. And if we're talking about Happy Congressman and the Fidesz franchise he runs, you know, with the aim of playing as much public money as possible to friends and so the boys themselves, then we're gonna have to talk about Twopo, because there's a small amount of everything that characterizes this system. Last year, his non-Happy candidate won the municipal election, which resulted in a whole new situation in the village. More and more things have come to light over the past period. There is a long list of newer and newer problems that emerge from day to day, but this is not my goal. Let's just say that there's been a series of complaints over the last year, and there's basically the fact that every application has been investigated by the authorities. Basically, the financial stuff isn't all right. The half-brother of the Happy Congressman, who came to their attention in the previous cycle, is what a surprise! he was in charge of the local government-owned Kft. In addition, the activities of the new management are being made impossible by all means, and the local Fidesz will receive notary assistance. Nevertheless, the mayor's wife and her team are loved in the settlement, and I can only wish her good work and endurance from here. However, I also have to talk about another settlement, which has been virtually robbed, Tiszatenyő. As you know, István Kazinczy, one of the dear mayors of István Happy, did not receive any new trust from the inhabitants of the settlement. What was left behind is not put out in the window, if we may put it this way, because in this settlement they started to work on projects, for example, they laid the foundations of a poultry cutting bridge, in an amazingly professional manner in the presence of a copy of the Holy Crown, but there would also have been a pig colony and energy development here, but it seems that EU funds have not been used, to put it mildly, for the right purpose. Public money has lost its common sense. The projects have not been implemented, the 250 million HUF has to be repaid, but there is nothing to do with it. The proper reports have been made, the authorities are investigating. We hope to find out as soon as possible who and how harmed the inhabitants of the settlement. Overall, honourable Members, Fidesz is not leaving with an easy legacy if that is what the voters are calling for. Inlaws, squandering public funds, abuse of tenders are detected in settlements where they lose the power they are clinging to with their teeth and nails, and they do not shy away from keeping it. As we have seen in Borsod, toilet paper, potato, laptop distribution, embarrassing campaign, blackmailing mayors with EU funds, buying votes, chain voting, and certainly a long list. This is your campaign today. This is your legacy. Thank you, we don't want any more of this. Anyone with eyes can see, anyone with ears can hear. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-12-202	Thank you very much, Congressman. in the name of all Hungarians! Mr Kotocsáné Kőrösi Anita, Member of the Jobbik Group, spoke after the agenda. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-10-12-203	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Tomorrow, a year ago, on October 13, 2019, we were able to breathe in many cities, in Budapest and in many large cities, and millions of people had opposition-led self-governments and councils. Then hundreds of thousands of people said no to hatred, intimidation, humiliation and government propaganda. They got to the point that there was enough of the fidesz government that the Fidesz small kings in those cities had been doing for long, long years, even decades. I was also part of the Siófok campaign to participate actively, to play a role in the way that I was able to monitor what was happening in such an election campaign. This one year has shown that the Siófok made a very good decision when they gave that particular steering pole to Mayor Robert Lengyel and the Honorable Siófok Association, because they were heart and soulful in the campaign, despite the many, tens of millions of forints of Fidesz lords, proclaiming St. Teresa's program to the elderly, embarrassing them, distributing everything. The biggest threat, which I think is an unforgivable crime for the Fidesz MP, is that if you don't vote for the pro-government mayor, you're not going to come to town with tender money. It's the most irresponsible thing anyone can do. It's blackmail and threats! The same thing happened in Borsod now. What happened? You said that if you do not vote for the Fidesz pro-government candidate, then the region will not receive a tender. Every Hungarian person has the right to develop tax-paying money, regardless of the settlement he lives in. Oh, those settlements are sealed off like they are now in Siófok? That's right. Well, that's what we need. Nothing else is important to you, except that those funds will be channeled into the next campaign. Well, we don't want any of this. We will continue to fight all the fights that are to ensure the well-being of the people, the Hungarian people, because well-being is also about being free to choose. In an election campaign like this, which was in Borsod right now, it's just outrageous what you're doing! My fellow Members have said several times today: do they distribute potatoes and toilet paper? ! Excuse me, where do we live? ! Not to mention the laptops. You abuse people's feelings that they want to break out. They're poor, and you're using them. I simply can't find a word for what they're doing in this country. László Bíró won 67 percent victory in Tiszaújváros. I congratulate him from here, too, because this has proved that in the cities you no longer have a word. There's more in the villages. But perhaps they do not have a word, but I would change the word: you have an influence, an intimidating campaign and an activity that is quite simply outrageous and unimaginable in a rule of law, democracy. Open your eyes. Let freedom and prosperity be for all Hungarians! And then, in 2022, we'll get to the point where you'll be sitting here on this opposition side. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-10-12-204	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! We need everyone! Mr Rig has also applied for a speech from the Jobbik Group after the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-12-205	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, It's a big problem, fellow Members. While there has been an increasing shortage of professionals in health care for years, in one day a law is being passed at the National Assembly that thousands of doctors and health workers plan to resign because of several points. A law and a legislative amendment that you have submitted to several of my fellow Members has been submitted in the committee to convey the requests of the Medical Chamber and the Medical Society in these amendments. Well, unfortunately, they lied again, I have to say. They led the congressmen on, led the doctors on, and among them led the health workers to shame! All this bill wrapped in the frosting of wage increases and gratuity payments. We can say by this law that this is the Trojan horse of health care, the Helen Act. The lack of expertise proves that I recently received another request from the ÁEEK last week that if I do not already have volunteer work, I should register immediately, as this is a recognition of the shortage of professionals. In the spring, because of Covid, I was among the first to volunteer for the EMMI, just because I know how much trouble it is. I did not propose a decision for a reason to recognise the work of volunteers in the form of a recognition certificate. I'll be curious to know if you'll be interested in professional or party interests in voting. In the meantime, what happens? It is incomprehensible that right now, when there are more and more covid patients, at present more than ten percent of patients treated in the hospital are on a ventilator, more and more people are going to the hospital, fewer and fewer professionals, and we need to create a conflict between the government and doctors, doctors and doctors, doctors and professionals, the medical community and people. Because that's what this is about. When you have to stick together, and that's true, there's a division between people. [[15.20]] I ask the honourable members of the government, including Minister Pintér, to consider the amendments and not to use force to circumvent this law on those who, at the moment, are most needed. Now allow me, not as a Member, as a Member of Parliament, but as a health worker and former union leader, to speak to health workers and not to Members. I ask you that at this moment, what we are living here, you work in the front line, hold on and hold on together, because the power of unity can change a law; a politician can push any button in the room if there is no power behind him; you have always been, and you will be. Albert Wass once said that together we are a force, a weakness all over. I'm sure a lot of people remember how many hospitals, how many classes have been tried to eliminate in the past, and the force of unity has always been able to turn these things around. Believe me, Facebook post, Facebook comment, likes, angry heads are very few right now. Now the only thing that can change this law is that if the medical community, the workers and those working in the social sphere hold hands together, they stand up for each other. But besides, since there's an epidemic, I'm asking everyone to do their job with the greatest possible force, a hundred percent, so that any pro-government politician or media can say that you're on strike because you don't want to work. You've proven yourselves in the last month, so I think I can convey the thanks of all the Members, and now you can prove that health care workers, health society, whether the doctor or the professional, can work together for a good cause, nurse with the doctor, nurse with the surgical boy and other medical workers, and you can change this law by arm. Politics is a tool. We can help you, but we can't do this without you. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Please take this into account. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-10-12-206	Thank you very much. Congressman! I didn't take the floor, but in this House, you can only speak as a representative. So you could have said all this as a Member of Parliament, and it would still have the same content. [[Lajos Rig: And I'm proud to be the union leader...]] Very well, Congressman. You must be very proud of being a union leader, but you're not a union leader here, you're a congressman. [[Lajos Rig: I'm also a health worker, Mr. President.]] And I'm asking you not to argue with me. [[Lajos Rig: I understand.]] Thank you very much. After the agenda, István Apáti, Member: let the KATA entrepreneurs live! It's an address. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-10-12-207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, The Hungarian Movement finds the government's rampage from which it seems to be impossible to dissuade the governing parties and the pro-government representatives, which you are committing against the 400 000 Katák entrepreneur, to the harm of the Katák entrepreneurs. I know the subject seems a little marginal at first reading, but I'd like to give you some shocking numbers as a start. There are at least 400 thousand entrepreneurs working in this country; we are talking about the livelihood of approximately 1.5 million Hungarians, including family members. And this 400 thousand entrepreneurs and 1.5 million Hungarians are subject to at least two thirds of the 40 percent extra penalty tax, which, as it stands, would in principle enter into force from 1 January 2021. In short, the essence of this regulation is that those katás entrepreneurs who earn income above HUF 3 million from the same principal can expect a penalty tax of 40 per cent for this part over HUF 3 million in such a way that if, in the case of a domestic partner, we honestly go beyond this limit of 3 million in today's price conditions, this 40 per cent tax will be charged to the paying agent. In Hungarian, the point is the same: they will lose this customer or this client, because obviously such a 40 percent extra tax cannot be paid or managed by the vast majority of the clients or customers. If you are facing a foreign business partner, you will be charged the Katás taxpayer itself with the 40 percent special tax for the part above HUF 3 million. In both cases, the result will be the same: the Katás taxpayer will lose most of its clients and will either continue to do so blackly, will no longer pay 50,000 forints, or a job-seeker registration will follow. But I'm sure it'll only happen in a small proportion of cases that the government would like to have contracts of employment. We understand the intention to have a much higher tax and contribution revenue for employment contracts, but we would like to indicate from the MiHazánk Movement that it is not the time for the conclusion of mass contracts, but the time for mass blacking or mass job-seeker registrations. We are confused about why we had to walk with such a rapid pace into a relatively well-functioning system, one of the few Hungarian tax success stories, to which it was true that less was more. The kata always received much higher tax revenue than was planned in advance. Compared to this, it seems that some people did not think it was better for the tax authority to investigate cases where we are actually dealing with a fake contract and where there really is a place for a contract of employment, but to destroy everyone, at the very bottom, with this kind of Russian artillery method. And the story doesn't stop here, because this will also have a serious impact on the pensions of catnip taxpayers, because in the case of catnip, the pension calculation is specific. According to the present situation, those who tax or operate under this tax regime for 40 years can expect a service period of 26,5 years from the point of view of the pension, since their contribution base is only HUF 102 thousand from 1 July 2020, which is about one third less than the gross minimum wage of HUF 161 thousand. For this reason, we can see that 40 years is 26,5 years, and they can expect a pension of approximately HUF 43 thousand. At the same time, the tacit deal so far, a quasi-social contract, has been to obtain much higher net incomes, to prepare for a pension by choosing individual savings, pension savings solutions, to save much more money for their retirement years than those who work as employees and under employment contracts. Yes, only with this 40-percent extra criminal tax rule will the government achieve that they cannot earn well at present or when they are active, and they cannot put aside for their retirement years, and with this very disadvantaged pension and pension service period regulation, they will also be underdoubted in their retirement years. Let us face it, ladies and gentlemen, today about 43,000 forints is enough for certain hunger. So with all due respect, we would like to ask the government that it is not too late, it is close to three months, so do not allow this rule to enter into force, change it for the present and retirement future of the catholic taxpayers. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-10-12-208	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, MEP László Sebian-Petrovsk asked to speak after the agenda from the DK Group:. Here you go.
u2020-10-12-209	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The moment has come, ladies and gentlemen, that I am going to read you a story from the famous fairy tale book "Everyone in Storyland," with the title "The Prince." Three hills of gold from here, three mountains of silver, where the short-tailed one digs all the fields, lived a prince and his mother and the court cat. They lived on three. As I write it, as I say, you've lived three lives. The princess was old. She was bored of the throne. He'd be better off retired, saying that, nothing else. I'd love to do the wrinkles, patch holes in socks, that'd be a pleasure. As I write it, as I say, that would be a pleasure. The queen did not think for a week, but she dragged the son of a beautiful sleeping prince out of bed. Useless, slutty sloth, you could get married now and finally sit on the throne! As I write it, as I say, you can finally sit on the throne. He's been ordered by his noble mother to decide until tomorrow morning. He just peeped, crappy, didn't ask for breakfast. [[15.30]] But his mother's robot voice says that his rank demands it, nothing else. As I write it, as I say, it's what you wish for, nothing else. Every prince in the area has been married for a long time, ruling, fighting wars, and I should do the same for you. You're the one with the freckles, the hunchback, the lame, the water-sick king's seedling, and you're the only one who's out of it. As I write it, as I say, he was the only one with no business. She said she was screaming until the prince leaned on her, that if she had to, she would get married, and she'd already done it with someone else. On the list of maiden princesses, as many names stood, her mother dialed it. As I write it, as I say, her mother dialed it. Here came the amazing army of princesses: Soprano Sofi Austria's catchy delicacy, as her throat operated, gurgling high beets. As I write it, as I say, it gurgles high beets. Like a swan with a little body, he swayed the song, but the prince squealed, and was glad it was over. If you keep this up, you won't be going to the opera anymore. As I write it, as I say, you're not going to the opera anymore. Dolly's here, he's from Texas, juggling, he's masterful, he's spinning six balls in the air, and he doesn't fall off. You can do magic, you can do art, the prince yawns. As I write it, as I say, the prince yawns. Greenland's daughter came in then, she was green as a salad, the prince of this vegetable thinks she finds her heart. He couldn't find it. She's not the vegan daughter of the vegan king. As I write it, as I say, the vegan daughter of King Vegan. Philosopher, urologist, psychologist, physician, such a, such a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a,, a, a, a, a,, a,, a,, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a,,,,, a, a, a, a, a,, a, a,,,,, a, a, a,, a, But the prince's mood is sadder, not more dating. As I write it, as I say, it's not more dating than it is. It's like a butterfly, and her mother's eyes are pinned, and she feels impaled, and the collection of butterflies is ready. The hoop master's playing tricks, there's another one here, and they're letting him in. As I write it, as I say, there's another one, they'll let you in. The little princess, accompanied by her brother, comes in with her golden bath, and the effect is chilling. There was great joy, there was great joy, there was love, there was even the cube. As I write it, as I say, it's love and even cube. The flame of my heart, like a mauve, will be my beloved, I didn't even know what the hottest love would grow on, the prince would say, blushing, falling into a spontaneous embrace. As I write it, as I say, falling into spontaneous hugs. I never dared to believe that I'd be here with my partner, like when all of a sudden he'd be rich and broke. There's no other way to do that. The princes are hugging. As I write it, as I say, the princes are hugging. The wedding was at seven borders, two princes became a couple, the eternal love is now heard by the holiest altar. The mouse in the church has shed tears of joy. As I write it, as I say, she has shed tears of joy. Ladies and gentlemen, That was the story, that's the end of the story. Do you really think that's a threat to children? Or perhaps the dangerous thing is that they who read this, or parents who read it to their children, do not imagine a society as hateful and as hateful as you, my fellow Members of Fidesz and KDNP. 'Cause it's not really a story. We all know that it's about attacking an open, tolerant, empathetic and entirely different world that you're doing, and all because your power is based on this kind of hate propaganda... [[The president's gonna turn off the speaker's mic. László Sebian-Petrovszki: That's how they stay in power, and that's why they've been doing this kind of hate activity in the last few weeks. Thank you very much.]]
u2020-10-12-210	I think, Congressman, that if you stand up at the beginning and start by saying that the gender principles [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: It's called the Jender!]] You stand for broadening it, that would have been a good speech, but for a fairy tale, I'm sorry, I don't think that's appropriate in this House. [[László Sebian-Petrovszki: That's your opinion.]] Mr Tibor Bana applied for a post-meeting speech with the title of "Excerpts and Tasks." Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-10-12-211	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, The municipal elections took place a year ago tomorrow is the anniversary of this, and yesterday there was an interim parliamentary election in the district of Tiszaújváros. As an opposition Member of Parliament, I think it is important that I draw a balance on the results so far and look forward to 2022, to talk about the tasks that are very important in the next year and a half, as that is what remains until the 2022 parliamentary elections. On October 13, 2019 the municipal elections were held, and we have seen, Honourable Parliament, that there have been substantial changes in many places throughout the country. In many settlements there was an opposition victory. This was also the case at Vas county seat in Szombathely, where I clearly and firmly stood up for András Nemény and his team in the municipal election campaign. If we look at the year behind us, we can see that, in the case of Szombathely, his leadership is trying to lead the city by keeping the promises that were made during the municipal election, and thus good owners of Szombathely. But I must add that fortunately there are city leaders throughout the county, whether in small settlements or in cities, who lead their community with a similar attitude, and there are representatives of local governments who do their work in this way as representatives. This is the case with the representatives of the local government of the joint Vas County Association. And I am very pleased that this will also appear in the county assembly in Kőszeg, in the case of MEP Rába Kálmán, or in connection with the work of local government representatives Andrea Bartakovich and Viktor Orbán in Szentgotthárd, who, by the way, obtained a mandate in Gotthárd with the support of the Association for Szentgotthárd. During the last year, Mayor Hajnalka Mihátsiné Dózsa has been leading the community, the village, and has tried to do this with all her heart and soul. It is also important to say that, in addition to the fact that the Joint Vas County Association has representatives of local governments, there are several mayors outside of them, and a municipal representative with whom we are in very close cooperation. This is the case with independent municipal representative Miklós Körmenden Auer, who has been working conscientiously to represent the interests of the Körmendi on the board since 2010. As a member of the Parliament of Vas County, I can say that we want to continue to work constructively at local, county and national level, the Vas County people can count on us in the future. But let's look at yesterday's interim parliamentary election and see what lessons can be learned from the result. I think that yesterday's vote has shown that there is a need for pre-election in 2022, preferably in all districts, but in the so-called wobbly districts, because it is extremely important in these constituencies to find suitable and unbreakable candidates who can defeat the people who have been launched by Fidesz. Unfortunately, during yesterday and during the months preceding it, the campaign proved that this did not happen in this case. For this reason, opposition parties and politicians have a very high responsibility for the legislative elections in 2022 so that all 106 constituencies are able to bring such persons to the opposition. This is also very important in the three constituencies of Vas county, so that such persons can represent the interests of the people who live there. For my part, I can promise that I will continue to be there for people living in the county, whether their homes are one of the small settlements or one of the towns of Szentgotthárd, Körmend, Kőszeg, Sárvár, Szombathely, Őriszentpéter, Vasvár, and I can list the cities of the county. Of course, on behalf of the Joint Vas County Association, it is of fundamental importance that we be able to represent the people of 216 municipalities in the county, make the amendments at local or parliamentary level, and live with speeches, do work that is characterised by constructivity. After all, I believe and this is my political understanding that people in the county deserve to have credible and active representation, whether at local level or at county level or at parliamentary level. This is how I intend to continue to do my job for the people of Iron County. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-10-12-212	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Fellow Members! I would like to inform you that the next autumn session is expected to take place on 19 October 2020. Now I thank you all for your work. The meeting's closed. I wish you all a good, good night, a happy home.
