u2020-02-20-0	[[The people in this room stand up and greet the voters' community. When the chairman of the meeting takes his seat, the people in the room will sit down.]] Good morning, fellow Members. I welcome you all with love. Extraordinary session of the Parliament is now in session. I would like to inform you that László Földi and György Szilágyi, notaries, will be in charge of the meeting. Welcome to our guests and everyone who's watching our work today. The pre-meeting speeches will follow. Mr Sándor Burány has applied for a pre-meeting speech from the Group of Dialogue with the title "On Current Affairs." Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-20-1	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, Dear fellow Members, There is no time for the government to come up with any ideas as to how it could reduce the room for manoeuvre of the municipalities, how it could reduce the opportunities and freedom of decision of the municipalities. One of these recent ideas is that the government intends to change the business tax system. Local industrialisation tax revenue is due to the municipalities. In the past, the government has undermined the right and freedom to decide when it has said in what order of importance these industrial tax revenues should be used instead of free use. Now it seems that the government wishes to continue on this otherwise faulty path. It seems that the government is preparing not only to tell the municipalities what to spend their income on, and not to spend it, but also to reduce these revenues. According to a vision that has come to light, on the proposal of Minister of Finance Mihály Varga, the government would transform the local industrialisation tax laws in such a way that the revenue of municipalities would be reduced by billions of forints. This mainly affects Budapest, but it would put almost all major cities at a disadvantage. The fact that this is so is proof that, surprisingly, because we were not used to it earlier, the Fidesz Mayor of Székesfehérvár, Mayor Cser-Palkovics, also protested against the draft. Not only Budapest, but also Székesfehérvár, Debrecen, Kecskemét and Győr would be seriously damaged by the restructuring of the local business tax system as planned by the government. This does not simply reduce the powers, it does not simply tell the municipality what it can spend on, what it cannot spend on, it means a substantial reduction of resources, it reduces revenues, it will reduce the amount of money that can be used by these municipalities. The intention is perfectly clear, the government essentially wants to have the powers and resources of the municipalities as much as possible. He is doing this in order to try in some way to bring the mayors and bodies of these cities to their knees. The principle is perfectly clear: those who do not move at once do not get sloppy at night. After the funds are withdrawn, the government has only one option, and it also makes use of this at times: it enters into a specific special agreement with a large city on how to provide additional State resources for certain investments or for the operation of the municipality, but it will go to the face of it. And it's clear that there may be refreshing exceptions to the rule, but the general principle is what I just said: whoever doesn't fit doesn't expect anything good. It is not that the freely elected self-government of free people, acting in their own free decision-making powers, can decide on its resources, but that, by removing a significant part of these resources, the government, the Prime Minister, can reward local government leaders and cities on the basis of political loyalty, or punish cities with opposition leadership on the same basis. Ladies and gentlemen. This provision is more than a sin, it's a mistake. It is not simply that Fidesz and Viktor Orbán want to shape the whole country in their own image, it is that the issue of local freedom is damaged, the issue of local autonomy is damaged, and this is unacceptable in Hungary as well. Thank you very much for your attention.
u2020-02-20-2	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr András Tállai, State Secretary, replied to his speech before the agenda. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-02-20-3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the business tax, the local tax, is of great importance in the financing of municipalities, as since its introduction after the regime change, the industrial tax has become a decisive revenue for the municipal system. I would just like to say two figures: in 2010, HUF 443 billion of this type of tax came in, and by 2020 the municipalities had planned 827 billion. This means that, over ten years, business tax revenue has doubled in the local government budget, which means that an average increase of 10 per cent is expected per year. Local governments, whether small settlements, small towns or county towns, or the capital and districts of the city, have a significant amount of local tax revenue in their budgets. In addition to local tax revenues, however, the amount of State aid is significant, reaching 50 per cent in terms of municipal funding. After 2010, the current Fidesz-KDNP government transformed the funding of municipalities, introduced the task funding, identified the mandatory tasks provided by the state, by law, to be carried out by the municipalities. Of course, depending on how much local tax revenue they were able to collect, and this is very variable in the territory of the country... some municipalities are able to realize a very high local tax and others, unfortunately, do not know how much they want or do not know at all. Therefore, there is a completely different picture of the management of municipalities. Those who have received significant industrial and local tax revenues in nearly two decades can provide a completely different service to the residents. Indeed, it is, as the Member says, not the government, not the Parliament, but the Competitiveness Council has discussed the minimum restructuring of the local tax system. It is minimal because, in total, the Competitiveness Council discussed whether depreciation could be deducted from the tax base, this represents around 10% of the costs, five times the R &amp; D tasks should be deductible and 90 percent of the company tax duty should be removed. It is up to the Competitiveness Council to assess the situation of small businesses and to assess the local tax system from a business point of view. In this respect, it is acceptable that they want a new, different, more competitive local tax system. I would like to tell you that, on the basis of your statement in 2017, you have also dealt with the fact that the competitiveness situation of businesses in Hungary is inadequate. You did not approach this issue from a municipal point of view, but from a competitive point of view. At the time, his opinion was completely different, in line with the Competitiveness Council's opinion. [[Sándor Burány intervenes.]] I would also like to point out to you that it is not the Fidesz-KDNP government that is to fear the funding system of the municipalities and the situation of the municipalities. I remind you that in 2010, this government took over the situation of municipalities in bankruptcy. [[Gergely Harvesto: You're not telling the truth, you're lying!]] and from this bankruptcy, the situation of municipalities had to be restored with a loan transfer and support of some HUF 1,400 billion. Besides, the government does not want to distract, it does not want to distract, the local tax, the local tax will remain for the municipalities, just because you want to take EU funds out of the government's hands and use them for direct municipal purposes. [[Gergely Harvesto: Yeah, yeah, yeah, don't steal it. The president's ringing the bell.]] I would also like to remind you that you wanted to introduce a property tax into the municipal system, to hit the population, to introduce a tax on housing, which was then abolished twice by the Constitutional Court. [[Nacsa Lawrence: That's right!]] Overall, it is not the Fidesz government that should fear the fundingability of the local government system, but most of all of you, the left-wing governments. We have just resolved the situation of the municipalities, and this will continue to be the case in the future. Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]] [[9.40]]
u2020-02-20-4	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Mr Ungár Péter has applied for a speech before the agenda, which the Government does not address in the Group of the LMP. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-20-5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I would like to draw the House's attention to a subject that I think everyone in your district who talks to citizens is aware of. This is that it is almost impossible to place older relatives in older care care, especially in institutional care, in Hungary today. I would like to start by saying that in the tenth year of the Orbán government, who takes care of his older relatives at home and a lot of people are forced to do so, because he could not place them elsewhere, he will receive 38 or 58 thousand forints. This is the home care fee for the tenth year of the Orbán government, and before you say the word selfie in response, I would like to point out that yesterday I watched, and the Fidesz MEPs selfie in the Chamber more than the opposition in power. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: There are more of us, that's why. That's two-thirds.]] So I think you're gonna have to stop using that word, please. I would like to go further: I would like to say that in vain you answer in writing with numbers, numbers that I do not think show reality. [[Dr. Bence Rétvári: The numbers don't show reality anymore?]] I'd like to give you numbers from the Central Statistical Office, which are trying to draw the government's attention to the problem. Currently 31 926 people, this is December 2019 data on the waiting list for them to enter the nursing home. A significant part of these people require separate treatment for dementia, which, by definition, is difficult for other family members to provide at home, as this would require a professional qualification, and these people need specialist care. The fact that these people, who have paid for social security for 30-40 years, have contributed to the health and social care system, do not receive any dementia-related care because, unfortunately, they die before the waiting list, this is a very big problem, which shows that the government does not deal with older care. The fact is that there are currently 45 people waiting for 100 seats, and this is because of the problem, and this number has grown over the past few years. Because of the increase in divorces and the ageing of society, more and more people will be left alone and need to be treated alone, and it is the responsibility of the state to provide these people with the provision of care for the elderly through institutional care. The fact is that the Fidesz government does not spend enough on elderly care, the EU average is 0.5, and the Fidesz government's spending has been between 0.3 and 0.4 per cent of GDP over the last ten years. You don't spend money on this. I don't want to go into where the budget could be transferred, but I think you could give me examples of that. The fact is that if, on the other hand, people are somehow able to get into nursing care, very, very few professionals work in these elderly care institutions because the wages of the social sector are simply humiliating in the tenth year of the Orbán government. 70 percent of those who work in the social sector get no more than the guaranteed minimum wage, and because they are so badly paid, there is no difference between working with a degree or a secondary education, or having, say, a professional or dementia-specific education in a social care system. The thing is, 91 percent of these people are women, the kind of people who do the very important caring work that we should appreciate. I would add that this is why the union wants to strike; not in a good mood, but because this wage situation is completely unacceptable, and you will make it impossible every month in the wage trial. I understand you're not the Secretary of State, but someone else is here, but you're talking to the union, you're not gonna let them strike, and you're not gonna let us have a collective agreement in the social sector. The fact is that the average length of the waiting list in Hungary today is 2.1 years. 2.1 years! How can it be said that the state provides the Hungarian people, if, if someone has contributed to the functioning of the state, they cannot provide dignified state care in their old age for 2.1 years? ! You are dealing with a lot of things that are important or not, but this very, very important question about what our welfare state is like and how we value those who have been involved in Hungary for the past 50-60 years in a difficult period of time in order to live, who are our parents, grandparents, who can grow old with dignity, who do not participate in this, do not deal with it, and do not spend money on it. This is inexplicable, and I ask Mr Secretary of State to answer this question in a manner worthy of the seriousness of the situation. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-20-6	Thank you very much, Congressman. Honourable Congressman, The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go.
u2020-02-20-7	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, You forgot only one thing in the second half of your speech, but you forgot to mention one very important thing, honourable Member, in the second half of your speech, that Minister Kásler announced exactly yesterday that the wage increase for those working in the social sphere would not only be felt by those earning less on their wages in January, the 8 percent increase resulting from the increase in the guaranteed minimum wage, the minimum wage for skilled workers, but the government adds 6 percent. In this way, they will be paid a higher wage backwards, both in January and now in February, by 14 percent. For those who receive a higher wage, this will also be guaranteed a 14 percent wage increase. So, honourable Member, it is an 8 plus 6 per cent increase in wages that has been created as a result of the negotiations that you said, two minutes ago, that they do not exist, they do not exist, and we do not negotiate; while, in fact, these negotiations have resulted in a 14 per cent increase in wages, honourable Member. I wrote down a saying because I think many of us can still quote that the numbers do not even show reality, as you said here recently, just a few minutes ago. Then what would show the truth, honourable Member, if not the numbers? One of these figures, which was obviously followed by several earlier ones, as there was a sectoral wage supplement already in 2014, a sectoral wage supplement in 2011, a consolidated bonus in the following year, last year we decided to provide a surplus of HUF 40 billion in the social sphere in a sector neutral way; so that public, municipal, church and foundation institutions would pay the wage surplus, so that there would be no problems at all, and that there would be no complicated accounting for the wage supplement, wage supplement, and a combined wage supplement. And we would like to continue with such a 14-percent wage increase with an 8 plus 6 per cent income increase, and obviously we hope that in the coming years there will still be an opportunity for further wage development, because many are right in that, and the government agrees that those working in the social sphere need to increase their financial appreciation. We are also doing this because there is a counterexample: with whom you are running for election in conflict, they have taken a month's wages from all social workers. So those you mentioned here, with whom you are in solidarity, were not in solidarity with those with whom you are running for election, because they took a month's wages from every social worker, even though they didn't earn very well. Honourable Congressman, Last summer, there was a representative survey of what kind of care the elderly themselves would like. Seventy-five percent of them said that they wanted care, as far as possible, 74 percent of them earlier. [[Péter Ungár: End of the century survey!]] which provides them with assistance in the framework of home assistance. 73 percent preferred improving access to nursing services, and residential institutions were also obviously considered important, but to a much lesser extent, about 55 percent. So what we can see from this is that they want older people to stay in their homes, in their own homes, and the state to take the services there. [[9.50]] There has, of course, been an extension of seats, honourable Member. Although you don't think the numbers show the reality anymore, I sent this to you months ago, too, that 4048 new seats were created in the care system, and 131 cases of social services were accepted, and last year, although I recall that you didn't support a new type of service here in Parliament, precisely so that we could meet as many needs as possible. But in addition to all this, the biggest demand, as I say, was 74 percent, precisely in his home, in his own apartment, helping the elderly. That is why it is important that the number of people receiving home assistance increased very much between 2010 and 2018, honourable Member, from 75,000 to 92,000, so it has increased by nearly 20,000 people. More importantly, the quality of care has increased in a higher proportion than the supply chain itself, since while in 2010 5700 people were employed in the profession, who helped older people in their own home, it is now not 5700, but 12 300. So much more people can take care of nearly 20,000 older people. Part of this was the increase in funding, and also to a significant extent. This is also possible for the participation of more caregivers. It was a nearly 30 percent increase, we raised these resources from 166 thousand forints to 210,000 forints. Honourable Congressman, And, indeed, let's not go without saying that you're here to talk about a lot of things. [[The president, by jogging the bell, indicates the end of the time.]] But when they governed, they reduced the benefits when they could have raised the care fee and the care fee for children here in Parliament, but they did not vote for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-20-8	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. With all due respect, I would like to call on the speakers to try to comply with the time frame. Thank you very much. Don't fool pensioners. Mr László Varju applied for a speech before the agenda entitled "The DK Group." Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-20-9	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Dear House, Dear Parliament, For years, we've been terrorizing what the government's been doing to pensioners and pension corrections. Every year, the Orbán government pretends to expect ridiculously low inflation for the following year, and on this basis determines the pension correction. Then, when the prices are clearly rising dramatically, predictablely, you will just spread your hands like the Fidesz city leadership in the face of the first snow. Then, after the pensioners get less pensions than they deserve all year round, you throw them a ridiculous amount of pension correction at the end of the year. Forgive me, I am so Hungarian European that it makes my stomach fall asleep. Fidesz fellow Members! You may be able to afford to go to a restaurant every day, but please go to an average store, not a Gucci or Bentley salon, but a regular grocery store, or even a market in Újpest, if you like, and check the prices. Five years ago, 1 kilo of bread cost 272 HUF, today it cost 325 HUF. Five years ago, 1 kilo of onions was 196 forints, now it costs 406 forints. That's more than double. Five years ago, 1 kilo of potatoes cost 172 HUF, today it costs 253 HUF. And I didn't tell you about sugar, milk, medicine and all that stuff. That's how the price of everything has run out in the last few years, while you're trying to make an ex post pension adjustment. We see the results of everything. According to KSH data, the number of pensioners who live in relative poverty increased by 28,000 per month in one year, i.e. less than 93,000 forints per month. In one year, as old as Esztergom's entire population, 28,000 people have gone into poverty. People who have worked with honor every day for 40 to 50 years. If there is any human achievement that deserves appreciation, it is just those who have worked through their lives. Watch out! Why won't you admit all this? Instead, you have abolished the increase in pensions with wages, excluded hundreds of thousands of elderly people, and have been tricking around inflation for years to cover it up: Hungarian pensions are enough for less and less. If they don't change that, the situation will only become more dramatic, because because of the weak forints, there will be more and more increases. Before they start to spin without thinking, remember what the pension calculation method of the Gyurcsány government was like. It wasn't cheating, it wasn't deceiving, I was just telling you, pensions were tied to wages at the time. If the employee made more money, the pensioner was better off. You took that away from the elderly. Today, you are lying about valuelessness, but the vast majority of pensioners receive almost 100,000 forints less pension than average wage earners. A hundred thousand forints, that's the difference today between an average employee and an average pensioner's income, because of you. That's what they took from the people who worked and taxed their lives through this country. As a party of European Hungarians, DK proposes to you what you should do right now if you have a little humanity, just a little bit. The Democratic Coalition has tabled a legislative amendment proposal which would lead to an immediate 4 percent pension increase. Support this proposal. It's nothing compared to what you've taken away from the elderly in recent years, and it's nothing more than fire fighting. That would be just enough so that the pension does not run out by the end of the third week, so that the elderly can shop even at the end of the month. They can't say we're populists, we don't demand a tower clock with a chain, we just need a 4-percent pension increase. As a European Hungarian, we just want to make sure that at least the current low pension is not less every month. That's all we want. Because we respect the elderly. Please do the same, because you know the people are still asking for it. But if you don't want to stall, I suggest you vote for this four percent. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause in DK's ranks.]]
u2020-02-20-10	Thank you very much, Congressman. The answer, honourable Member, will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-02-20-11	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, If you think about it, honourable Member, you stand up here demanding a lot of things out loud. [[László Varju: No, only a 4-percent pension increase.]] But which was the only government, and who were the representatives in Hungary who in the years following the regime change reduced the pension paid by Hungarian people from their pension contributions to pensioners? Who were the only ones? [[László Varju: Now we only ask for a 4-percent pension increase! A lot of noise, a lot of interruptions. The president's ringing the bell.]] One by one, you and your fellow Members stood up in a roll-call vote before 2010 and all of you said yes to a single pension reduction in Hungary's history after 2010. [[László Varju: Retirement correction!]] Now he calls it a pension correction. But you can wrap it up nicely, Your Honour. You can call a lot of things, you can call a lie speech a truth speech, but you were the only ones who reduced pensions in Hungary. [[Gergely Arató: During the Gyurcsány government there was a 13th month pension, not now!]] It's just a blur on the cake of how little they've handed over their pension fund. Their own minister also said that the deficit was around HUF 200 billion, while it was actually around HUF 400 billion. And you, who have reduced pension for pensioners in Hungary alone for the last thirty years, now stand up and say that you are demanding a higher pension. You, who didn't even vote for 40. [[László Varju: 4 percent increase, please.]] They did not even vote here in Parliament to allow mothers to retire after 40 years of working and raising children. This was also not voted after 2010. Before 2010, however, it was voted to reduce pensions for everyone, for men, for women, for children, for people with many children, for everyone, honourable Member. After that, he gets up and says he's got a stomach for what he sees about retired people. Well, then, what you have done may be constrained, honourable Member, because you have taken away from Hungarian pensioners, from one year to the next, the pension of Hungarian pensioners has been reduced. [[László Varju: It's not true!]] You can yell that it is not true, honourable Member, but you have. Here in Parliament, one by one in these benches, you have voted for this by name, honourable Member. Not to mention that it was you in the Gyurcsány government, but also in the Horn government, who always wanted to tax pensions so that pensioners would still be sabotaged, honourable Member. [[10.00]] You have not been able to create a system such as us, which is an inflation-following pension system, because pensioners' pensions are always, in any case, safe. [[Laszlo Varju: Lies!]] We have set up a system in which they can't go bad, because if inflation is lower than planned inflation, they will get the difference and they will be included in their pensions. If it is higher than the planned inflation, they will receive the entire amount retroactively. [[László Varju: 4 percent!]] and the next year's retirement [[László Varju: That's not true!]] This taller one will be incorporated into their next year's pension. The reason why the customer has risen... you said, honourable Member, that it is also false to say that the government is always underplanning inflation. In many cases, the planned inflation was above the real one, so it was 10.3 percent that was incorporated into pensions because the government was expecting higher inflation. [[Laszlo Varju: In 10 years!]] And it finally got smaller. There were times when inflation was accurate, when it was lower, when it was higher. The point is, pensioners can't go bad in any case, but in the case of [[Intervention from the opposition benches: Always!]] lower inflation, you can also win the difference and in the long term integrate. What have you done compared to this? Fifteen times they raised the rent for the pensioners? Hospital allowances and visits have been introduced, Your Honour? Is this what you used to help pensioners do their day-to-day? Compared to this, we also try to help you with a pension premium, Erzsébet's voucher, a certificate and a one-time grant. You like to call yourself European Hungarians, those who once called themselves Moskovita Hungarians, now call themselves European Hungarians, this is only the beauty of history. But if you look at Eurostat statistics, what was the proportion of pensioners at risk of poverty and social exclusion in 2010? Nineteen percent. How much now? Fourteen-five. [[Gergely Harvesto: Statistics can handle anything! The president's ringing the bell.]] Then what was the proportion of pensioners exposed to severe material deprivation? 16.2 percent. How much now? 6.0, Your Honour. These are all reductions, and your arguments are also refuted by the very popular European bodies and the European Statistical Office, honourable Member. The value of the extra benefits that we have paid in respect of pensioners in recent years, because these people who built this country after the war, who raised the current generation, we owe a great deal of it, so the value of the extra benefits, the Elizabeth vouchers, pension premium, pension supplement, pension certificate, one-off allowance is HUF 273 billion, honourable Member. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And if you compare the situation in Europe and Hungary, you see that relative income poverty in the EU is 15.1 percent for pensioners, and in Hungary it is 10 percent, so it is only two thirds. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-20-12	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear House, Let's pay for the damages. Mr Tamás Harangozó, Member of the MSZP Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-20-13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, We are here in Parliament today because you wish to discuss urgently the untenable nature of the so-called prison business phenomenon and the fidesz response to it. Let us be honest: it is indeed right to irritate the average person that the taxes paid on his most worked work may pay compensation to convicted criminals, especially if these convicted criminals have committed violent crimes or even manslaughter. It is likely that Hungarian citizens are also irritated by the fact that, for example, the former Fidesz Mayor of Balmazújváros, who has been sentenced to five years in prison because of the disappearance of public money, is still on the loose and has not gone to prison for more than two years. If anyone wants to meet him, he can be seen dancing in the bars of Balmazújváros. It is likely that the Prime Minister of Hungary is also irritated by the fact that he is making a campaign video with a convicted criminal, and that this man is only now, when this question has been placed on the table, taken away in a hurry and will finally be replaced. And it is also likely that Hungarian citizens are irritated by the fact that your former fellow Member, who was also sentenced to permanent prison for the removal of public funds, is sitting in luxury conditions in Kecskemét, the so-called VIP department. But if we really want to look for the truth in this case, let's see what actually caused this situation. For one thing, prisons are overcrowded. What has the Orbán government been doing for the last ten years to make sure that doesn't happen? In addition to the fact that they announced about five times that they were building new prisons, there was no cutting of a hoe. Here in Hungary, the two new prison objects of 800 people were handed over in Tiszalök and Szombathely during the MSZP government, since then nothing has happened in this area. This is one of the foundations of what we see today. The other basis for this is the bill adopted here in Parliament in 2016, on the basis of which to be kind, not to lie, and not to mislead the people. The court has no choice but to judge these compensations on a conveyor belt, because you have tabled and adopted this law in this Parliament. Mr Trócsányi was the rapporteur, your Fidesz MEP, and I will pay particular attention to what Mr Pál Völner is going to say here today. After all, if I remember correctly, he argued, in addition to this bill here in Parliament, how great it would be, while the then head speaker of the MSZP said specifically and literally that he would cause enormous damage within a year or two and that the number of compensations to be paid would be a problem. You didn't move your ears. Ladies and gentlemen, Once the prison situation is on the agenda, you would expect a decent government to remember at least a little in such a proposal those who work in these institutions and institutions, the number of employees, the shortage of numbers, the overtime, the unsustainablely low salaries and the malfunctions that are already there today. We don't know how you plan on reducing prison congestion until September 30th. We don't know if you want thousands of people pardoned, maybe let them out on the street, we don't know if in six months you want to upgrade enough prisons that you haven't been able to make in ten years, or what kind of solution you're going to find. But if we compare these, we can be absolutely certain that the situation that has arisen is the responsibility of the Orbán government and, personally, the parliamentary representatives of the Fidesz faction and the KDNP representatives. We will therefore come up with a proposal that is sufficiently reassuring for taxpayers and that will solve the situation fairly. We have tabled an amending proposal not only to suspend the payment of these compensations from the budget, but also to recommend that the victims who are responsible for the whole situation pay. We propose that, until the situation is resolved, these funds will be transferred from the budget support of the Fidesz faction, in case it is not enough, from the fees of fellow Members or members of the government. [[Moraj and interventions from the pro-government benches: György Magyar!]] Finally, be responsible and feel at last that you are not here as a nodger, but should consider in substantive debates what proposals you are voting for. And, fellow Members, if you have some courage and do not agree, squeeze out two lines in the national consultation, and then ask the Hungarian people if they would agree that this should not be paid from their tax dollars, but from the decision-making politicians. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Last sentence, Mr. President. When we're through with this, be nice to take some time to compensate the disabled, too, okay? What this Parliament has been indebted to us for a year now is that we will finally award the compensation to these people, once and for all, by reimbursing the law that you have passed. Thank you for listening.
u2020-02-20-14	Thank you very much, Congressman. Honourable Congressman, The answer will be given by State Secretary Pál Völner. Here you go, Secretary of State.
u2020-02-20-15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, György Magyar has a Hungarian voice in the Hungarian Parliament: Tamás Harangozó is called. There's a bit of discreet charm to that, again, I have to say that before 2010, there was a Minister of Justice and Police, Tibor Draskovics, whose advisor you were. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: What about prisons?]] That's probably true, because at that time, [[The president's gonna ring the bell.]] In 2008-2009 there was a debate on the need to create intimate rooms in prisons, I do not know that this proposal could be linked to its advisory activities. [[Defiance in the pro-government ranks.]] But it's part of how you practically imagine punishment, attitude towards criminals, and part of what you consider a prison. That was just an introduction. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: As you have your ships! No reason. The president's ringing the bell.]] The other part of the matter is that prison congestion is not a new phenomenon, but, if you take the current figures as a basis, it was always present in Hungarian reality. You were lucky, because at that time the Helsinki Committee, the TÁSZ and the others did not consider it important to make this work in Strasbourg and to bring damages lawsuits against the Hungarian State. By the way, for example, Miklós Hagyó, who is perhaps well-known from their group, was also compensated in Strasbourg at the time. [[10.10]] Or should I say János Zuschlag, who has also increased your ranks [[An uproar in the benches of Jobbik and DK. Gergely Harvesto: But you pay him his salary!]] And they had to be paid for by this government and by the current taxpayers, just to make this story sound embedded. The other part: you have constantly diluted Hungarian criminal policy. Technically, after 2010, we fixed this. [[Gergely Harvester: You can see that.]] Punishment follows criminals, criminals have their place in prison, and practically the kind of concessions that are in front of the House right now in relation to conditional release, which can prevent or better retaliate against the horrific crimes that unfortunately occur in today's Hungarian reality. [[Péter Ungár: How much do the Bv workers earn?]] The other part is that we have actually presented to this House the kind of compensatory proposal that we expected this business to cease. Things are running out, everybody's calming down, they're going home. Instead, what did we see? Same lawyers, same organizations. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: What about the fidesz lawyers? There's a lot of noise in the opposition benches.]] They're gonna start lawsuits for whatever reason they're gonna say. There aren't just square meters of disputes. Vane the bug that flew in? I report that it may even occur in Parliament during today's drawing periods, which have occurred here. Here, we'd be suing for sunbathing, hot water supply. They will sue the Hungarian state for any reason. I understand that you're with these people, these lawyers, these organizations. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: You put in the bill!]] There was a vote just this week when we voted to put this issue on Parliament's agenda. [[Constant interruptions, noise in the opposition benches. The president's ringing the bell.]] You did not vote for this. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Yes, no!]] You are not on the taxpayer's side, but on the party of those who want to continue to deduct these damages. [[Dr. Tamás Harangozó: You did the prison business!]] The other, if you carefully read the proposal that is in front of Parliament... [[Noise. Dr. Tamás Harangozó: Follow the current legislation that we voted for.]]
u2020-02-20-16	Congressman Bell.
u2020-02-20-17	...then you can see in it what goals we have set ourselves. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: You're a very bad liar... Dr. Ágnes Vadai: You can't do that!]] You can see that there will be time, months of time here in Parliament to discuss the question of how to make compensations and compensations [[Gergely Arató: This is not the debate!]] I'm sorry to bring compensation to the victims because you don't talk about the victims. You're just talking about the criminals and the people who are at this moment...
u2020-02-20-18	Congressman Bell.
u2020-02-20-19	... they're falling off this money. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó: Imagine, we supported it! Intercoms in the benches of DK and Jobbik.]] Another part of the matter is that they may be bullied to exclude lawyers from this money stream and to refer directly to accounts that are held by the right holders in this indemnification process. [[Continued noise and interruptions in opposition benches.]] And we want to work out a way for those who were actually victims to benefit from it. If you don't support this, your souls are on it, but don't be upset. [[Dr. Tamás Bellozó's intervention:]] Then I should have voted on the agenda, and that's all I can say again. The other part of prison construction isn't true! We handed over a prison hospital in Berettyó's new village, last year we handed over a prison of almost 500 people in Kiskunhalas. There's a program going on. Another issue is that, in practice, budgetary aspects must always be taken into account. But you're always yelling that there's too much shortage. Please spend it on schedule and create conditions, and by autumn we will make sure there is no over 100 percent congestion. And don't expect us to release your criminal buddies. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches. Interjection in the same place: That's right! Dr. Tamás Bellozó: That's very good news!]]
u2020-02-20-20	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, When do they finally understand that they can't do anything, and they can't just run over anyone for their own enrichment? Mr Zoltán Magyar applied for a speech before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-20-21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Dear Secretary of State, I'm sure you didn't miss the Tokaj wine destruction scandal. We're talking about Grand Tokaj Zrt., which, I stress, is a state-owned company. Here in the last six months, from the summer of last year, a squad has continuously and indiscriminately destroyed the entire national wine supply from the 1960s to the past, which was found in the cellars of Tokaj, the Szeg cellar. It can be considered that this is a loss, a loss, a loss, a loss of the national economy, in terms of the minimum price for producers. There's a lot of evidence, video footage, audio recordings, pictures, and different tables. For example, let me tell you what this squad had on an average working day. The 2000 vintage 6 puttony aszú had to destroy 1612 pieces, more than 13,000 bottles of dry samorodni in 2008 and nearly 10,000 bottles of esencia went into the trash bin; but I tell you, this is just one task. But unfortunately, the wine region has not only come before us recently because of this terrible news, but it has also affected this area, these vine producers most, and of course it is not a coincidence. After all, the berry growers who live here have been waiting for many years for their problems to be answered by the government, some sort of solution. They had suggestions. These were sent to you through me, but unfortunately, no meaningful response has been received since then. All you've done is tell the berry growers there that they don't expect to take one grain of grapes from them, and in this way they've practically been forced into green harvesting. So they made some EU money, some alms, in exchange for their year-round effort not to harvest, but to submerge the curls unripely. It is no wonder, therefore, that the Tokaj wine region and many other domestic wine regions are taking a huge step towards total destruction, at least in the sense that traditional families, who have lived for several generations, have been destroyed, and that there is a concentration of property in these areas, which you obviously do not regret, since the oligarchs that are associated with you are typically getting the best vineyards, as is the case in Tokaj-Hegyalya. But let's turn back to the Grand Tokaj. And, Secretary of State, since, in order, when we ask you sensitive questions, we are constantly receiving answers that either contain accusations or false accusations, so let us state a few facts from the beginning, what are the answers that are not acceptable. For example, a reference to the wine law. In the destruction of millions of bottles, which you have recognised as having no food safety risk, please do not refer to the wine law. If, at any time in your own interest, you wished for the interests of your relatives, the interests of your buddies, you called an extraordinary parliamentary meeting, or you cheated that legislation through the House with extreme urgency, but interestingly, millions of bottles of wine have not had time to save in the last ten years. Nor should you defend yourself with distillation and distillation in the European Union, as this system has obviously not been designed to rescue or destroy an entire national wine reserve in this way, and this is not what happened to it, but it has been put in Kunfehérto in a factory where, by industrial distillation, winter windscreen washing liquid has become largely from the wine produced in Tokaj-Hegyalja, which is part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site, while there was a sensible use of it. For example, in order to say nothing else, distilleries asked if they would like to steam it down, buy this wine quantity for cefreas. They were driven away in addition to being told that there really was no quality problem with this wine, but they could simply not sell it, i.e. a loss-making public company could not at least reduce its losses by selling this quantity if they refused to sell it to wine. But why wouldn't they? And here comes the twist in the story: deresla. Tokaj-Hegyalja's second largest winery is in the hands of Lőrinc Mészáros, your favorite oligarch, who has been disturbed for years by the fact that the competition is operating under state-doting. Now it seems that there is actually a market cleanup in the background and that they are trying to make sure that he can put more profits in his pocket. Besides, since Lőrinc Mészáros set foot in the region, he has been expanding as a baby ball, also to the detriment of local wine producers and vine producers. I look forward to your substantive response, Mr State Secretary. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] in addition to the names of the specific persons responsible. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-20-22	Thank you very much. Honourable Congressman, Mr Sándor Farkas replied to his statement before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-02-20-23	Thank you very much. Mr President, Honourable Congressman, First of all, I would like to respond directly to your question, your thoughts, that the Grand Tokaj does not belong to the Agricultural Ministry, first of all. That's, I think, a crucial question. [[Péter Ungár: Then why does he answer?]] It's a completely different profession, and it doesn't belong to the Ministry. [[Gergely Harvesto: Answer the person responsible!]] I would therefore also like to tell you, however, that you have repeatedly demanded that the Hungaricum Committee sit down on this matter. I would also like to provide you or you with objective information. The Hungaricum Act does not authorize the Hungaricum Committee to act on consumer, economic and financial matters. [[Hungarian Zoltán: Change it! We'll vote for it.]] [[10.20]] With regard to the specific case, I can say that Grand Tokaj Zrt. hasn't called back wine from trade in several years, destroyed millions of Hungaricums and wasted state wealth. Contrary to the rumors published in the press, the wine was closed in 2014 and then returned from trade, along with scheduled technological processes. These are bottled drinks, owned by the company before 2010, but unfortunately they do not comply with the legal requirements, the Tokaj product specification and the rules on the protection of origin. That is why they need to be reevacuated, which is a very regrettable event, but it is done consciously and with permission, in order to protect the credibility of clean, origin-protected Tokaj wines. The Grand Tokaj is carrying out the current return, as has been done so far, legally and technologically, in compliance with excise and official regulations, and in accordance with waste management and environmental standards. Honourable Congressman, You have tried to refer to other issues, even last year, we believe that you have introduced extremely successfully, and at the expense of the wine producers that have solved the difficulties of the market, which may result from overproduction, a step that you have applied with different indications, and that is the question of green harvesting. In meeting with the experts of countless wine regions and supporting their opinions, the first thought of the wine-growing farmers was indeed an apologies for the expression, many said that they would rather cut off their hands than cut off a green bunch. But life has been proven, and indeed, this solution has been very helpful to drain the vast quantities of wine reserves accumulated from 2018, and very many farmers have taken advantage of it. This occurred in about 13-14 percent of the wine-growing area, and the compensation received by farmers and wine-growing producers in order to... I do not want to overdo it, but there are areas where the wine-growing farmers who have undertaken this process may have been better off, taking into account market conditions. At the same time, another market regulation instrument was launched, and this was nothing more than the possibility of distillation with genuine EU support. With this, we managed to normalize and sort out a significant part of those stocks of wine, which, if a good year is expected, and if we look out into the border now, we look out into the world, we feel and see an early spring, we have started cuttings, and it is likely that this year can be a good, good wine year, so that the quantities of wine that are produced this year may have a greater advantage in a market situation. Honourable Congressman, I have met several Deputy Foreign Ministers these days, and I am very pleased, too, and I would like to inform you that there seems to be an increasing interest in highly high quality Hungarian wines. This requires an appropriate quantity of goods, and I believe that marketing and market players can take on and solve this. One more point: the reference to the wine law. A new wine law is expected to be presented this year, which will respond adequately to the thoughts raised by you. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-20-24	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Mr András Aradszki applied for a speech from the KDNP Group on the title of Law, Morals and Truth. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-20-25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr President, Dear House, One of the main topics of recent weeks is the legal proceedings and the consequences of segregation in Gyöngyöspata. There was a situation during the first decade of the new century, when during socialist-liberal government, primary school education was conducted in Gyöngyöspatá with the separation of Gypsy and non-Gypsy children. The governments at the time allowed it, ignored it. They must have done this because, as far as possible, Gypsies and Gypsies did work effectively with a class where there were only cumulative underprivileged ones, and with another which they did not go with Gypsies and Gypsies. Initiators of court proceedings due to segregation, some demagogic, pseudo-rights organizations say it is not good for a school to function well and effectively. [[Gergely Harvester: Shame on you!]] It was thought that these institutions and their maintainers, as well as teachers trying to work there, should be punished instead of respect and help. As we should have respected and helped or should have helped the School and Kindergarten of Miklós Sony in the Huszártelep of the Greek Catholics of Nyíregyháza, and workshops of similar cumulative disadvantages. These institutions are not gypsy schools or segregation schools, but places where, regardless of the colour of the skin, there is the expertise needed to teach disadvantaged children and are not afraid to use it for the benefit of children. So far, my incomprehension based on common sense. However, I already find it outrageously immoral to impose, under a law, an amount of compensation which cannot be met without virtually total destruction or destruction of the person or institution who has been punished. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Why doesn't it bother you how much Lőrinc Ripper puts in his pockets? The president's ringing the bell.]] The legislation that makes such a decision possible is, in my belief and belief, deeply unfair and destructive, because it does not facilitate a reassuring solution to the case, but creates new, in many cases larger problems. [[Szabolcs Szabó: You generate it!]] Such rules must be changed because they cannot be accepted with conscience. The court that decides to do so acts legally permissible, but in fact unjustly. [[Szabolcs Szabó: What is the judgment of the court? How is that, my colleague?]] The law is ours, but the truth is independent of us. The truth transcends man, it is written in our soul, and in creation all good senses become poured into us. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Wow! That's why it's esoteric.]] and it's obvious to a well-meaning man. Going against the order of creation always means disaster [[Intervention from opposition parties: Aren't you ashamed?! The president's ringing the bell.]] Therefore, the legal order must serve the truth, otherwise it will be a source of even greater trouble, as is evident in the case of Gyöngyöspata. I'm telling you this because this bigger problem artificially and intentionally contrasts the Gypsy with the non-Gypsy. The adverse circumstances do not alleviate and unfairly illuminate the possibility of a different kind of life, where a large amount of money can be obtained without work. [[Gergely Harvesto:...in Parliament! Demercation in the ranks of opposition parties.]] The people who are now placed in favor of their short - term, dead - end material interests with the promise of money, that is, deceived by them, are generally fundamentally well - intentioned. However, neomarxist phony rights defenders imported from abroad intend to [[Gergely Harvesto interrupts:...neomarxist?]] to fight with a majority of Christian traditions, just to cause scandals and destroy them. I trust that, standing on the ground of Hungarian justice, law, justice and morality, it is able to make a decision by which it will ensure, in whole or in part, the remedy of the disadvantages suffered in education. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes. Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-20-26	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Secretary of State Bence Rétvári, I would like to point out to my fellow Members the new Parliamentary Act 46. I consider this important for the notaries, in particular, in the coming period. The answer will be given by Secretary of State Bence Rétvári. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Understood!]]
u2020-02-20-27	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, A few weeks ago, everyone on the Internet could see that George Soros [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Whoa!]] published videos with his son and several leaders in his own organisations. In this he called the opposition politicians in Hungary, the Roma in Hungary, into a fight. They also said such sentences that Roma integration will be complete in Hungary if everyone who belongs to the Roma society objects to the government obviously thinking of the national government, against the policy of the Fidesz-KDNP government, so according to him the integrated Roma citizen who is anti-government. György Soros and his own employees said such and similar hairbending sentences to the Soros network: in connection with the Gypsy and Gypsy case, they want to gain political benefits and partly financial benefits by stimulating the tension between Hungarians and Gypsies. [[10.30]] I think Hungarian people don't like it when they play with them and want to use them, and Hungarian gypsy people don't like it when they want to use them. It is therefore good that a national consultation is launched, that the Hungarian people say that such and similar judicial judgments are considered fair, effective, or that they think that the right direction is different to improve the situation of disadvantaged people. There has been a very positive development from the events of the last few days that the Curia has decided, among other things, on the motion of the school district and the municipality as school supporters, to deal with the pearl Pata case as a matter of urgency. This means that the decision in Curia is not expected in autumn, but will begin to be negotiated already in April, and there is a good chance that the Curia will have a decision in spring. So, in parallel, people will have the opportunity to express their views in the national consultation, and we hope that in the legal procedure they will also take into account arguments that have not been taken into account so far, since despite the description of the municipality and the district, they have not taken into account why compensation is granted to students with a very high number of unauthorized absences who have not participated in teaching classes of a hundred magnitude. Or why did the court set compensation for a semester when the student was actually in Canada? Why does the previous court decision not take into account that going to school is not only a right, but also an obligation, each one's obligations must be fulfilled at school, and the other students must be guaranteed the right to learn? We hope that the Curia will also examine why this school, this class, these academic years have not been studied in previous procedural stages, and have provided training in accordance with the National Basic Training Plan and the minimum conditions, so the training there has been in line with the legal requirements. We hope that the Curia will also examine why, if there was an expert opinion that found in the procedure that students were classified not on the basis of origin, but on the basis of abilities, and not on the basis of skin colour, but on the basis of study results and abilities, it did not take this expert opinion into account, why the judgment merely mentions that it was such an expert opinion, why it did not address its content. And most of all, we hope that we will finally get an answer from the Curia as to why neither the first instance nor the second degree court has dealt in substance with the school maintenance initiative to receive compensation not in cash, but in training, education, training, occupation, but in any way in the course of an additional service compensating for the educational and educational work they have missed. After all, with common sense, we would think that if one considered the quality of education to be lower than that of others, he would ask for this difference in nature and in the form of teaching. The State will thus assume additional liability: if these trainings were to be provided more than the HUF 100 million amount in the court's judgment, the State will also undertake this, and obviously we will also undertake the additional organizational work in this case. At the end of January, the district of study and the municipality sent a letter offering the possibility of this trial. What we have seen earlier is that the foundation funded by Soros has tried to keep everyone from doing so and to convince them, in a coordinated manner, not to participate in such consultations, but, in the last few days, three students received feedback in writing that was open to negotiations in order to ensure the compensation that the court had previously granted, not in the form of cash, but in the form of education and training. We hope that we can continue on this path. [[The President shall ring a bell to indicate the expiry of the time limit.]] Although the three are still small compared to more than 60 participants, we are confident that the negotiations will lead to success. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-20-28	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear Parliament, Mr István Bajkai, Member of the Fidesz Group, spoke before the agenda. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-20-29	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, In March this year, the Government of Hungary again asks the opinion of the Hungarian people in important decisions, which Prime Minister Viktor Orbán announced in his annual speech. Since 2010, civil governance has conducted eight national consultations, which is one of the most important means of dialogue, since Hungarian citizens can express their views directly on an important issue. Based on these, we have also taken decisions on the Fundamental Law, on the reduction of debts, on social issues, on bank tax, on family support, on immigration policy, and on the rejection of the Soros plan. On these issues, we continue to enforce the will of the Hungarian people, and we are convinced that we are acting in the interests of the majority of Hungarian people. In recent months, a number of cases have triggered a major debate in Hungary that the government would like to ask for the opinion and mandate of the Hungarian people again, because serious international and domestic debates are expected on these issues. We need to create points of agreement and milestones, which will require the authorisation and opinion of the Hungarian people. Unfortunately, the situation in Europe has been that decision makers living in the net and network of Balliberal Anarchist ideas have more important rights for violent criminals than the rights of law-abiding people and victims, because there are prisoners who, with the help of their lawyers, sue millions of forints from the state on the grounds of bad prison conditions. So far, convicted criminals have filed 12,000 lawsuits against the Hungarian state, and this has only cost Hungarian taxpayers 8.5 billion forints. It can therefore be concluded that the so-called prison business has now become a kind of industry, a business. And let's not forget that the victims are behind these crimes. Have you ever looked into the eyes of a victim who lost everything while criminals were out on Adriatic yachts on vacation? [[Uproar, outbursts from the opposition. Dr. Agnes Vadai: That's good. We saw the Adriatic yacht! We didn't want to see it, but unfortunately, we saw the socks. We saw the father! The president's ringing the bell.]] Did he consider you such a criminal? In his eyes, who, as a raped lady, couldn't start a family, while the unsub has lived his world ever since? Did he look at her in the eye like that? A very significant 30-40 percent success fee is awarded to organisations and their hired lawyers from the Soros network financed from abroad, or a well-known member of the Balliberal opposition, György Magyar, a lawyer who does not go next door if he has to ask for advice on how to acquire a customer. The TASZ and the Helsinki Committee are conducting a real campaign between prisoners for new orders, which is apparently also a business for them: simultaneously hit (sic!) a process and source of revenue against Hungarian taxpayers at the same time. Criminals are not rewarded with money, they are punished, and prison business is an abuse of law. We ask the Hungarian people to give their views on this issue as well in the national consultation. They can decide whether they prefer to support or oppose the possibility of damages lawsuits and that the compensation money is given to the prisoners or victims. Also in recent years, there has been a great deal of confusion about the damage caused by the Roma in Gyöngyöspata. We would like the Hungarian people to give their views on this topic as much as possible. In the small town, even during the Balliberal Government, Roma and non-Roma children were taught physically for several years. After 2010, when the state took over the maintenance of schools, it ended this situation. The court finally ruled that the state and the municipality would have to pay compensation of HUF 100 million to the Roma families in the case of a lawsuit that had been launched for segregation at the time. [[10.40]] We do not dispute that children have been harmed, but we are convinced that they must be compensated not by money, but by education, development, training and language learning. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: What's it got to do with you guys spending the damages?]] This will help them to make real progress in life, to gain a diploma, a profession, or even a further education. That's how they'll have jobs, incomes, livelihoods in the future. I trust that, like previous consultations, the Hungarian people will once again express their views and give the government the power to make the necessary decisions, which we can decide here in the Spring Session. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-20-30	Thank you very much, Congressman. Honourable Congressman, Dear House, State Secretary Pál Völner responds to the speech before the agenda. Here you go, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor.
u2020-02-20-31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Honourable Congressman, Indeed, it is very important to have a system of national consultations, which gives voters the opportunity to express their views directly during the election period, on important issues of social interest, such as prison congestion, the compensation side of which is a legitimate violation of the sense of justice of all taxpayers. How did we get here? After 1990, Hungary joined the European Convention on Human Rights, from which to date Strasbourg and the Council of Europe Ministerial Committee will guide these decisions. It's been two decades and nothing's happened. The Hungarian prison conditions were not better 20-30 years ago, practically the saturation, the conditions and the comfort level have improved in the past period. Nevertheless, we have seen that after the 2010 change of government, the human rights protection organizations that belong to György Soros's network, such as the Helsinki Committee or the Company for Freedom Rights, sued the Hungarian state in a series of cases due to prison conditions. These conditions are considered to be torture and humiliation of human dignity; and the Court of Strasbourg, deciding on cases, has established a case law in which it has sentenced the Hungarian State to penalties of more than EUR 10 thousand, and at the end, practically without examining the merits of the cases, in order to force it to establish an internal regulation, based on so-called objective circumstances, which sets the amount of compensation per day between 3 and 4 square metres. At the same time, I must stress that prison conditions have not deteriorated. It was just to Mr Harangozó, in reply to a speech before the agenda, that we had recently handed over a prison hospital on the New Wall of Berettyó, in Kiskunhalas, a prison of almost 500 seats was established. So also in this area is the expansion of the seats; these are modern facilities. Nevertheless, they keep us on the verge of being held in Strasbourg, because even though we have consistently complied with the judgments, they will be treated as unsolved cases by the Commission for as long as he sees fit. Once again, statistics are being produced to discredit Hungary in international space. But most importantly, we ask the voters to say that what the government thinks of this business, that it needs to be changed, is the same opinion. Which way should we go? How can we channel the compensation amounts that we have to pay to the victims? How can we prevent a lawyer's prison business, which again attracts hundreds of cases to the lawyers of these activist organizations, of these networks, prisoners in the penitentiary, who are likely to pay these celebrity lawyers very well? The name of György Magyar has been mentioned several times, and several people have indicated that they are carrying 400 pending cases, which would be physically impossible in a normal court case. You can see that this is a process that has been triggered. At the same time, we must ensure that the number of prisons and the number of prisons is increased. So we have to stand on multiple fronts at once. If Parliament can make decisions that the opposition parties did not vote for, including Jobbik, which, unlike its former pro-police image, occurred to me that the leadership of Peter James reminded me a little, as if Ibolya David had reincarnated and played that role at the head of Jobbik. what this lady played at the head of the MDF earlier, without, of course, that kind of intellectual education of the lady. [[An uproar in the ranks of the opposition. Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's why it's...!]] What we experienced at the time, we can see that there is a sharp debate between the opposition and the ruling parties, and it is very important that in the consultation voters take their vote on this issue as well. Thank you for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-20-32	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, Please take your seats. We have reached the end of the speeches before the agenda. I would like to inform the House that Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, from the Jobbik Group, has applied for a speech after today's agenda; Mr Lajos Rig, from the Jobbik Group; Mr Lóránt Keresztes, Member of the Group of the LMP; Mrs Andrea Varga-Damm, from Jobbik; and Mr László Varga, from the Group of the MSZP. Dear Parliament, I declare that yesterday, Mr János Bencsik informed the Speaker of Parliament that he had quit Jobbik's parliamentary group. So the number of Jobbik's faction is down to 20. The Member shall continue his work as an independent member. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]] Dear Parliament, I declare that the Government is the 35th Act on Parliament. T/9241, pursuant to Article 2 (1) of the Act, the Parliament initiated the convening of an extraordinary meeting on the T/9241 on immediate measures to eliminate the abuse of prison congestion indemnities. For the purpose of negotiating bill No 1. The letter and its attachment were available to all of us on the website and also to those interested in it. Dear House, The agenda for our meeting starting today is coming up. We shall decide on the agenda, the duration of the meeting, the speaking time limits on the basis of a proposal put forward by the President. Once again, please take your seats and check that your card has been properly placed in the voting machines. Dear Parliament, Parliamentary resolution on certain house rules 37. Pursuant to Article 1 (1) of the Rules of Procedure, Parliament may decide to negotiate certain items of the agenda in a time-frame. The motion put forward by the President initiates the T/9241 on immediate measures to eliminate the abuse of prison congestion compensation. The Parliament will discuss the number 1 proposal in a five-hour time frame. I would like to inform the Honourable Parliament that, in view of Mr János Bencsik's withdrawal from the political group, the time frame for the faction indicated at the item on the agenda has been changed. I would like to ask Mr László Földi to present the motion for the allocation of the modified timeframe. Here you go, notary. You have the floor.
u2020-02-20-33	Dear Parliament, The proposed five-hour timeframe is divided into 103 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 47 minutes for the KDNP Group, 38 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 32 minutes for the MSZP Group, 25 minutes for the DK Group, 22 minutes for the LMP Group, 21 minutes for the Dialogue Group and 12 minutes for the independent Members. [[10.50]] The time limits provided for the factions include the 20-20 minutes lead speakers.
u2020-02-20-34	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. Ladies and gentlemen, Now it's time for the decision. I ask the Honourable Parliament, he agrees that the proposal will be discussed within a five-hour time frame. Please vote. [[Vote.]] I declare the resolution: the Parliament accepted the hearing of the proposal in a five-hour time frame by 119 votes in favour, 31 against and without abstentions. Dear House, We are now deciding on a proposal on the agenda put forward by the President. I ask the Honourable Parliament to accept the recommendation on the agenda. Please vote by raising your hands. [[Vote.]] It's a visible majority. I declare that the visible majority of Parliament has adopted the agenda. Dear Parliament, A general debate on the bill on immediate measures to eliminate abuses of prison congestion compensation will follow up until closure. The government referral is T/9241. Number 2 is available on the House's IT network. [[Dr. Judit Varga arrives in the Chamber and takes his place. Several pro-government representatives are leaving the Chamber. Noise.]] Dear House, If you are prepared and you put on the microphone, I will give the floor to Minister for Justice Judit Varga, the rapporteur of the item on the agenda, within a 30-minute time frame. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Mr. President, let's not start until the Fidesz fraction moves. Dr. Judit Varga: Should I go upstairs?]]
u2020-02-20-35	Maybe. Madam Secretary, you'd like to give your speech from up here, the pulpit. Of course, this is at your disposal. Madam Secretary. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] Permission is granted by me, not the opposition representatives, so please come up. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] Welcome back. You have the floor, please.
u2020-02-20-36	Mr President, Dear Parliament, The bill's short, my expo won't be too long. With the proposal before you, the government has set itself no less objective than to eliminate immediately the unfair practice of prison conditions and to take the necessary measures to establish a fair system without delay. Please allow me to briefly present the steps envisaged by the bill, their backgrounds and the main reasons. First of all, I think it is necessary to note that the indemnification lawsuits for prison conditions have been almost unknown in the domestic legal system for a long time. Even before the European Court of Human Rights, the number of lawsuits associated with them was small. However, in recent years, some foreign-funded organisations and well-known law firms cooperating with them have recognised the possibility of obtaining money in connection with indemnification cases in Strasbourg. Thanks to this business-like practice, the number of lawsuits in court has increased sharply. As a result, the Court of Strasbourg, examining matters related to Hungary, concluded in the case of the so-called Varga and Others, that because of the repetition and permanence of prison congestion problems and the large number of data subjects, it should decide to introduce an effective remedy procedure beyond theory. In its judgment in Varga and Others, the Court of Justice of Strasbourg called on Hungary to introduce a preventive and compensatory redress mechanism in the context of an infringement of Article 3 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Accordingly, the legislator's original intention was to establish an effective and well-functioning compensation scheme to compensate for the situation at that time, which was set up by the 2013 CCXL on the enforcement of penalties, measures, certain coercive measures and infringement proceedings. The Act introduced an amendment to the Act which entered into force on 1 January 2017. However, experience in recent years has shown that the compensation scheme in this form also provides an opportunity for abusive case-law. As a result, by taking advantage of domestic law protection, these organisations and their lawyers are launching a series of lawsuits in order to provide serious amounts of Hungarian people's money to violent criminals. The perpetrators of crimes that shocked the public could obtain compensations of a million scale, while claims for victims and their relatives are not sufficiently effective. Therefore, the Hungarian government's aim is to stop the prison business, which has now become a multi-billion-dollar industry. The numbers speak for themselves. In recent years, in prison-related indemnification cases, approximately 12,680 decisions have been taken, which took nearly HUF 9 billion from the central budget to the detriment of the Hungarian people. It should be pointed out that only around 10 percent of all this was paid to the victims and 61 percent of all payments were received into the trust accounts of law firms. Dear Parliament, The government condemns the abuse of lawsuits to compensate for prisoners' violations of prison conditions, which also seriously violate the sense of justice of society. We intend to take several steps against this. The first step in this process was this bill, with which we want to put an immediate end to this unfair practice. Our most important task is to ensure that in future the interests and rights of victims, victims and their relatives are focused on the profiteering of criminals. Accordingly, victims, victims, and their relatives can enforce their legitimate needs and do not have to watch the criminals who abuse them pocket millions. The bill provides for the suspension of payments until the adoption of the new regulation, until 15 June 2020 in order to restore the natural rates between compensation schemes for victims of crime and prisoners. As a second step, the government will start a national consultation in order to create a new regulation that faithfully reflects the views of citizens. National consultation is a direct tool for dialogue with Hungarian people. During such consultations, the government receives clear answers from the Hungarian people on issues of fundamental concern to society, thus enforcing the will of the Hungarian people when making decisions on issues of this magnitude. In view of the outcome of the national consultation, the government is committed to creating, as a third step in the process, legislation that has a broad mandate for society and which prioritises victims' rights over prisoners, in which the demands of victims and relatives can be enforced in a faster and more efficient way than currently. To this end, Honourable Parliament, the Government will also be willing to take on international debates. In recent years, thanks to the government's action, we have made significant progress in improving prison conditions. New prisons have been built, detention conditions have been continuously improved [[László Varju: One built!]] , increased room space to ease the crowded conditions, improved the scope of benefits, job opportunities for inmates. The government's aim in this context is neither symptomatic treatment, but a solution to the whole problem, i.e. the overcrowding of prisons as the legal basis for compensation. In view of this, the bill provides that in order to eliminate prison congestion, it is necessary to ensure by 30 September 2020 at the latest that the average utilisation of prison institutions does not exceed 100 per cent, so that it further improves domestic prison conditions. Dear House, Finally, but not least, allow me to draw your attention to the fact that the establishment of the compensation institution was originally intended to provide compensation to the sentenced person or to the other persons detained in title in proportion to the breach of the right due to his or her accommodation conditions. The compensation was specifically personal and started as compensation in proportion to the harm suffered by that person. However, in order to avoid abuse, the bill now states that, as a general rule, the amount established as compensation can be paid to the escrow account managed by the prison institution and that, according to the bill, payment will not be made to a lawyer's deposit account in the future. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]] [[11.00]] In closing, allow me to highlight the following. The government's main objective is to establish, on the basis of the results of the national consultation, a new regulation that eliminates the unfair practices so far and focuses primarily on the interests of victims, victims and their relatives, thereby ensuring that their legitimate claims are met in a more efficient and faster way than currently. I ask this House to support the bill and thank you for your attention. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-20-37	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Dear House, I would remind you that the Parliament has already decided to discuss the general debate on the proposal within a five-hour time frame, but since there has been a change in timeframes due to the change in the number of people in Jobbik, I would like to ask Mr László Földi once again to explain the time frame. Here you go.
u2020-02-20-38	Dear Parliament, The time frame is divided into 103 minutes for the Fidesz Group, 47 minutes for the KDNP Group, 38 minutes for the Jobbik Group, 32 minutes for the MSZP Group, 25 minutes for the DK Group, 22 minutes for the LMP Group, 21 minutes for the PM Group and 12 minutes for the independent Members.
u2020-02-20-39	Thank you very much, Mr. Notary. These timeframes will, of course, also appear on billboards. The speech will now take place in a 20-20-minute time frame. The lead speaker of the Fidesz Group will be Mr Gyula Budai, who will also be speaking here on the stand. We'll wait for Congressman to wake up. [[It's happening.]] Thank you very much. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-20-40	Thank you very much. Dear Madam Secretary, Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, There is nothing surprising about the fact that the opposition parties did not vote to put the government's draft law on prison business on the agenda, since the biggest winner of the prison business was György Magyar, with more than half a billion forints, who started as joint candidate in the Hungarian Parliamentary elections in 2018, and György Magyar provided the legal representation of Gábor Demszky, and is now the advisor of Mayor Gergely Karácsony. In recent years, people's sense of social justice has been thoroughly disturbed by court judgments, which oblige the Hungarian State to pay large amounts of financial compensation, namely those who committed a crime and are therefore serving a final sentence of imprisonment. These prisoners and prisoners claim that the Hungarian state does not provide them with humane conditions. Within the framework of the prison business, the left-wing liberal and the Soros network lawyers filed nearly 12,000 damages lawsuits against the Hungarian state. Gergely Fahidi, lawyer at the Helsinki Committee, made HUF 516 million in 324 cases, lawyer György Magyar earned HUF 521 million in 419 cases. [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame! Dr. Ágnes Vadai: Tiborcz and Butcher also received!]] Dániel Karsai and Dániel Karsai, acting as a partner of the Helsinki Commission and TASZ, earned HUF 86 million in 83 cases. [[An intervention from the ranks of Fidesz: Shame. Gergely Harvesto: You're jealous, aren't you?]] The state paid nearly HUF 9 billion in compensation to criminals and lawyers, and it is not surprising that nearly 70 percent of the amount paid landed on legal deposit accounts. The nearly 10 billion-dollar industry called prison business clearly realizes the abuse of law, damages the Hungarian state, destroys public trust in justice and violates the sense of justice of the people. Ladies and gentlemen, It is unacceptable that murderers like the Italian lynchmen receive HUF 5-6 million, the Battonya monster receives HUF 2 million, and the Burka family received HUF 45 million due to their successful indemnification lawsuit, despite the fact that they committed extremely serious anti-life crimes. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that legal representation is not mandatory in these damages cases, so there is no legal representation of lawyers in these cases, and even in 2015, the Helsinki Commission provided a sample of earnings in prisons that the convicts can turn directly to the court. Lawyers from the left-wing liberal and the Soros network have settled on prisoners and prisoners and have developed prison business into an industry. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to present a letter that I received from the person teaching prisoners in a prison in Hungary. Thus, the quote would serve as a single addition to the question of the success fee for which lawyers undertake to represent their clients. That could be up to 50 percent, which I heard from the mouth of a prisoner who had no reason not to tell the truth. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai laughing: A prisoner!]] Dear House, Dear Madam Secretary, As we have heard in the initial speech of its authors, the Government strongly condemns the abuse of proceedings brought to compensate for prisoners' violations of prison conditions, while at the same time representing a firm position that the rights and interests of victims of the crime should be protected to a greater extent. The bill before us therefore seeks to restore the balance between compensation schemes for victims of crime and for prisoners. The proposal would like to call on the Government to establish a new regulatory system for the relief of harm from crime and for the benefit of victims of crime by 15 May 2020. Dear House, I would like to point out that the compensation is specific to a person, given that it is compensation for the harm suffered by that person. This is a very important question. The bill places great emphasis on ensuring that the amount awarded as compensation actually reaches the hands of the sentenced or detained person. That is why the legislator intends to include in the text of the Penalty Act the provision under which the amount established as compensation is to be paid exclusively to a payment account the account holder of which is the sentenced or detained person or, in the case of a detention institution, to an escrow account managed by the penitentiary. Dear Parliament, The proposal before this House states that the amount awarded in the decision on the claim for compensation for accommodation in breach of fundamental rights after its entry into force shall not be paid until 15 June 2020. Of course, prior to the forthcoming entry into force of the proposal, compensation claims will be met in the final judgment on them according to the rules in force. For the fundamental objective of the proposal, it should be stressed strategically that the government should take the necessary measures by 30 September of this year to ensure that the average utilisation of the prisons does not exceed 100 per cent. This latter measure will make a significant contribution to improving detention conditions. Statistical data show that prison conditions in Hungary have improved a lot, that in recent years there have become more seats and that new prisons are constantly being built. [[11.10]] Dear Parliament, On the one hand, the proposal before us is an excellent way of reducing the number of abuses of compensation lawsuits that seriously harm the sense of justice in society, and on the other hand, it seeks to ensure more effective protection of the rights and interests of victims, while also making effective proposals to remedy the prison congestion problem. In Hungary today, it is clear and it must be made clear to everyone that criminals are not rewarded by millions, but by punishment. Dear House, In view of what has been said, the proposed bill is supported by the Fidesz Group. That's what I'm asking of you. Thank you for listening. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-20-41	Thank you very much, Congressman. Honourable Congressman, For you and for the protocol, I would like to point out that the proposal on the agenda has been voted by the Jobbik Group from among the opposition groups. Thank you very much. [[Interviews from Jobbik benches: Thank you very much.]] I now give the floor to Mr Csaba Gyüre, the lead speaker of the Group of Jobbik, who will also speak here on the stand. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-20-42	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear Parliament, Ladies and gentlemen, I think that we are witnessing an incredibly false and lying debate here in Parliament right now, because the person who created this situation in Hungary, who is responsible for this, is clearly the Hungarian government and the Fidesz-KDNP faction. In 2016, you were the ones who were here to the right, opposite me, who presented this, who supported this, who voted in favour of this bill, who wanted this to happen in Hungary. Now you can play the glorious knight, who stands up as the champion of justice, fights for the truth, what the people in Hungary want, can stand up, yes, only because of you, you have been the cause of this whole situation, and I will highlight it in detail in my speech. [[Dr. István Vitányi: It's dark!]] On 10 March 2015, it was the European Court of Human Rights who ordered in its judgment that something should be changed in Hungary, as the Court of Human Rights has consistently judged the damages in Strasbourg. As a result, in 2016 the government submitted T/12179. Bill No. 1. So the petitioner was the government, and his rapporteur was Dr. László Trócsányi, Minister of Justice. What is included in this bill that has been tabled? Well, he deals with compensation: when is compensation due, he asked that question, and the bill answered it. If there is no separate toilet for the inmates, if the ventilation is inadequate, the lighting is inadequate, the heating is inadequate if there are insects, and it has also been found that compensation is due for each day that has been spent in these circumstances, or the State is obliged to pay compensation, the proposal states. The amount has also been determined: it can be a minimum of 1200 forints for one day and a maximum of 1600 forints forints. It follows that a criminal convicted of ten years, who obviously had to commit a very serious crime, could have been given five million forints after ten years or more under this law. But you've paid so much attention to the rights of criminals, that even if this misplaced situation is interrupted for only 30 days, there will be full compensation, even for the days when the prisoner was otherwise in better circumstances. Then they also paid attention to the fact that the compensation received could not be used to deduct all kinds of money, to make the poor prisoners pay all sorts of debts, but only to take into account the child support fee, and in connection with the crime for which they were sitting, to pay compensation, to pay damages, or to satisfy the claim granted for it. So it is clear from this that a law has been adopted that has certainly been useful for the development of this business in Hungary. After that, let's see what happened on September 27, 2016, that's when the Parliament discussed it. It was Pál Völner who spoke on behalf of the government and presented this bill, he told us that we had drawn up an action plan that was sent to the Council of Europe on 9 December 2015 and that we undertook to end prison congestion in this action plan and to develop a remedy system. This redress system has been implemented with this bill, which provides compensation to prisoners in prison due to crowded accommodation conditions. It was also apparent that a very short deadline was set to remedy the injury, and that quite serious amounts, as I said, could be judged after ten years, up to five million or more. They also paid attention to the fact that they received these payments very quickly, since they were set at 60 days, they had to be paid within 60 days at the latest, and that only child support fees, civil rights claims arising from this crime, and damages and damages related to this crime could be set against it. The reasons why this was necessary can be seen from the figures, because in Strasbourg in September 2016, so when we discussed it, there were five thousand cases in progress against the Hungarian State, as the Secretary of State said, which is why it was suggested that we adopt this law. László Salacz was the lead speaker of Fidesz on this day, who made it clear that Fidesz supports this bill. On Jobbik's part, Jobbik did not support this bill, Mr Staudt pointed out that an industry was built to make such money for criminals and prisoners in Hungary. He also pointed out that prisons are overcrowded, and that, above all, in order to avoid compensation in the future, can be resolved by building new prisons. He also said that, if we will adopt this bill, which Parliament has adopted, there will be a huge outrage at social level, as people will not swallow it, so that the prisoners will receive millions from the Hungarian state as compensation. He pointed out that it was absolutely outrageous what satisfactions could be deducted from the compensation amounts alone, and that it would put a convict in a much better position than an average citizen, because, for example, if you only looked at the problem of foreign exchange lenders, foreign exchange credits would be banned from all kinds of income if the court had already awarded them, or if the execution became final, but, for example, a foreign currency loan could not have been counted against the convict, because you have dealt with this issue so highly. Jobbik drew attention to important, major cases, the Cozma case, the Szögi case, that their compensation, the compensation of the victims, should be dealt with in the first place, not the compensation of the inmates. We have also drawn attention to this and that this will cause injustice. In his reply, State Secretary Pál Völner said that the increase in the number of seats is under way. But we saw that this didn't happen. Then the vote followed, during the vote, and on 25 October 2016 alone and only for Jobbik Hungary Movement, who voted against this bill, we who said no to indemnify the inmates in this way so that they could receive millions of compensations. On the other hand, it was the Fidesz-KDNP faction alone and exclusively who voted in favour of this issue. [[11.20]] When Congressman Gyula Budai was the lead speaker of Fidesz, I suppose they were looking at the list to find a Fidesz representative who did not take part in this vote because he wasn't here that day. Because he wasn't voting at the time, so I couldn't bring him up to vote yes. For example, György Balla, Zoltán Balog, István Happy, Károly Kontra, Lajos Kósa, Gábor Kubatov, Dr. Roland Mengyi, Szilárd Németh, Tibor Pogácsás, Antal Rogán, György Simonka, István Tállai , Bence Tuzson, Pál Völner, and everyone from KDNP who was present voted in favour of this issue. So you can see who supported this bill. On 4 November 2016, President János Áder signed the law. That's how we got to this day, so we got to the point where we had a business like this, so we got to the point where the Hungarian state paid billions to criminals who were convicted of billions of dollars a year. That's what we're getting a new bill for. A new bill in which there is a false uproar, because this is obviously a false uproar, because it is you who are responsible for creating this situation. This new bill, which we are discussing today, sets out various objectives: the protection of the interests of the victims of crime, the sense of social justice and the inviolable, inalienable fundamental rights of man in the preamble. Article 1 § 1 is about national consultation, the result of which will be possible to develop a regulatory system. This deadline shall be set by 15 May 2020. In order to eliminate prison congestion, it invites the Government to ensure by 30 September 2020 that the average utilisation of the prisons does not exceed 100%. Well, that's a beautiful thing. Where is there any solution to this? If the government has not been able to solve prison congestion in five years and ten years, it will certainly be able to do so by 30 September 2020 under this legislation and to eliminate prison congestion. Obviously, you can't build prisons, three or four prisons, until September 30th. Otherwise, there is only one way to solve this: to release 15 percent of the prisoners, as many as there are. I am very confident that no one in Hungary wants to solve this situation in this way. Although, who knows, on the part of the ruling parties, anything can happen. So I don't think this can be resolved until this date. There is also a series of propagandas: the compensation amounts cannot be paid until 15 June 2020. Whoo! Now they're not gonna pay me for three months, so again, nothing's gonna be solved at all. There are some interesting parts in the explanatory statement. He said that the government would start a national consultation in order to find out the views of citizens. So now the Fidesz is admitting that you don't know the citizens' opinion on the matter of incarceration? You don't know? Well, that's amazing. I mean, everyone knows that, but you don't know what citizens think about this? Then: eliminate the possibility of abuse of the detention compensation scheme. So you didn't know about this either? Or has the government consciously provided such abuses since 2016? That's amazing. Then did the government cooperate to get a million-dollar compensation for the inmates? So it raises shocking questions when we talk about it. One more sentence on the national consultation. You say that the Fidesz-KDNP says that the aim of the national consultation is to involve voters in the exercise of power. It is interesting that you are asking citizens' opinions on issues that everyone obviously knows very well. That is clearly the case at the moment. However, your opinion is contradictory to reality, as you refuse to involve citizens in the exercise of power in Hungary. This was already stated in the 2010-11s when the possibility of a referendum was completely empty, namely that in Hungary there is virtually no referendum, there is no effective referendum. This is precisely what they tried to do in Hungary so that the people could not be involved in the exercise of power, so that the people could not exercise power directly in Hungary. This has been achieved over the last eight years. The national consultation is just a false propaganda act on your part. There's one more thing I want to talk to you about. State Secretary Csaba Dömötör stated the other day in front of the media that organisations funded from abroad do not want the money to go to the victims, but want it to go to the prisoners. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it is on the basis of the Fidesz-KDNP bill that you accepted in 2016 to make money not on the victims, but on the prisoners. Well, these are false statements, statements that try to deceive the Hungarian citizens perfectly! I'd like to move on to statistics. It can be seen that prisons are overcrowded at the moment, since there is about 114 percent overcrowding. This means that on the 31st December of last year, 16 303 prisoners have a tendency to decline a little, because the number of prisoners in a year has decreased by almost a thousand to 113-114 percent. This means that there should be an increase in prison facilities of around 2,500 people. In 2015-16 we received strong promises that this enlargement will be achieved. On the other hand, the government did nothing. From the HUF 8.5 billion that we are talking about, the Hungarian State has paid for compensation since 2016, it would have been possible to build a detention facility with about a thousand prisoners, and then we could have solved half of the problem. On the other hand, you have decided to pay these amounts instead. I would like to give you some statistics on how this has become a business. In 2013, when it was possible to turn to Strasbourg, the Hungarian State paid HUF 37 million in damages. In 2017, when it was already possible to sue under Hungarian law, it was two thirds of a billion forints, i.e. roughly 670 million forints. In 2018, this increased to HUF 3.5 billion. Between 2016 and 2019 a total of HUF 8.5 billion was paid. But how much the number of court decisions has also increased: in 2017 only 694 indemnification lawsuits were filed and in 2018 3745 were paid on average by the Hungarian courts. And how much more it is worth under this legislation: according to the judgments of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, compensation of HUF 3-6 million was paid per person, while under this legislation only HUF 1 million, but this also means very, very serious amounts. On the other hand, the government has done nothing to expand the seats. Why is this prison business worth it to lawyers? It's worth it because it promises a guaranteed victory. All you have to do is sign the attorney's licenses, get them to the courthouse, get the prize, and the money's coming. That's the system you've been working on. You have talked about a wide range of left-wing and serialist organizations that take advantage of this, but I have read in the media that it was just Fidesz-near law firms that took the most advantage of this opportunity, and they have done their part in making a profit from this business. [[11.30]] By the way, as I was preparing for this speech today, I met the signals of experts from the Helsinki Commission, who already indicated in 2014 that certain law firms were doing business for prisoners to obtain money. So they were the ones who indicated the business-like occupation, and, yes, Fidesz-KDNP was the one who passed the law on the basis of which this business was established in Hungary. So the responsibility, I think, and I know that you are the most responsible in this matter. Jobbik took a consistent pro-police position on this issue in 2010, 2016 and 2020. In short, the reason for the establishment of the prison business was clearly due to the operation of the government and the government parties, on the basis of their bill. Law firms and inmates were able to make business money out of this business, and Jobbik is the only party who voted no, who consistently acted pro-police. We also made the amendments, we also proposed family compensation, we referred to the Szögi-, Cozma cases, we proposed the building of prisons. Mistakes in this proposal: postpones problem solving, does not provide any solution, does not solve overcrowding and does not apologize to people. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Fidesz-KDNP and the government should apologize for the behaviour of the Hungarian people over the past four years. Thank you so much for listening.
u2020-02-20-43	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The KDNP Group indicated that the group's position would be presented by two of its speakers: first by Mr Imre Vejkey, then, second by Mr Lőrinc Nacsa. I give the floor to Congressman Imre Vejkey. There you go. You have the floor.
u2020-02-20-44	Mr President, Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I think it is important to stress that I fully agree with what was said in Minister Judit Varga's exposé and with what was said in the keynote speech of my fellow Member Gyula Buda, and I therefore do not wish to repeat what they have said. So I start by saying that there is a stench in Strasbourg, because the European Court of Human Rights has brought precedents to support prison business in Hungary and Europe, not a little, but a lot. On the basis of the judgment of the Court of Strasbourg and the judgments of the Hungarian courts, the majority of Hungarians are outraged, because while they work as law-abiding citizens from morning to evening to move forward with their families, the prisoners are looking for multiples of the income of the free people without work, with judgments from Strasbourg and Hungary. This is unfair, so we Christian Democrats must speak up, we must amend the law to bring justice to millions of law-abiding Hungarians. Ladies and Gentlemen, Remember that this was not the first move of the Strasbourg court against Hungary. Remember, on 13 March 2017, when, in Brussels, the Communists and the Greens initiated an EU review of the Hungarian legal border closure, threatening our country, in essence, that if we do not change our migration policy, that is to say, we do not allow illegal migrants to enter, we will be deprived of EU funding. In order to strengthen this threat on the day after the event, i.e. on 14 March 2017, the Strasbourg Human Rights Court already condemned Hungary in the case of two Bangladeshi men represented by the Hungarian Helsinki Committee against our country. We're the ones who've been wiped out, and we're the ones who follow the law. We have been removed, who are protecting Europe now and then. And now we are being removed, in specific cases, saying that the given square meter is not enough for one prisoner, and not enough for the comfort zone of the prisoners. Therefore, the verdik is that we are a guilty state and we have to pay compensation for specific cases. The fact is, therefore, that the Strasbourg court and, on the basis of it, the Hungarian courts took the side of criminals from the tax forints of the victims, in order to oblige the Hungarian State to pay compensation in the order of billions of dollars. Is this a forward-looking European law? Is this the forward European case law? This would be European justice in the 21st century. In the century? Our answer is no, because it is a mockery of European law-abiding citizens. Our answer is no, because it's extremely unfair. Our answer is no, because it is also illegal, because prison business is a violation of law. Criminals are not rewarded for money, but for punishment. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I always say that, and how much does Lawrence Ripper get?]] Therefore, we must restore the right, the truth and fairness, and we will restore it. We will restore, legally speaking, that the payment of indemnifications for prison congestion will be suspended without delay. Ladies and Gentlemen, Because of the above facts, and also because of the crisis caused by the massive threat of illegal migration, we should also consider suspending the scope of the Strasbourg court in Hungary. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oops, oops!]] Our firm position is that the appropriate level of protection of fundamental rights in Hungary is ensured without the formal ECHR active membership. Ladies and Gentlemen, Allow me a relevant quote from St. From Pope John Paul on freedom: Freedom is a continuous conquest, it cannot only be possessed. We got it as a donation, but we'll keep it in combat. Donations and fights, both written on the secret yet obvious card. You pay for freedom with yourself, which is why they call freedom what, while you pay, allows you to be the owner of yourself again. That's the price we enter history, understand its eras. Ladies and Gentlemen, This is why it is of great importance that we, Fidesz-KDNP, represent justice and the freedom of Hungarians, not the supposed control star invented by global power and its bag carriers, which brings more and more anxiety and hopelessness in Europe and the world than the unlimited human freedom they promise. So the future is ours, not the BSS triumvirate, that is, the future is not Brussels, it is not Strasbourg and it is not Soros. Remember, the Triumvirate wants to keep from you what your heart tells you. They are the ones who make shameful decisions, blackmailing free nations. They are the ones who view Jesus as just a political liberator who lost him. They are the ones who have turned the scene of the European spirit into a ruin field. They are the ones who have taken the humanism worldview, which is specifically focused on man, in the distorted direction that individuals realize their own desires, for which the other people are all to be exploited and to be thrown away after use. In the end, the proliferation of the above concept led to the fact that the majority of people slowly do not even know what the other person means to them and do not want to endure the mystery of man and woman. They are the ones who launched the total attack on the spiritual will left to us two thousand years ago and held it against us. So we have to stop them. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] [[11.40]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Several decisions in Strasbourg are a serious violation of Hungary's competence as a sovereign state. It seems that the interests of global powers and groups lie behind the judgments in Strasbourg. It seems that today we have come to the conclusion that the Court of Strasbourg is no longer secretly but openly acting as an independent sovereign against the states that have acknowledged submission. Therefore, I stress that it is time to reflect on the termination of the European Convention on Human Rights or at least on the suspension of certain points of the Convention. I now give the floor to my lead speaker, Nacha Lawrence. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-20-45	Thank you very much, Congressman. Mr Lőrinc Nacsa continues the keynote speech of the KDNP Group. Here you go, Congressman. You have the floor.
u2020-02-20-46	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear Madam Secretary, Thank you very much for the expedition, and thank you very much for the speed and efficiency with which this bill before us was brought here at the beginning of the spring session of the Parliament, as the Fidesz-KDNP fraction also requested in January and February with such speed and efficiency to the Parliament. What my better fellow Member Csaba Gyüre said is that the suspension of payments until 15 June is propaganda, my fellow Member, this action. This is not propaganda, but this is what is called action when, in a case which seriously undermines people's sense of justice, the government and the majority of the Fidesz-KDNP in Parliament act immediately and advocate solutions. And, by the way, during the suspension period, we devote our energy and time to asking the Hungarian people what they think about prison business. Therefore, we will encourage everyone from here to participate in the national consultation, as many people fill in the national consultation questionnaires that arrive in March and respond to the fact that this unfair state of abuse of rights is sustainable in the future. No wonder opposition representatives are constantly attacking and scolding national consultations. It bothers them that we ask people about our government. They are disturbed by the fact that a large number of people agree with us on these matters, as we hope now, and we have seen in recent national consultations. My fellow Member, Jobbik, as a lawyer, did not say a word about one thing, the ethics of lawyers, and those slick and, by the way, often the victims and the lawyers who took advantage of the perpetrators. Then, after his speech as the lead speaker, he left the room, because as a lawyer, it was obviously difficult for him to listen, and therefore he did not include in his comments the clever lawyers who played a role in prison business. I would like to draw the attention of all my fellow Members to an interesting fact that what we have said has been proven to be true: the opposition is covering the prison business; the opposition is covering for lawyers linked to the left and the Soros network. On Monday, when the emergency motion was adopted, neither Jobbik, the LMP, nor the graduate communists apologize, the Gyurcsány Party, nor the MSZP, nor the Dialogue [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Graduation! Lawyer, economist...]] has not voted to include our current agenda in an emergency series of items on Monday's meeting. I'll have to mention that Agnes Vadai used to frighten people in an outrageous way and cause panic and mood. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: Oh!]] By saying that he thinks the government will release the criminals. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: That's right.]] One or two statistics should be put to your attention. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] During your administration, 13-14,000 people were in prison, and now this is 17,000. Meanwhile, all the crimes committed in Hungary have been reduced by half. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai: How's that?]] During your administration, 420-430 thousand registered crimes occurred in Hungary a year. This fell below 200,000 last year, so we halved the number of crimes committed. And I would also like to recommend one more statistic to the congresswoman: the number of murders committed intentionally in 2006 was 174, in 2019 58. How is it, Congresswoman, that in your time, there were twice as many crimes committed and 3-4 thousand fewer people in prison? [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: We worked better!]] In your time there were criminals and perpetrators on the streets; in your time there were Roma murders; in your time, you could be free on the streets rapists, murderers, robbers while they were in prison. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] Obviously, let's not mention that in 2006 there was obviously an increase in the number of people imprisoned by your dictatorial pro-state swordsmanship. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: They were ambassadors...]] and eye-shooting, but let's not talk about that separately. [[Dr. Ágnes Vadai: I don't think... Gergely Harvesto intervenes. The president's ringing the bell.]] This incitement, which my fellow Member of Vada has been doing in the press in the past few days, must be rejected from Fidesz-KDNP, the panic and atmosphere he has committed against the Hungarian people and, by the way, against the Hungarian justice system and the Hungarian police. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] and we ask you to stop these instigating and stop making the Hungarian police feel like they're fighting the Hungarian justice system. [[Gergely Harvesto intervenes.]] The strict criminal policy of the Fidesz-KDNP has reached it, strict criminal policy and the Btk. repeated tightening has led to halving the number of crimes committed. We believe that this unfair situation, when there is a qualified case of abuse of rights, must otherwise be eliminated. That is why we are in favour of suspending payments now; we are in favour of asking people about prison business, and then, with the legislative mandate from the people, we will settle this issue once and for all in this spring session. It was already mentioned that there were 12,000 cases; and it was also mentioned that the court had awarded a compensation of HUF 8.5 billion. To help you understand, my fellow Members, this is 35 CTs. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Dr. Agnes Vadai: The price of which you stole...]]
u2020-02-20-47	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The lead speaker of the MSZP Group is Mr László Varga, who also speaks from this platform. Congressman, you have the floor.
u2020-02-20-48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Secretary, Dear Parliament, I was going to say something else very much, but I was distracted by some speakers. I think there are scandalous things going on in the Hungarian Parliament, so let's talk about them. As I understand it correctly, my colleague Vejkey, chairman of the Justice Committee, whom I have come to know as a calm, moderate person, spoke in his speech about the need to terminate the European Convention on Human Rights, which is what you are proposing. [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: You have to think about...]] I am also trying to quote that the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg should be suspended in Hungary, I think that is exactly what you said... [[Dr. Imre Vejkey: You have to think about it...]] I think this is the category where we have to stop for a moment. The fact that you said that here, I think it's one of those Rubicons you're about to cross. I am asking you to speak, say this is a misunderstanding, you do not think such things, because I think this is a scandal and you are taking this debate in a completely different direction. And I would ask you to give your opinion here in this debate to all of us, all of the Members of the Parliament and to the Hungarian society, what you think about these statements, by the way. I think it would be important before each Member makes a decision on the specific subject. Lőrinc Nacsa's words did not give us much of a surprise compared to this, and we are used to it, but these were two revelations from a lawyer, otherwise highly respected by me, which, in my view, creates a new situation in this debate. I have to say at the beginning of my speech that I agree with everyone who is outraged by the fact that the Hungarian taxpayers' forints have to pay compensation to convicted criminals. This triggers the condemnation of the vast majority of Hungarian society. The vast majority of Hungarian society disagrees with this situation and rightly irritates the vast majority of Hungarian people. This situation needs to be resolved, but it is worth considering why this situation has developed. I was told that only the representatives of the Fidesz-KDNP supported in the National Assembly in 2016 the legislation under which these compensations which were legitimately irritating to Hungarian society have been paid in recent years. Madam Minister said in his exposé that it was recognized that the legislation adopted at this time by the pro-government representatives was an opportunity to abuse, I think he said... [[Dr. Judit Varga: No...]] You should know now that this was voted by only Fidesz-KDNP representatives in the National Assembly. I go on, the head speaker of the MSZP said exactly this in the debate in the autumn of 2016 and I would quote here that after several years of detention, he will be entitled to a surprising amount of compensation for the prisoners. This can easily trigger a conflict in society, while it does nothing to improve the detention conditions of prisoners. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. [[11.50]] This was said three and a half years ago as the position of the MSZP here in Parliament. It is clear, therefore, that we are drinking the burden of a misguided decision by the pro-government representatives, because we are here because the pro-government representatives have made a wrong decision. Let's look at some facts, let's get some facts straight. In 2016, the author of this was László Trócsányi, who is now a Member of the European Parliament, Minister, and is now forced to correct his mistake. Pál Völner, sitting next to him, presented their views on the proposal at the time in the debate in 2016, and made an excellent point; now he will certainly argue a different position, which is contrary to that. I'm sure you'll speak again today, and you'll tell me your arguments. Obviously, there is a foam on the cake that, in relation to the reduction of the level of utilisation, the proposal marks 30 September 2020 as the date after which the utilisation should not exceed 100 per cent, but otherwise, according to the legislation adopted by you, it would not be possible to exceed it now, so there is an illegal state at the moment. Let's just say that a member of the government proposes to the Parliament that the Parliament call the government to comply with the laws. So that's why we came here today to make such a decision. But I'm saying that all therapy begins with the recognition of the disease, so I'm sure we're on the right track. Let us see how the government can achieve a reduction in congestion, which is obviously not mentioned; today we have not heard at all about what their plans are. On the one hand, they can build the planned prisons by 30 September. The question is that if there was no meaningful progress in this for ten years, it would succeed in six months and in what alternative methods. I would ask the authors to talk about this, and this should also be mentioned in the debate today. Obviously, another possibility was mentioned here before me, Csaba Gyüre mentioned an amnesty, even partial. [[Dr. Pál Völner: No.]] I think that would create a very serious conflict in Hungarian society. Let Hungarian society be reassured that they do not plan such a move. Or, by the way, a third option is to reduce the number of square meters per prisoner, and in this way a statistical solution is created. It is true that the problem is not new, it has existed for a long time, but lately, I think it has deteriorated a lot, and it is precisely because of their decision in 2016 that we have come this far in recent years. The indicator of saturation stands at 124 percent at present, Europe's peak holder Hungary is ahead of Northern Macedonia and Romania, and in many places the toilets are in the same room with the beds; it is good to know in Parliament that not much has happened in the last ten years, so that these conditions can change in prisons. By changing the system and, in fact, directing cases to domestic forums, they tried to get away with it, but in fact, the independent Hungarian court can do nothing but judge these damages and these compensations. This was also entirely predictable in the autumn of 2016; they did not listen to those who drew attention to it here in the Parliament. I've been referred to law firms here. It was in the press, by the way, who was the biggest beneficiary of this prison business, as you call it, was one of those Fidesz law firms. [[Dr. Pál Völner: It's not true!]] [[Dr. Pál Völner: It's not true!]] , which represented in the case of 1880 inmates, and awarded some HUF 814 million in damages on this basis. (Dr. Pál Völner: It's not true!) You could read that in the press. For some reason, you forgot to talk about it. However, I think it is right that the Parliament has set the right to restore legality to its goal, which is a very important objective to be supported, but it is important to know once again what means the Hungarian Government intends to restore legality if it has failed to make substantial progress in this case for ten years, since here the Hungarian State has been involved in a kind of defaulting violation and omissional infringement. This was also said in Tamás Harangozó's speech before the agenda, but I would like to put it on the table once again: in other situations they are not in such a hurry, so when, let us say, a decision by the Constitutional Court that states that the European Convention on Human Rights was violated in 2012, Hungarian disabled pensioners reduced the amount of the disability pension to several Hungarian disabled pensioners by not examining that they had actually improved their health status; and until March 19 they would not have done so. In this case, when it comes to difficult Hungarian people and people with poor health, they are not in such a hurry. It's different now, of course. But we also need to establish that generalization cannot be made in Hungarian prison conditions. It was on the news about the circumstances under which Roland Mengyi is serving his sentence. Many honest-working Hungarians do not deserve this, and I would like to say that there are not many honest-working Hungarians living under these conditions, unfortunately. There is obviously also a prison where there are comfortable, parquet rooms, canteen menus, soccer, tennis courts, billiards, ping-pong tables, gyms, landscaped courtyards; obviously, what is going on in your world. The question is what conditions will come for Peter Bocskai or the former Fidesz mayor of Balmazújváros. It is the former Fidesz mayor of Balmazújváros who has not, by the way, been enlisted in the execution of a final judgment for a long time. It is quite amazing that this can happen in Hungary today. The situation needs to be resolved, it should have been resolved in the last ten years, but it is a question of who will take responsibility and pay compensation. We tell them to pay the damages. In this connection, my fellow Member Tamás Harangozó submitted an amendment which I would finally propose to you for adoption, which would place this responsibility very clearly on the Fidesz-KDNP Members who supported the bill in autumn 2016, as the composition of the Parliament has obviously changed since then, but ultimately, your fractions are responsible for the fact that this has happened. So this proposal would be about public support for the Fidesz-Hungarian Civic Alliance and the Christian Democratic People's Party parliamentary groups, and then all compensation amounts, so this should not be suspended, but should be paid by the victims in this way. I believe that the outrage of the Hungarian society in this matter is justified, and the rightful indignation can be compensated, so that this issue can be resolved if the real victims compensate for the damage. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
u2020-02-20-49	Thank you very much, Congressman. Ladies and gentlemen, Before I give the floor to Congresswoman Agnes of Vadai, I have an announcement to make. In his letter to the President, Mr Sándor Burány, the general deputy of the Dialogue Group, informs the House that the Group of Dialogue will hand over the time frame available in the debate to the MSZP Group. I will ask our technical staff to adjust the timeframe accordingly. I now inform the House that the lead speaker of the DK Group is Ms Ágnes Vadai, who is also speaking from this platform. Here you go, Congresswoman, you have the floor.
u2020-02-20-50	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, My fellow Member Varga has already spoken about the political adventurous statement of the lead speakers of the KDNP faction, namely the need to consider Hungary's withdrawal from the European Convention on Human Rights. I suggest you don't even think about it. I understand that Fidesz is out of the People's Party's enchantment, but probably with this sentence you will be out of that enchantment circle and are getting closer and closer to Europe's extremist parties. I don't think this is a good direction for the ruling parties. [[12.00]] Now, we've got T/9241 ahead of us. Bill No.1, which is one of the most beautiful examples of your governance. First of all, let's watch the genre. To be honest, it's more ridiculous than anything that the Fidesz majority Parliament in its bill calls on the Fidesz government to do something. [[Defiance from the opposition.]] Ladies and Gentlemen, Why don't the government do what it's supposed to do and steer instead of filing fake laws? I know this is hard for you, but we should just try. And then, second, the shape. In the framework of an extraordinary sitting, the National Assembly will discuss T/9241. Their pleadings. One's daughter and son would think that an extraordinary meeting is necessary because there will be a topic on the agenda that affects the everyday life of Hungarian citizens, let us say, a law on the preparation of a new National Basic Study Plan. Or they'll accept the Democratic Coalition's proposal to raise the pension by 4 percent with retroactive effect. Or accept our proposal to punish domestic violence and to adopt the Istanbul Convention. Or they will accept our proposal to make the increase in the wealth of the relatives of the Members of Parliament public. Or an action plan, for example, for young people to access housing and launch a national rental program. Or they will change the budget, and instead of propaganda they will spend on Hungarian hospitals and raising the wages of those working there. Or, say, they announce that they will no longer humiliate Retired uniforms and restore the service pension. Because these and similar cases really deserve an emergency meeting, even at night or at dawn. But no! You called the emergency meeting for the people in prison. Well, I'd like to congratulate you on that. Third, the subject. Because when I took this bill into my hands, my eyes were 2. You've made a mistake, and this has shown your true intention with this extraordinary meeting today. How does the bill sound 2. §2? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The Parliament calls on the government to ensure by 30 September 2020 that the average utilisation of prison institutions does not exceed the total utilisation of 100 per cent. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Allow me to add another figure to T/9241. by: 268/2016. . Well, you must know what this is. But if not, I will help you: the Government Decree on the declaration of public administration issues related to new prison-building investments related to the capacity-building programme of prison institutions as a priority for the national economy. Your government has promised Bv institutions in eight settlements and has promised municipalities the opportunity: Békés, Csenger, Heves, Kemecse, Komádi, Komló, Ózd, Kunmadaras. On 31 August 2016, these investments were declared outstanding from a national security and national economy point of view. Then, three years later, a government decree came out again, 124/2019. The number from which Kunmadaras was taken, where a thousand-place detention facility, Ozd and Kemecse, was designed, where a 500-500-place detention facility was designed. That's just foam on the cake, speaking to the local governments, and obviously we know how much your word is worth, that the municipalities that are out of this program are spending a lot of money. Ozd spent HUF 15 million on preparatory work, and Kunmadaras spent 10 million on this in the former Soviet barracks and airport. Meanwhile, another program was launched because you knew that there was a problem with the number of prison guards, i.e. prison staff. They also spent a lot of money on this, and there hasn't been a single new Bv institution since 2016 from the 106 billion forints that were planned. By the way, I would have liked it if, in this debate today, in addition to the Minister of Justice, who, of course, as rapporteur, had the Ministry of the Interior to have respected it, because this is also a question concerning the powers of the Ministry of Interior. But I don't want to be unfair, because 472 seats have still been transformed in the former Kiskunhalas barracks, which was inaugurated by Sándor Pintér on 2 February 2019. I quote the baon.hu article in this regard:. The head of the internal affairs portfolio said that the transfer of Halas prison is only the beginning of the development. The expansion and modernisation of the National Penalty Institute will continue. I want to ask you where; because not in Hungary, that's for sure. Constructions and you know that better than I do, because your colleagues in the public procurement area couldn't go because the bidders asked for much more money for construction than they could. I believe that HUF 106 billion is not a big money for Lőrinc Mészáros and the other NER riders, but it is a lot for the Hungarian taxpayers. This process, which continues from 2016 to this day, shows that their prison-building project, announced with a big draft, has failed, so that the problem that other fellow Members have said here cannot be solved in this way or in this way, which is actually caused by you. But let's look at the case of overcrowding. Because you have proven many times that more favourable statistics can be produced if new methods of calculation are introduced. They did this when calculating those living in extreme poverty, obviously falsifying the statistics, but as we read today, obviously the time of rescuers' arrival could also be made much more favorable by new calculations. But the problem is still there, which means that prison overcrowding is still there, even though it was introduced in 2016, just before Christmas, obviously in the spirit of love, the IM regulation which also counts the places occupied by the lockers, beds and chairs into the space at the disposal of the prisoners, so the statistics have already been improved. Of course, I'm sure they still have an idea of how to improve the situation with a desk, because [[It's an interrogation from the ruling parties.]] I am sure that Árpád Habony and his circle are working beyond this national consultation, but even the Central Statistical Office, which forges statistics according to your taste, claims that prisons operated with 112 percent utilisation in 2019 and there is a surplus of approximately 1847 people compared to the 100 percent required and desirable by the Act submitted by the Minister. If we add that the government does not provide much data to the Council of Europe, and there is apparently no data that is not being falsified, it may well be that reality represents a surplus of up to 4-5 thousand people. Of course, all of this, and that's why the Ministry of Interior should have been here, is also contributing to a rather acute problem that we've been trying to deal with in the Defence and Police Committee for years, and that's a low wage for law enforcement employees on the one hand and a low number on the other. As far as we know, about 1,200 prison guards are missing from the system, and a significant number of those in the system are about to leave because their salaries are so low. [[István Jakab, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]] So, what's next for your two? From what? Well, on the one hand, it follows, with good grace, that the government is trying to build some sort of temporary type of Bv system, that it will be building prison-made buildings, which, I wouldn't have to say, shouldn't have to say, once again, the Minister of the Interior, who is a great expert in this area, is quite indefensible and dangerous from a security point of view. But the second option that many people have been talking about here, and I think it's going in this direction, but it's bad that they're trying to release thousands of criminals from prison. Worried I'd like to ask, is that the big plan? Is this the great solution to bringing two thousand or even four thousand criminals into Hungarian society? [[Dr. Pál Völner: No! Don't get your hopes up.]] Let them go because there's no room in prison? ! And what will be the aspect of the selection? Does it matter if someone stole, robbed, assaulted, or killed a man, or if they were to release criminals on the basis of party affiliation? Maybe Roland Mengyi will leave the penitentiary for the start? And before you yell and say it's such a far-fetched thought, I'd like to give you a few examples. It was just this week that it was found that for a year Peter of Fidesz Bocskai was allowed to run, despite his final judgment. He was the man who previously hosted Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in a propaganda video. He was sentenced to two years in prison for continued infidelity, but until the day before yesterday, no arrest warrant was issued against him. [[12.10]] Then one of the remaining free psychics wrote this, and then they had to put him away. But you know that in December 2019, Margit Veres, former mayor of Balmazújváros, was very amused in the city of Hajdúnánás, who was sentenced to five years in prison for the crime of accepting official bribery in April 2018, but has not gone to prison since. I'm sure you know her well, because she's a member of your company. My fellow Member Simonka is also very freely and calmly walking around this House, and he would also have a place to sit, and I do not think that he is here in the Hungarian Parliament, but in the penitentiary. So, after all, I think, my fellow Members, and these are just a few examples of us taking the suspect case, that you, among other things, want to set your own accomplices free. But again, I do not want to be unfair, let us consider the other possibility that you will appoint temporary prisons in other buildings. Or maybe they're building Bv institutions out of containers, because we've heard about that. In fact, there are also settlement names: Solt? Kiskunhalas? Sopronkőhida? Did we hear that right? I'd like to know if you've asked the people who live there how they feel about container cities. Or could it be buildings, schools, hospitals, or who knows what's going to become a bv institution? And who's gonna guard these bv institutions? Especially their residents? You? Or public workers? Or Ukrainian migrant workers? Because, as I indicated, there are at least 1,200 prison guards missing from the system, and while you have actually spent a lot of money training in the settlements where you promised there would be bv institutions, I think that most of those who have been trained are probably already working in Austria. Dear Members, Ladies and Gentlemen, In conclusion, you have tabled a proposal for an extraordinary meeting, which will allow at least 1800-1900 prisoners to enter Hungarian society in a lower voice. You don't care about pensioners, young people, women, children, uniforms, any Hungarian citizens. All you want is to release your own criminals. But they didn't have the courage to bring a lex Mengyi or a lex Veres Margit, so they are willing to unleash dangerous elements on Hungarian society, only and only to allow some fidesz thieves to be free again. How do they put it in their propaganda videos? It's dangerous. I'll add, it's a disgrace. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-20-51	Dear Parliament, Welcome, fellow Members. Lóránt László Keresztes, LMP Group. You have the floor.
u2020-02-20-52	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Madam Secretary, Ladies and gentlemen, It is an interesting debate, and my fellow opposition Members have said a lot of things that I agree with, but I have seen that my fellow MPs and Minister of Government have also protested strongly on some of the statements. I believe that in this debate these questions can be resolved, so that if there is a statement made by the opposition and then you can deny it, I suggest that you do so in the context of a speech. By the way, this debate began very, very interestingly. The Prime Speaker of Fidesz, Gyula Budai, former Commissioner of the Government for Accountancy, began his speech unusually sincerely: he said that he wanted to talk about the proposal for the prison business. Obviously, this statement, let's just say, is based on the 2016 proposal, but I think it has given me the basic voice of the debate. [[Lajos Rig laughs and applauds.]] That's how the lead speaker of Fidesz started it. It's a late confession. I would like to ask the Minister, it is not strange that the problems that have been developed by your predecessor, Minister Trócsányi, must be solved by a proposal, and she may have consulted her predecessor on what her professional opinion on this situation is. Now, the fact is that we are actually talking about a serious set of problems here, but let's say that we are talking about it when it is the tenth year of Fidesz's re-government. So in all respects, Fidesz had the political power and the opportunity to address these problems either overcrowding, circumstances or established legal anomalies. It didn't go away. And indeed, if we work with simplified numbers, there are currently 18,000 inmates in the current system for a capacity of 14,000. This means 120 percent overload, but these are not distributed in proportion. There are institutions where there can be 150-160 percent of prisoners, which is obviously an unacceptable situation. We have already talked about the fact that this situation, this legal situation, has been created by your proposal, by your proposal, and this should be quite clear, and I have already pointed out that this has been said by Gyula Budai, general speaker. In itself, it would be welcome if you would like to resolve this situation or not only this legal situation, but also all its elements, the issue of excessive use of prisons, but also this is not heard from the proposals. So from this bill, it seems to me that this is the overture of a political propaganda, not the real intention. I have a question for the Minister: is this proposal, which is here before us, made in the Ministry of Justice? Or maybe in the propaganda industry under the control of Antal Rogán? 'Cause apparently, and by the way, it doesn't look like a bill to me. If we do not want to be evil, then we say that this is a parliamentary proposal for a resolution, which is a political propaganda, a political declaration. Of course, Parliament's proposal for a resolution can be put forward on important issues, but this material, which is before us, is very, very difficult to comply with a law in particular. But if we are benevolent and say that this is a law, then you will go against Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who recently confirmed the consultation-based governance, because here, in particular, this bill is being put into the law the expected outcome of an advance consultation. So you can't really understand that either. Congressman Nacsa is not present in this courtroom. He referred to why it hurts the opposition to ask the Hungarian people about important issues. I think that was a pretty rough slide. We have tried to get to the point of asking the Hungarian people on many issues, and we would consider it important that on issues that determine the future of all of us and the future of generations, such as, say, the Paks expansion or the Budapest-Belgrád railway line serving Chinese interests, why they did not ask people about a 1000 billion project. We feel it is good to ask people about really decisive, important issues, but here we see a very serious contradiction. However, I have a specific question for the Minister. The situation is well-known to all of us: we are now on an extraordinary, recently convened parliamentary day. Why are you waiting for this? So this problem was known. Why hasn't this problem been solved in the last four years? As you have seen that this contributes to an unsupported, unsatisfying or unsupportable political situation, why have you not acted so far in this matter? Why hasn't this legislation been dealt with in this case, let's call it a law that the victims of crime could have had more budgetary resources so far, that is quite clear. And here is one of the most important issues that many of my opposition fellow Members have already raised, that this is where the intention to enforce the legal situation is formulated with a very limited time limit, and that the utilisation rate is down to 100 percent in Hungarian. Here, too, the Minister strongly protested when my fellow Members asked questions about the mass release of prisoners. Then I would ask Minister or Secretary of State or any member of the Government to tell the Hungarian people exactly how they intend to resolve this situation. It's been suggested on several occasions that you've announced prison constructions that have actually become nothing. In 2015, the European Court of Human Rights stated that overcrowding is a mass and systemic problem, and a specific action plan was prepared for this. In 2017, Viktor Orbán projected the construction of eight new prisons, and in 2019 Minister of Interior Sándor Pintér spoke of only five prisons, but they were not realized either. What exactly is the reason for this? We can read various problems that have been raised here, too, that we have failed to carry out public procurement in such a way that they run through a realistic bid price. I think that, by the way, there is a preparatory responsibility here, and obviously, with a proper budget and proper preparation, such a problem should not have been raised. So I would very, very much like a clear answer, and I think it would be comforting for all Hungarians to know exactly how they intend to create that situation, really in a very, very limited time, if in recent years they have not been able to solve 100 per cent of the utilisation; so I think that is what everyone would like to do, and everyone is right to expect a clear resolution on how it can happen. I would like to talk about one thing very briefly, which, unfortunately, has not been mentioned in this debate, and it is not dealt with in the bill, either, that the very important purpose of the prison execution itself is to allow former inmates who are out of there to reintegrate into society. Obviously, this requires conditions, conditions, and we know for a fact that they do not exist. I think it's in everyone's best interest. It is also in the interest of the prisoner, but it is obviously more important to say that it is in the interests of Hungarian society, all of us, that this kind of reintegration should be possible. Now, however, it is clear that due to well-known circumstances or circumstances that do not correspond to the country's international commitments, this cannot be achieved. What concrete proposals and concrete plans the government has for this, I repeat: after ten years of continuous governance, how it can improve these conditions and conditions, so that this very, very important social goal and need can be achieved. [[12.20]] Overall, I think the situation is very clear: it is a serious problem. Here, the government is facing its own grave mistakes and omissions and is trying to build a kind of political propaganda on them, and that pretty much tells us everything. So in the tenth year of Viktor Orbán's government, we have come to the point where they are now trying to build political propaganda for the situation they themselves have created. It's a judgment of themselves, we think. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-20-53	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, We have now come to the end of the keynote speeches. I give the floor to the first independent congressman. Here comes Congresswoman Dóra Dúró. Here you go.
u2020-02-20-54	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, In order to curb the prison business, Mi Hazan believes that it is not enough to amend Hungary's legislation alone, but, unfortunately, we have to go further. [[Gergely Harvestó: You may join the KDNP!]] Hungary must also be excluded from the jurisdiction of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, and there is no other way to stop it, because the Court of Strasbourg also undermines our self-determination and, on the other hand, protects the prisoners. In fact, the government decision to suspend damages only contains for the Minister that, by the final date provided for by the legislation, the payment of indemnities for prison congestion should be suspended without delay, but then, by the deadline, these funds will be paid in the same way. The Convention establishing the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg was published in 1993 by Hungary in a law, namely the XXXI. Article 58 of Act No 58 of this Convention allows the notification of such termination to the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, or at least part of it, to be notified. There is an international example of this. It is not only Russia that has stated that the decision of this Strasbourg court cannot be contrary to the Russian Constitution, therefore, that a number of such decisions relating to compensations are not implemented in Russia, which was taken by the Strasbourg Court, but France has also stated, for example, that, although it temporarily suspends part of this convention, it does not consider it binding for itself; and Turkey has already announced all this. The political background of these cases includes the fact that the Hungarian Helsinki Committee, for example, is at the forefront of turning to the Strasbourg court in various cases, whether involving a police killer or a politician, and thus fighting compensation for them. We do not consider this acceptable, and we do not consider it fair for these convicted criminals to obtain millions of HUF compensation based on their different circumstances. The statements of the governing parties both in relation to the Strasbourg court and in relation to prison business were significantly contradicted, especially when two Bangladeshi refugees received EUR 10 000 each of the Hungarian taxpayers' money because they were not given adequate conditions in the transit zone according to Strasbourg. In addition to the fact that it is of great concern from the point of view of self-determination that a court in Strasbourg judges the placement of two Bangladeshi refugees in a transit zone in Hungary, it should also be added that, in addition to the reduction of Hungarian self-determination, the Hungarian taxpayer's money is involved, from which in this case, in the case of this 2015 judgment, these people had to pay this compensation, which is a concern. It is also important to stress that the legal solution proposed by the Hungarian Movement in relation to the Strasbourg Court does not mean that parts of the Convention are not binding on ourselves. So there is also a legal solution to the human rights of Hungary as part of the European Convention on Human Rights, which is regarded as part of international customary law. [[Dr. Agnes Vadai intervenes.]] it accepts it as binding, but it will be the Hungarian courts that make these judgments even on the basis of this convention. So, both from the point of view of self-determination and as an effective solution to the eradication of prison business, we propose that Hungary suspend the jurisdiction of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, not execute the judgments in this regard, and also curb this prison business in this way. It is not enough to close the Hungarian gates if there is a loophole in Strasbourg. Thank you for your attention.
u2020-02-20-55	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, It is now possible to make two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Balczó, Jobbik Group.
u2020-02-20-56	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. My fellow Member, Csaba Gyüre, made clear and detailed comments on Jobbik's position, which also shows that we support the adoption of this bill. So now allow me to address a partly formal, yet perhaps important, issue. The bill is set out in Article 1. In its section, the Parliament calls on the Government to submit a regulation in the case in question until 15 May 2020; in the second part, the Parliament also calls on the Government to do another task. I see nothing wrong with that, because Parliament has an obligation to examine the impact in reality of the legislative proposals which it has taken, and in this case we say that the initiative starts with the Parliament; the main body of popular representation considers that the government should initiate some legislation in this case. But this, my fellow Members, should be a motion for an independent representative. Well, then it's clear that Parliament, separated from the government, will submit this! In your case, the petitioner is the government itself. So what we're talking about here is the government telling me to be nice to me by law to make what I've written here as I want to do, to do what I want to do. [[Defiance in Jobbik's ranks.]] So this is completely a wooden iron ring, and I see a solution to this: here is 5, 6. There is a real need to create a law under Section 2 of the Act, but it was thought not to have two technical parts in it. All of this has one purpose in communication: Árpád Habony suggested that this 1 and 2 be added completely unnecessarily. § in this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-20-57	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Márta Demeter, the LMP Group, in two minutes.
u2020-02-20-58	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Let's see who's responsible for the situation. In an absurd way, you are trying to point lies at lawyers, such as György Magyar, but the reality is that the situation is entirely your responsibility. You have been ruling for ten years now, and let me remind you that in recent years, the new structure of eight or nine prisons has been promised to the Hungarian people, and here also to the Parliament. Where are these prisons? Why didn't they build these? Even money was earmarked for this, yet nothing happened in order to allow for much more room in prisons, and that such a situation we are discussing could not come forward at all. This is your responsibility. I would also like to point out that the prisons in prison have been waiting for years for you to start working in these prisons that you promised you wouldn't build. Since these prisons have not recovered, many have left the prisons. Experienced, professionally trained people who will be missed very much. I myself went to prison with a public interest request for data, which revealed the amazing hours the stock is working. In the second half of 2018, more than 800,000 overtime were completed and in 2019 more than 1.7 million overtime. Incredibly high, extremely low salaries. They don't estimate prison records. So, as far as the situation is concerned, this is your responsibility. And what they need to do is one: to comply with international treaties; two: to build the prisons they promised; three: to ensure proper working conditions and salaries for the prisons; and to ensure the protection of the victims. Thank you. [[12.30]]
u2020-02-20-59	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congresswoman Anett Bősz, DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-20-60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the two oddities of the material before us. One is that you refer to man's inviolable and inalienable fundamental rights in this material. I'm genuinely surprised, although I'm glad, that I've only experienced so far, based on your work, that you're not interested in this, I mean, the inviolable and inalienable fundamental rights. I don't know how they let it out of their hands, maybe they'll reconsider. The other weird thing I'd like to draw attention to is the next one, so they put it in 1. The Parliament calls on the Government to develop, on the basis of the results of the national consultation, a new regulatory system for the relief of harm from crime and for the benefit of victims of crime by 15 May 2020. I don't know, it looks a little bit like you took the verdict out of the bag instead of confessing. I don't know, do you know what the result of this recent and exceptionally expensive national consultation will be? In any case, I did ask for the floor because there are two odd things about it: one of the odd things is that you are interested in the fundamental rights of people, so far it has not been revealed by their behavior and their policies. The other is how you know what the outcome of this national consultation will be. They seem very determined, they've outlined a course here as if they're presuming the results already. Thank you.
u2020-02-20-61	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Budai, Fidesz Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-02-20-62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Fellow Members, I am sad. I understand that my fellow Member Varga is not aware of certain matters before he states something, but that Csaba Gyüre, my former lawyer, does not see through Nyíregyháza to Debrecen, and cannot distinguish between two law firms, a huge problem, my honourable fellow Member, because you are mixing the season with the man, and you and Congressman Varga are making a false statement. Because the law firm you called close to Fidesz is not the same law firm that signed with the municipality. Congressman, you've been practicing for a year. How can you say something so stupid? I'm sorry, it's fake news. I don't know what to say to you, because before you said something, you would have taken the trouble, as an ex-Camera member, and you would have been informed about this case. The fact that Mr. Varga doesn't say or say anything is one thing, because he didn't spend a lot of time on this field, but you've spent quite a few years, and it's very sad that you're the Mohácsi Attorney's Office in Debrecen, who made the most of this business, calling it Fidesz, while there are two Mohács lawyers in the city. Congressman, take the time to look into it, because it's a huge mistake. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. A statement from Jobbik: Ask Lajos Kósa.]]
u2020-02-20-63	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group.
u2020-02-20-64	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, By giving up its liberal principles, I would like to send a message to Congresswoman Anett Bősz in the DK fraction that it is stated in the text that the results of the national consultation are based on the results. Whatever it is, we will be obliged to create the resulting legislation, taking into account and respecting the opinion of the Hungarian people. There is no result, there is not what will be in that law, because we do not yet know the outcome of the national consultation. We hope that as many people fill it out, we hope that this national consultation will also be in line where there will be more than 1 to 1.5 million fillers, the Hungarian people will be able to respond, and then we will see from the answers what kind of legislative duty we have. Secondly, I still wanted to respond to the verbal rampage of Mr Harangozó and the MSZP before the agenda, where they boasted of the prisons in Tiszalok and Szombathely, as with two prisons built under the Gyurcsány government. Well, Congressman, last year it cost the Hungarian taxpayers 5.3 billion forints in prison, because they tried to steal the money from it in PPP construction. Last year, we spent 130 billion forints on Hungarian budget money on PPP constructions that you have concluded, on very harmful constructions that were concluded by MSZP-SZDSZ, which, by the way, cost Hungarian taxpayers an awful lot of money, and even last year it cost Hungarian taxpayers 5.3 billion forints in the prison in Tisalök, which was handed over in 2008. I wouldn't say that's a very good deal, but you never cared about public money. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. Gergely Harvesto: You care very much! Dr. László Varga: Shame!]]
u2020-02-20-65	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, The two-minute speeches are over. There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Mrs Márta Mátrai, Housekeeper of Parliament, on behalf of the Fidesz Group. Madam Major, you have the floor.
u2020-02-20-66	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Secretary of State, When the Norwegian new Nazi mass murderer was sued at the European Court of Human Rights in April 2016 against the Norwegian state because he found coffee cold in prison, we knew that the time when common sense was to be called upon by the Hungarians as well. In her judgment, the judge complained that not enough attention had been paid to the protection of the mental health of the mass murderer, and I quote that this could be considered an inhumane and degrading treatment, the prohibition of which even applies to a terrorist. However, the judgment also generously stated that the right to family life was not damaged. This mass murderer in prison can use three cells, treadmills, a bike. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: We are talking about Hungary!]] , receiving computer games, reading newspapers, magazines, books, receiving visitors, nevertheless complaining of inhumane treatment, torture, the quality of food heated in the microwave, plastic cutlery. In the end, the Norwegian State was obliged to pay compensation and even to pay the costs of litigation, i.e. the Norwegian State. This is the European Court of Justice default today, ladies and gentlemen, who are shouting here, to which they think we should adapt. Dear Parliament, The Hungarian Government submitted T/9241. of the European Parliament and of the Council, which provides for measures to be taken without delay in order to eliminate abuses of prison congestion compensation. The bill before us consists of five paragraphs from which sections 1, 2 and 5 are set out. § 2 sets deadlines for the government: by 15 May 2020, develop a new regulatory system to enforce the interests of victims of crime and here highlight the interests of victims, taking into account the expected results of the national consultation; by 30 September 2020 ensure that the average utilisation of prison institutions does not exceed full utilisation; and by 15 June 2020 suspends the payment of compensation amounts for complaints of prison congestion. As far as I know, the EU's regulation of prison conditions, in particular the prohibition of torture, now allows for a broad interpretation in which objections to a lack of comfort can easily be found. Damages and indemnification lawsuits for such objections create social tension and are justified by citizens and are justified by the outrage of victims. At present, in the prisons in Hungary, as the Minister said in her expozee, there are 18,000 prisoners. So far, 12,680 decisions have been taken in prison-related indemnification suits, and nearly HUF 9 billion in taxpayers' money has been provided, but only 10 percent of this has been added to the victims. Ladies and Gentlemen, Dear Parliament, Now who would dare to say that this is no longer a business? Today, prison business brings more profits to convicts than crime. It violates the sense of justice of the Hungarians to pay a reward for non-existent reasons. The Prime Minister has responded. We cannot say more about social order, in order to protect the public interest. According to the bill before us, it is necessary to amend the relevant legislation in order to enforce the interests of victims of crime and then to profit from prison comfort. [[12.40]] If compensation is made, the amount granted for inconvenience is, in my view, more morally worthy of those to whom the perpetrators have caused the injury. When it's done, maybe we can talk about everything else. This will also be the subject of the forthcoming national consultation, which invites citizens to express their views on this issue as well. Ladies and gentlemen, It should also be remembered that prison is not a sanatorium. This is a penalty place imposed by the Hungarian court for the prisoners. This is what Prime Minister Viktor Orbán referred to in the radio interview when he said, and I quote, "Just so the students understand, prison is not a romantic place. The penalty includes the restriction of movement, the mandatory agenda, the supervision of behavioral norms and everything else, which is otherwise part of the punishment. Dear Parliament, I am convinced that the involvement that some lawyers have discovered as a well-paid task should be mentioned. This case law raises the conduct of abuse of law, which is capable of facilitating legal certainty. We can then ask what legal science means by that. We are talking about abuse of rights when an entity exercises the right of subjection granted by the legal order in such a way that those represented by it are contrary to the interests pursued by the law as a whole. The result thus obtained, as in our case, is unfair, unacceptable, and pointless. The Encyclopedia of Law is not an accident, and I would quote it literally: "The prohibition of abuse of rights is capable of acting as a useful,,,, in the closed system of the Code: in the case of proper application, it is an excellent means of achieving a fair solution in an exceptional situation which is not typical to be foreseen by the legislator. So the focus here is on a fair solution, which is not the case at all in the case of judgments based on complaints about lack of comfort. The problem is that many of the defenders are uncertain about where the morals lie, where legal aid is already at the expense of public order and public morality. If morality becomes relative in a society, then legal aid will also be relative and impose similar conditions on you, which is already the hallway to breaking the law. If trust in the moral maintenance of legal aid is shaken, then this is a serious blow to the law. There is a reason for the convicts to think that this collecting lawyer behavior is some kind of joint business between prisoners and lawyers and not an activity to protect public order. Dear Parliament, It is also known to my fellow Members that prison congestion has decreased significantly in recent years. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: 1 percent! One! He's showing it with his hands.]] There's more room than before. It is possible for prisoners to learn, work, and acquire qualifications during the period of their sentence, so that later they do not have problems returning and reintegrating into society. In recent decades, the living conditions of the prisoners have significantly improved, so these demands are completely unworthy and unfair. Dear Parliament, I would like to ask you to support the bill before us. Thank you very much for your attention. [[A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-20-67	Thank you very much, ma'am. Dear Parliament, We now have a speech from Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group. You have the floor.
u2020-02-20-68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, It is no coincidence that Mrs Márta Mátrai was only able to quote from Norwegian judgment, because the Hungarian court has not yet delivered such a judgment. [[Nacsa Lawrence: Yes!]] He does not quote a Hungarian judgment because about 80% of the Hungarian judgments actually have unfair and unfair circumstances that could actually harm the interests of even a criminal. I would have expected at least one Fidesz Member to bring such a judgment here and read out statements of a similar nature to the Norwegian court. We are not in Norway, we are in Hungary. Besides, you know very well, and that is why I do not like the fact that Minister Judit Varga is out of the room and is probably not coming back, because we might be able to discuss professional issues on this subject. You may be surprised, but when European legislation and, by the way, human dignity were born, there was a very serious dialogue on the security risks posed by indecent detention in prison conditions. You probably didn't often attend prison professional conferences, I represented the prison enforcement organisations for 19 years, and I've been at a lot of these conferences. They need to understand that, for example, the size of accommodation is defined by the legislators at European level because of the possibility of avoiding conflicts. You know that if, in a small area, and in addition, people who have been frustrated, because detention results in frustration, they do not have enough ground for life, movement, it certainly causes aggression, aggression conflicts, and after a minimum of 40 percent of the prison guards are absent, prison guards would not be able to handle these conflicts. So it's very good that you're bombing society with a question like this so that society can feel that they're sending you out of their tax dollars to criminals, that's right, but you're using it again in your own self-interest and fooling society. Interestingly, they are not told that they need six square meters for a prisoner or five square meters so that they do not fight ten times a day, because we do not have a prison guard to prevent that. And when it comes to not being a rat in a cell, it's because from a public health point of view, if they get any bacteria or viruses, half of the prison is dead. I hate it so much that you bring your bill here in the stupidest way, and it's none of your business. No one in this Parliament has ever said, normal politician, that murderers are entitled to compensation. No one ever said that, and it's not written in a piece of judgment. They deserve to spend their time in prison, but they don't get beaten up every day because only 2.5-3 square meters per person is the area, and the resulting aggression results in such conflicts. Do it, God bless you, for once in your life, talk about professional matters. It's the regulation, it's the shock itself. That there's no way to pay the compensation? It's written in the court's judgment, in the operative part, what to do in how many days. Have you ever seen a law like that passed and only one enforcer won't collect the money? ! And does it say that you can't pay for the trust account of the law firms? The rightholder may provide only for the amount! Why do you not like to change the civil code, change the civil order law, change the law on enforcement? I thought that they would now submit a package of laws to make it a coherent regulation. This is the same level of legislation as the Ptk., Pp. and the implementing law, and legislation at the same level, cannot override the provisions of existing basic legislation. Don't get me wrong. If anyone hates this system, Jobbik hates it, especially if you didn't do anything to, for example, get the damages awarded to the victims, who don't get the damages. Nothing! In 2015, our fellow Member Gábor Staudt presented to the House the proposal not to at least remove the public litigation costs from the victims, at least the victim should be the first to receive compensation from a prisoner. [[12.50]] What did Fidesz do? It's outlawed. Of course, because at the time there was a reduction in the rent, migration, and all kinds of psychotic lozunges for society, so that they could be fooled by national insults, not by consultations, but by insults. Then it's a prison-building program. Who do you think is responsible for not building the prisons? I tell you that in 2017, 2018 public procurement was declared invalid, saying that it would have been built for more than the prescribed price by entrepreneurs belonging to the otherwise fidesz moonyard. This is why the prisons were not built in Komlón, Komádi, Békés, Kunmadaras, Ozdon, Kemecse, Chengeren and Hevesen. Their average price would have been 5.5 billion forints. The 100 billion-year communication framework could have built so many prisons that, in fact, they wouldn't be able to use 50 percent. Or let's talk about the fact that 17 343 people were in prison on 31 December 2017, with 100 percent utilisation of 14,000 people. The 3,300 who must be removed from the prison system by 30 September, how will they do it? I'm extremely curious. Maybe bring in the coronal virus and die out? 'Cause I don't think you guys are gonna tell the judges that all of a sudden, not two-thirds, but a half or maybe a three-quarter remission. Now, to think, it's February, it's six months till September, so how are you gonna get these 3,300 people out of here? ! And let me tell you more about the prison experience. There are at least a hundred law firms not one, not two, not three, at least a hundred that are contracted for prison business. Many times, the prisoners give the prison guards the model authorizations that one lawyer brings in to his own client and gives him twenty, thirty to distribute among the other inmates who do not understand what this is about. That's why they're showing their tutors or prison guards how to fill this out. All I can say is that the national commander of the prisons, the commanders of the various institutions, could arrange for these model authorizations not to go to the prisoners, because most of them had no intention of suing the Hungarian state. But you do not dare to admit that this is happening with the blessing of your own supervised organization, because then Fidesz will not be able to make the big sacrifice here, that, oh, well, this government is a terrible abuse of the situation against society. But if it's an abuse of the law, isn't the Trócsányi Attorney's office's government mandate a misuse of the law? Taking the Mátra power plant back into the hands of the state at the expense of taxpayers just because it's loss-making, not abuse? Or isn't it abuse that 66 percent of the land sales went to the oligarchs around Fidesz? Isn't that a violation of the law? When we asked him that, they spread their hands and said it was legal. This is an abuse of exactly the same right. So don't play the victim here, don't ask the government to give him the power of parliament to do his job, build the prisons, and create decent conditions of care. I'm not saying we need the luxury of what's in Norway, but I'm sure in order to avoid aggression in prisons, we need to create a humane environment. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-20-69	Dear Parliament, A speech will be made by Mr Péter Ovádi, Member of the Fidesz Group. You have the floor.
u2020-02-20-70	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, With the law to stop prison business, the civilian government is seeking to eliminate an injustice that has existed for many years, which raises not only moral but also economic issues. The fundamental principle of all democracy is that everyone is entitled to the same rights. However, when this equality-based system is deformed and criminals take advantage of legal loopholes and profiteering by the effective intervention of smart, serialist lawyers such as the Helsinki Commission and the TASZ, the government has a duty to use all legal means to stop this injustice. At present, Hungarian taxpayers' money travels to convicted people and their lawyers in billion-dollar items who have played their chance at least once, instead of following the rules, they have chosen lawlessness, hurting law-abiding people. Dear Parliament, There is no doubt that everyone should be treated as a human being, even in the case of prisoners, but at the same time the right of criminals cannot be more important than the rights of the victims. This is precisely why it is outrageous that some people claim compensation from the state on the basis of inhumane prison conditions, even though the Hungarian prison execution ensures that prison institutions operate in accordance with the regulations in all cases. Among other things, there is a prison built 15 years ago in my constituency, Veszprém, which is facing major expansion and renovation. But speaking of my hometown, Veszprém, I assume that everyone remembers the murder that occurred in 2009, when Marian Cozma, the player of our famous handball team, became the victim of a vicious and brutal attack, and several of her associates were wounded by the same perpetrators. Then, thanks to the swift and efficient work of justice, the unsubs quickly came to police hands and seized their rightful cell in prison. However, it should also be remembered that Marian Cozma's family has not yet received the compensation granted to them. In such and similar cases, where are the lawyers of the Soros organizations, the human rights activists? Why are criminal rights more important than innocent victims? The current bill eliminates these injustices and restores the moral values that the law-abiding people expect. But, as with all these important issues, it is essential that we get to know people's overall views. For this reason, in the national consultation that is now under way, everyone can express their morality and values in relation to the prison business and the work of those who support it. I sincerely hope that the moral values of my fellow Members also require that they support this bill and restore the sense of justice of the Hungarian people. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-20-71	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gergely Arató, DK Group. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-02-20-72	Ladies and gentlemen, All my sympathy is for the Fidesz Members involved in the debate, especially those with legal qualifications, as they are obviously running after Viktor Orbán's latest political campaign for demagog, and they are trying to find arguments for a measure and a proposal that is all about you not doing your homework, and they are now trying to blame someone else on it. Several of my fellow Members have mentioned this, but I cannot go silently in addition to the fact that they have succeeded in submitting a statement or bill in which, at the initiative of the government, the Parliament gives tasks to the government. Plus, there are tasks that the government has already promised itself, because there is a decision to expand prison space. Now there are several decisions, because they made one four or five years ago, which they did not implement, and now they have another one, in which the Minister of the Interior was assigned to create 1500 seats, I don't know where and how, because there is no detail or a legal review. Now, if it's been prescribed in a January government resolution, where is the proposal? If you're serious about dealing with prison damages, why didn't you bring in a bill? Then why is it not before us that you would amend your own law, which you have adopted in order to better suit your taste? Where's the bill? Why didn't he come before us? Why are we discussing a fake bill, which does not actually take action to eliminate damages, and I think that it shifts the payment of penalties which have already been granted contrary to the rule of law? We also know that this will only affect a few cases. I mean, what's happening? The Parliament adopts this law, it enters into force sometime at the end of February, at the beginning of March, until June, which, of course, has no retroactive effect, because it cannot, as a result, refers to judgments given in the meantime. Otherwise, the deadline would be 60 days, so you will be injured in such cases, or someone to whom such compensation will be awarded, not in 60 days, but in 82 days. [[13.00]] Congratulations, that's a wonderful achievement. That is why it is worth spending billions on national consultation! They're ordering the government to do their job and create prison spaces. Well, that's wonderful. But that's what the government was supposed to do. They didn't do it, they didn't build anything. Probably didn't match your oligarchs with the financial arrangement where they could have done well, so there was no candidate, no prison space was built. Otherwise, the overcrowding is really decreasing. Do you know why it's dropping? Because they've already released the criminals! 18,000 people were in prison a few years ago, and now it's under 17,000. If it really was a measure of the effectiveness of justice, Congressman Nacsa mentioned that the more people in prison, the better, although everyone who knows how to do so says the opposite. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I didn't say that!]] Then you're going in the wrong direction in criminal policy. I don't think so, of course. So what I have to say about this bill is that it is essentially a bill for propaganda, it has nothing to do with solving the problem, it has nothing to do with prison conditions, it has nothing to do with what kind of damages are paid. Of course, I would like to note one small thing, because it is a dangerous precedent, just as Congressman Ovadi has just done, that if the lawyers who are willing to take up cases in which we have to sue the state, put him on the edge and call him a noodle lawyer, then this also leads to and we understand that one of the aims of this proposal is not to take a lawyer on a case in which, by the way, you have to take an action against your overpower, dare you to take a case where you have to deal with the state. And here, of course, to be honest, I'm not interested in criminals. [[Csaba Czegledy is also a criminal!]] But I'm interested in labor lawsuits, I'm interested in lawsuits about data disclosure, I'm interested in lawsuits that are about how people could otherwise be posted by authority decisions. That's what you want the lawyers to take on cases like this. Luckily, I can see that there are many lawyers who, in accordance with their oath, take up legal representation. And Congressman Ovadi has the nerve to say that otherwise everything is fine in prisons, and therefore these lawsuits are baseless! Ladies and gentlemen, Your legislation is about compensation if you do not comply with the rules of the government. Those who receive compensation will be compensated because the prison system you run cannot comply with your own rules. Finally, as far as compensation for the victims is concerned, the situation here is indeed very serious. If you were to submit a bill to make it easier and easier to compensate for the victims, even at the expense of the perpetrators, we could support this, and we would be happy to support it. But this is not the case, either in this proposal or in the government's ideas that have been put together so far. In fact, these are the exact amounts of compensation that have so far come from the first place, to second place victims, according to the rule that you correctly wrote in the previous law. Is compensation for the victims really important to you? Good. Then do not make a propaganda campaign, do not do a national consultation, but create legal instruments and financial instruments that, for example, advance the compensation of victims, which allow the claims of victims to be met even if the perpetrator has no assets or if, as Congressman Simonka, this property is carefully hidden. Ladies and gentlemen, Perhaps the absurdity of this debate is shown by the fact that KDNP and our country have successfully reached a common platform in the need to step out of the European Convention on Human Rights. The Congresswoman did not continue the full list, because she could have mentioned Belarus in addition to Russia and Turkey, as a leading European democracy, where otherwise the European Convention on Human Rights is not considered to be valid. We would like to make it clear, and this is one of the objectives of this political campaign that, by the way, the accession to the European Convention on Human Rights, the recognition of the scope of the Court of Strasbourg, is a requirement of the rule of law that the European Union has also examined. When you want to take the rights of the Hungarian people away from this agreement, this also means that you are denying the European Union's core values and that you want to prepare for Hungary to be driven out of the European Union if it is in your political interest. It's not surprising from our country, KDNP is new, but it's not surprising from there. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
u2020-02-20-73	Thank you, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I would like to inform you that, according to the list of comments, the Member who has been notified in advance is not in the Chamber, so we consider his application withdrawn. Dear Parliament, Mr Tamás Harangozó, Deputy Group Leader, informed me that the MSZP Group will hand over five minutes of the time frame available to the Group of Jobbik in the debate. [[Morai, interrogations and applause in the ranks of the governing parties: Oh, how kind!]] I would ask the staff of the technical box to modify the timeframes as announced. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Member László Böröcz, Fidesz Group.
u2020-02-20-74	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like to respond very briefly to a few things here. First of all, my fellow Member Nacsa has already mentioned that the basic problem here was not that prisons were overcrowded. The basic problem was that, until 2010, during the administration of the MSZP-SZDSZ coalition, the justice system worked and the execution of the sentence worked without arresting those criminals, those mob groups, the robbers that should have been arrested. If you go to Budapest today and ask people... [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: She went to law school...!]] If you go to Budapest today and ask people, they won't meet someone like Vizoviczki, who would have taken protection money from restaurants and other entertainment venues. [[Gergely Harvesto: Now his name is Rogán!]] They don't find criminals who blow up the streets, they don't find criminals who run free. It was your responsibility not to arrest these people and let these band of robbers and murderers roam the streets. This was the basic problem from which we got to the point where, obviously, after 2010, the Hungarian Ministry of the Interior, the Hungarian police, were able to solve these things, catch the perpetrators, and suppress the number of registered crimes, and reduce the number of murders. This is the real result the Fidesz-KDNP administration has achieved. The fact that you assist to protect lawyers is, of course, 90 percent of lawyers, 99 percent of lawyers are a very honest and honest person, but there are certainly some who are running as candidates for representation, as representatives of MSZP-Party speech, and, in contrast, in such an outrageous lawsuit, they are able to represent murderers and criminals against Hungary, and they are enriched with this. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-20-75	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group.
u2020-02-20-76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, It's excellent that Gyula Budai came back, because he was vague in his two-minute speech earlier. In any case, I did not say in my speech that this particular law firm would otherwise have a relationship with the municipality of Debrecen. [[Moors and interrogations in the ranks of the ruling parties. Nacsa Lőrinc: You said fidesz! Dr. Gyula Budai: Stop lying!]] All I said was he's near Fidesz. By the way, this has been published in press reports, and many local claims prove the strength of this. [[László Böröcz: Slide!]] There will be others talking about this, Mr Congressman, but in any case I could say that you lied when you said that I would have said that you had a relationship with this specific office in Debrecen, because I did not say that. I'm sure you'll tell me what you're thinking about. I would like to say to Lőrinc Nacsa, although he addressed it to Tamás Harangozó, who made his statement before the agenda. I think it would be more appropriate for you to talk about where the eight prisons you promised to build in the last ten years are. Why did they stop their construction and otherwise do nothing to avoid overcrowding? And to László Böröcz, very briefly, here he said that criminals are on the loose. I'd just like to say that, by the way, the final convicted former mayor of Balmasújváros Fidesz is free to go free. When are you going to start serving your otherwise final sentence? It is also interesting that this can happen today in Hungary. I think it's a scandal. You should talk about it. Thank you, Mr. President. [[13.10]]
u2020-02-20-77	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Varga, DK Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-20-78	Thank you very much. Mr President, Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, The truth is, I'm surprised that I'm going to speak to him on my second day of work, but the truth has been said so many times today, the sense of justice that my sense of justice has also died, and I said that I have to tell you, because Congressman Budai has rejected the accusations that the Mohácsi Law Office in Debrecen has anything to do with your party. Well, I'm from Debrecen, let's not forget that, and if you're going to go up to the Law Association's website now, then you can see, on the one hand, apart from relatives, that the two law firms are the alternate offices of each other and the lawyers' alternate lawyers. And I would go further on this matter, honourable Member, in the town of Debrecen, which is well-known, otherwise it is the division of labour between the father and his son. So I have to say, I understand what you want, but you were shot in the leg. You were shot in the leg when you started a witch hunt against lawyers and prisoners. Everyone knows what this is all about. You guys are limping around with that prank that's not gonna sound good. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-20-79	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr Imre Vejkey, KDNP Group.
u2020-02-20-80	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to respond to those raised by my fellow Member, Mr Gergely Arató. I believe that it is not a sin to think about the question I have raised, revealing its potential advantages and disadvantages and comparing it. I am very pleased, ladies and gentlemen, that today, in Hungary, any issue can be considered freely, and there is free debate, because it is given today. I would also respond to my colleague, Mr Varga-Damm, Andrea. Congresswoman said that the legislation at the same level is Ptk., Pp., Vht. And so is the proposal. I think that this is not entirely appropriate, because lex specialis derogat legi generali or lex posterior derogat legi priori. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea and Dr. Gyula Budai intervene.]] I would also like to respond to the statement and presentation by the Member on the fact that there is not only the Norwegian example, unfortunately there is also a Hungarian example from the point of view of the judgments, when the judgments refer to the fact that the day in the cell is not sunny enough. Thank you. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-20-81	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman György Szilágyi, Jobbik Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-20-82	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Congressman Böröcz said that we will assist György Magyar and the Helsinki Committee. No, Congressman, you've been assisting since 2016 because you voted for this bill. You made it possible for this dirty business to happen, because we can agree that it's a dark, dirty business, only if we look around, it's weird that Fidesz isn't there. Yes, you can. There he is! In spite of their denial, the case of Mohácsi Law Office, the 1880 case of the Mohács Law Office in Debrecen is four and a half times as much, and the amount of 814 million in addition to its name is 270 million more than the cases related to the Hungarian Györgyes! So you guys are doing your share of this dirty business. And you can deny that this law firm is constantly working for the local government in Debrecen, and even Lajos Kósa himself said that he should believe Lajos Kósa, who said that yes, the law firm represented them in various labour lawsuits. Gentlemen. You've made it possible for these damages lawsuits to take place with the law you've passed, you're constantly assisting in this dark business, and the greatest benefit is being pulled by the law firm associated with you. These facts, these facts! You can twist this, you can say something completely different to you, and for example, Mr Secretary of State, you assisted when you pressed the button in 2016 so that these lawsuits could start, because you knew that Jobbik drew attention to the fact that this would be the result. You thought you had the Philosopher's Stone, you didn't listen to anyone, you arrogantly rejected Jobbik's observation, you voted in favour of this law, and we are here at the moment, but thank you for at least noticing after four years that Jobbik was right. Thank you so much for listening. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-20-83	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Since all the groups have expressed their views in the light of the two-minute time frame, further speeches will now take place. I give the floor to Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian, Jobbik Group.
u2020-02-20-84	Mr President, Dear House, I was also surprised by the production reporting style that emerged from the pro-government speeches, respect for the exception, because there was a difference. Let's see what we agree on. I think we can agree that in the case of a $9 billion subpoena business, restrictions must and can be used here, in addition to taking final court decisions into account, of course, but the climate that gives rise to similar abuses needs to be redesigned. I do not wish to go into the number war, which is near Fidesz and which non-government law firms have made a lot of money out of it, since I was told by the speakers before me, it was crystal clear. I am most disturbed by the hypocrisy that flows from many of the representatives of Fidesz-KDNP, since they had a sympathetic beginning, an uppercut after 2010, the direction of the three strikes. It was a move that I could take, supported, and positive, in which it was possible to sanction to a greater extent criminals against whom it had been, even if it was not lenient in all cases, or at least in the loopholes, that sometimes they were able to sneak out of the hands of those who wanted to sanction me fairly. And the thing is, the troubles started after that. I say to my fellow Member Böröcz that you can come here with your statistical magic, but explain to me not to wave, press a button if you have something to say. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: I pushed.]] , explain to me that if Fidesz-KDNP pushed the infringement threshold to an unduly high level, and therefore previous crimes are now considered to be an infringement, then on what basis can you say that although statistics have improved, crime has been reduced in Hungary. You do not know, you simply do not know the typical forms of social co-existence problems and their forms, typically in the countryside in Hungary, or, say, North-East Hungary, or even in Szabolcs County, from which one half of my family came. You simply do not know the problems of social coexistence, the typical problems that were removed from the previous category of crime by raising the threshold, and now they say that, of course, there are not so many crimes, but they still exist in the space of Hungarian reality. And we must also say that when you take a flat-rate fine for EU money because of the business dealings of a person of the Prime Minister's kinship, rather than investigating these matters, it is very difficult to accept moral lectures from you. So we also feel in this case that if you had been so brave, [[To László Böröcz:]] Don't smile, please, because these are serious topics. At the time of the Cozma case, after being so brave and masculine when that tragedy happened to Lajos Szögi, you even allowed the affected families in huge trouble to receive nothing of the compensation awarded, I simply do not understand their current behavior. When Jobbik suggested that, in such catastrophic cases, the amount awarded would first be paid as compensation for the victim's relatives, and then anything else could be accounted for, why were you silent? Where was their present courage then? Where was their incredibly combative and incredibly character-like stand? Why aren't you upset about Lajos Szögi and his family? Why didn't they get upset after the Cozma case? Why didn't they just drop these packages off and move them through the system? So it's quite amazing that they have an attitude and an attitude that's been taught, and an arrogant attitude, and that's how they perform a subject that we can basically agree on. And of course, we all want to repress such an amazing business distortion, I definitely do, but in 2016, that particular spirit was released from the bottle by you. So my request is for you to be a little more modest about this issue and to respond to what we have said. Yes, these abuses, which my fellow Member Szilágyi has put forward, are they real, can you face them and face the relatives of the victims, for whom you have not been so courageous at all, and have missed the minimum form of standing? Thank you for your attention. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]] [[13.20]]
u2020-02-20-85	Thank you. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister for Justice Pál Völner. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
u2020-02-20-86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A lot has been said, sometimes something related to the subject. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: No, no, no!]] But the announcement has arrived that I must respond immediately to the case of Lajos Szögi, after the regulation states that the needs of the victims can be met with these compensations. In each case, when these claims were reported, the Ministry of Justice transferred the amount to the victim's account. So I would ask my fellow Member, Dániel Z. Karpa, not to make false claims at least in respect of the victims and to ignore the announcements of demagogic and poignant, which are in stark contrast to reality. But if I have already spoken, if I may, Mr President, I will respond to the other things that have been said, and you may be able to reflect on your previous comments. How did we get here? If we look at crime statistics, prison saturation in the 2010 and post-2010 periods, we can see the contexts that are emerging. If we only consider that the number of crimes in respect of vehicle thefts has decreased by 70-72 percent, if we consider that there is a 49 percent decline in registered crimes in the countryside and 40 percent in the capital, if we link it to the hard criminal policy that entered after 2010, let us think of the three strikes law and think of the mixed attitude that the opposition has shown on these issues, then we can see that a very effective criminal policy is taking place in Hungary, the detection indicators are very good, the effects that we have achieved are very good. It has also been said that prisons have decreased in recent years, perhaps because some have been trained to follow the law and the deterrent force has also increased over the past period. This factor is always so generously forgotten by opposition representatives from their thinking. Several comments have also been made on the national consultation, but let us not argue that citizens have the right to express their views on this issue, and they have the right to express their views directly. With regard to the bill tabled, it has been said that this is incomplete, because it contains only temporary measures, namely the suspension of payments or the setting of a time limit for prison building, but they forget that we do want to take the outcome of the consultation into account, and therefore we have not put a definitive regulation before this House. On these regulatory issues, we want to point out that what was the original goal and I am looking at my fellow Member, Gyüre, to get to the victims, was a very good idea, and we were able to incorporate it very well into the law, but we can see that it is not effective enough. So we can't be proud of an indicator below 13 percent. We need to find ways to extend this so that the amount actually reaches where the damage occurred, and not the demands for prison execution are generated. Thank you very much for my fellow Member, Mr Gyüre, for his comment that he made such a short statement that about a million forints on average, slightly below a million, but I think it is a pity to argue about the amount that we have to pay in these cases, which the Hungarian courts judge thanks to internal regulation. The other figure also said that according to his modest estimates, this amount would have been HUF 6 million if we hadn't put in place regulation, which Strasbourg would have granted without a substantive examination in all the cases that had been sent out. Another important element is that the victims never saw a penny of that amount. So this 11-12 percent contribution to their grievances may be modest, but it was still, and it did not embezzle in the same way as in the previous period when these decisions were made on the basis of judgments in Strasbourg. So it can be said that the Hungarian state has been able to hold back approximately HUF 40 billion in these cases only in this way from the taxpayers' money, from the budget. If it's a crime, I'll apologize for it anytime, take responsibility, or anyone on the government's side. It was also said to reduce penalties, amnesty, or release prisoners from prison. I believe that the criminal policy of the last ten years proves that we do not have such an ambition, that we do not have such a practice. I would also suggest that one of the escape routes in the regulation could have been, in the light of the proposals in Strasbourg, if we had compensated for these so-called violations by means of freedom redemption. This kind of regulation has not been or will not be born in Hungary as long as this government is present as the author of the legislation. On the subject of László Varga, what Imre Vejkey did in connection with the speech by my fellow Member, the proposal does not state what the government's position is with regard to the Human Rights Convention. So I do not wish to interfere with the debate between Members at the moment, but it is a very interesting point that you, who want to introduce the phrase "mouthlock" in relation to the work of your representatives, and that you deeply resent and find it unacceptable to express the opinion of a pro-government politician. [[Dr. László Varga: I didn't ask you about that, I asked you about your opinion.]] I think that it should have been suggested why, compared to the Hungarian payment conditions, it awards large-scale compensations in Strasbourg [[Dr. László Varga: I asked whether you agree or not.]] and not in accordance with what it considered acceptable in the internal arrangements. [[Dr. László Varga: Do you agree, Mr. Secretary? That's what I'm asking, but you didn't answer.]] To my fellow Member of Vada, who also said that we would unleash criminals on society, it is clear from what has already been said that we do not have, nor will we have, such a practice. He's on the website right now, and we're going to talk about tightening up conditional release, which is also not going to point in the direction that we're going to release criminals from prison sooner. I don't understand these things with reality, with news, with everything in mind. It is very difficult to argue this way, by the way, when we are not discussing on the basis of facts. Congressman László Lóránt Keresztes mentioned that for four years such bad practice had been done. That's why these cases have a lead time. After that, there are payment periods. When we noticed this proliferation of the Ministry of Justice, so it was not that the Strasbourg cases ran out, and who felt that they were in excess of the level of punishment in prisons, that they were basically making demands, but that this pattern business, which you know and found in the speeches, was in motion, that it was really blocked up, and we are here today, and we are discussing this matter, how to correct it, how to remedy it, how to channel these money towards victimal needs. I think I have dealt with the case of Lajos Szögi, and I hope that what we know about the case, and as much as the claim has been made, has always been fulfilled by the Ministry of Justice, and we will continue to give priority to the victim's needs. Thank you. [[Applause in the pro-government benches.]]
u2020-02-20-87	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, There will now be further speeches by Members. I give the floor to Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group.
u2020-02-20-88	Thank you for the floor. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, State Secretary Pál Völner talked about how much less crime was committed as a result of criminal policy, but did not say that the number of people in prison increased by 15 percent over the ten years. Let's explain this one time, the relationship between these two, and they still haven't told us where that 3300 will be put until 30 September to reach 100 percent because of the current 123 percent overcrowding. But, for example, Fidesz colleagues could ask you and Minister Judit Varga why the law on enforcement was not introduced here as a law that could be amended to put these compensations first on the victim's hands or to translate into public litigation costs. Why didn't you bring the enforcement law here, which could have been easily amended, so that if you had been ordered to pay this kind of payment, the State Treasury or the Minister of Finance, or the Minister of Justice, or anyone, since you can install permissions, would know by means of a request for justice that there is a lawsuit pending, an action for damages for the victims, and, if it is pending, that enforcement should be suspended? [[13.30]] And if it is final and the compensation has been established, the executor can immediately seize the compensation awarded from which the victims can be compensated. Why didn't you bring this here? This could have been done beautifully, and I'd be happy to give you some advice. You know why? Because the only thing in this proposal is to postpone the payments, because it would have been offensive to the law firms that want to make more of this money if they had finally failed to pay the lawsuit. You have not by chance brought this tricky, otherwise completely propaganda proposal here, and not on a professional basis, actually amending the legislation on it; with an additional provision, the social need could have been fully met. That is why I think that you are aware of this, and you are deceiving your own fellow factions by saying that it is a seemingly spectacular, as if it were a proposal for something, but you know that it cannot be implemented. Anyway, let me tell you, they keep telling me about the $9 billion damages. Two prisons would have cost $9 billion. [[Nacsa Lárinc's intervention.]] If you didn't cancel the public procurements in 16-17, saying it was a little more than it would have cost. Then you shouldn't have paid the $9 billion, because 90 percent of these judgments are about placement rates, so it's about overcrowding. So it's the government's responsibility that all these lawsuits could have been brought at all. It's the government's responsibility to pay so much compensation. It is the government's responsibility not to build prisons on the basis of the prison programme set out in 2010. So I want you to exercise restraint, not use this case for government and party propaganda, but if you want to solve something on a professional basis, do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]]
u2020-02-20-89	Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Deputy Minister Pál Völner, please.
u2020-02-20-90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and With regard to implementation: when the original law was debated, we also clarified that the demands that Strasbourg had taken into account in the legislation could be countered. If it hadn't been for that kind of regulation, [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]] which would meet their needs, so that, where appropriate, criminal costs would have been enforced by the State, the regulation would not have been adopted and the lawsuits would have continued in Strasbourg in the same way. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You're welcome...]] You could have followed that up a little deeper, and then we wouldn't have had to argue about it here today. The other part is we're talking about suspension. That is precisely why the consultation is taking place, and we are looking forward to your proposals on how to extend this circle in implementation, and how to meet more legitimate demands from this amount, which exists against these people. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I'm ready...]] As far as prison conditions are concerned, I have already told you today before the agenda that a prison hospital, Kiskunhalas, was recently completed in Berettyóújfalu with almost 500 seats last year, so the prison program continues. The other, in the case of highly overpriced public procurement, I have not yet experienced the opposition being so opposed to the fact that if an overpriced [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea's intervention.]] or an offer in excess of the budget, then they are accepted without hesitation by the government and do not try to find other solutions. So you have to decide what you like now: when you defend the interests of the budget or when you don't. Thank you. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties. Intercoms from Jobbik's benches.]]
u2020-02-20-91	Thank you very much. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Gyula Budai, Fidesz Group. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea:]]
u2020-02-20-92	Thank you very much. Mr President, Let's cut to the chase. There are several Debrecen in the ranks of the opposition. Then I would like to offer you with great respect a press release from the city of Debrecen on January 31, 2020. I'd like to read to you what was said in that, and that's why I'm telling you that what you're saying is fake news. And now I don't want to go into that. [[Tibor Nunkovics: No, obviously don't go into it...]] What the father and son and practice mean inside a law firm, because I think our fresh DK representative is so unprofessional in the internal rules of a law firm. However, I would like to say to you that this communication contains that the reality is that in the case called prison business, Ferenc Zsolt Mohácsi is a lawyer and his own Dr. Ferenc Mohácsi Zsolt Law Firm, with which the municipality and its organs had no connection, either recently or previously. [[Nacsa Lawrence will spread his hands, that's it!]] I think that in these matters we can turn to it with great respect. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: By apologizing...]] However, there was no question raised by Jobbik, the MSZP or the Dialogue. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre:]] What about the MSZP dialogue politician named György Magyar. Why don't you distance yourself from him? 521 billion in 419 cases He's been mowing. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea's intervention.]] He's a politician... [[János Bencsik: Péter Polt, right? The president's ringing the bell.]] He's a politician! Congresswoman! If you're running for parliamentary elections in the colors of a party, you're a politician, we can stay in it, I think. Keep away from him, distance yourselves from Magyar György! He's the biggest beneficiary of prison business. [[Intercom from Jobbik's benches: Not the only...]] And you, all the speakers, have not even said your name by chance to this day, nor have you even said it! They were so scared of him, I don't know, like fire. [[Constant interruptions from Jobbik's benches.]] The same can be said of my fellow Member, Mr Gyure. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: Go ahead.]] He didn't dare mention the name of György Magyar... [[Intruder from the benches of Jobbik, he dared not mention it. Defiance from the Jobbik benches.]] The Jobbik, if he's so big on this thing, why isn't he objective? [[Lajos Rig's intervention.]] György Magyar is an MSZP dialogue politician. Right now, you're in this opposition coalition. They're with a man who's one of the biggest beneficiaries of prison business. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre: You are his creators, come on!]] And then neither the lawyers of the Helsinki Committee nor the lawyers of the SAO, who also belong to you, will speak yet. So I'm asking you to be objective about this. [[Dr. Csaba Gyüre's intervention.]] And I expect the MSZP, from you, Congressman Varga, to distance themselves from the politician who is one of the biggest beneficiaries of this prison business. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-20-93	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, An independent Member, János Bencsik, will take the floor. Here you go, Congressman.
u2020-02-20-94	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear House, I listened with great interest to Minister Judit Varga's speech that after four years, she noticed that some law firms were giving serious money to violent criminals and by commission to themselves. Dear fellow Members, In 2016, you were the ones who tabled this proposal, you encouraged us to vote for it, and you voted for it. You said no to compensation for the victims once in 2016 and you said yes to the killers for the benefit of the money. Now, in a hypocritical way, they're pretending to be a violation of society's sense of justice. It's not unusual for you, we've seen it before. In 2001, you were also the first to allow banks to unilaterally change contracts against foreign exchange creditors and then to play the fight for freedom against banks after 2010. But you have settled the country by saying that Hungary will not become an immigrant country; and then that it is not, that it was Antal Rogán's offshore companies linked to you that made around HUF 60 billion out of the bond business through the settlement bonds. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the bill before us gives us the opportunity to use full capacity selectively. The proposal states that the average utilisation rate of the institutions should not exceed the total utilisation rate. This means that there will be prisons that will operate or continue to operate with 150 percent overcrowding, and there will be prisons that will be only half-charged, 50 percent. That way we can come up with the situation, and that's probably your goal, too, to continue to be a VIP prison like Kecskemét. This can also be a great foresight on your part, because I understand how to make room for those fidesz politicians who have been or have been convicted, such as Roland Voldemort Mengyi or György Simonka, or those criminals who will be convicted after that. There is no need for national consultation to eliminate the overcrowding of these prisons. In order to alleviate these overcrowdings, it is a clear, clear electoral will, a social will. Everyone wants and expects there to be no overcrowded prisons and no compensation for criminals. Therefore, I would like to make the suggestion to you that all the money, the billions of forints that have been set aside for national consultation, should be used to increase the number of seats in Hungarian hospitals. Let us make it possible, not only in prisons, but also in hospitals in Budapest and other rural hospitals, where there is currently overcrowding, and where conditions are currently similar to those in prisons, to finally have conditions for patients who want to heal under humane conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the benches of Jobbik and LMP.]] [[13.40]]
u2020-02-20-95	Thank you. Dear Parliament, We now have two-minute speeches. I give the floor to Housekeeper Mátrai Márta. Here you go.
u2020-02-20-96	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I asked for a word in two minutes because I would like to turn back, and I cannot pass the sentence of Ágnes Vadai, who spoke in the lead speaker's speech, who said that the extraordinary meeting was called for the sake of those in prison; so it was said literally. The congresswoman would have been much better off if she hadn't said that, and at least took the trouble to read the law that is here before us and what we are talking about today, because it is not the end of this law, but the very beginning of it that states it, I quote it literally:. The Parliament has created this law in order to enforce the interests of the victims of crime, bearing in mind the inviolable and inalienable fundamental rights of man and the sense of justice of society. So Agnes Vadai slipped again, but we're used to that. But I thought that this sentence was extremely offensive, and it must be pointed out that he was not telling the truth here either. Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, Besides, I suppose Congresswoman Andrea Varga-Damm has calmed down. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: I'm always calm.]] That is why I would like to respond to your sentence, because after my speech and my speech, you spoke to me in a very outraged way. I believe that the European Court of Justice interpretation should also be drawn to attention. There are also a number of Hungarian court judgments, to which all my fellow Members have already responded widely. The interpretation of the European Court of Justice, so as not to say that it is not inviolable, but to draw attention to what judicial judgments or explanations have been made. However, he was not upset at the fact that, in most of his speeches, in the main speaker group and opposition representatives, the co-chairman of the Helsinki Committee, who was quoted from the newsletter written by András Kádár, Kristóf [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] And this co-chair's inciting thoughts can be read to anyone. So I think you could have said a few thoughts about that, too. Thank you for your patience. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-20-97	Thank you very much, ma'am. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Congressman Lőrinc Nacs, KDNP Group.
u2020-02-20-98	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, My colleague Gyula Budai asked the rhetorical question why Jobbik did not say the name of György Magyar and why it did not address this. Well, it's very simple: it took something in return for the five minutes that the MSZP gave them a time frame, and in return, they had to offer something. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties. An uproar in Jobbik's ranks.]] As the alliance is important, it must be maintained. [[Intercoms in Jobbik's ranks: You're getting tougher! You can't be serious. The president's ringing the bell.]] It is sad to see Jobbik, once a police officer, become the Gyurcsány adjutant team, speaking in these matters. It is also sad that György Szilágyi does not recognise the result that Jobbik acknowledged earlier that the number of registered crimes decreased by half compared to 2006-2007. [[Z. Kárpát, Dániel: Violation threshold!]] ; that in 2018, no manslaughter was undetected and no of the perpetrators remained unknown; that otherwise, the number of manslaughters completed was 174 in 2006 and 59 in 2019. We're not talking about different statistical thresholds, we're talking about manslaughter, which has dropped to a third or a quarter. This is the result, honourable Members, of the strict criminal policy that the Fidesz-KDNP Group and Government have conducted. Andrea Varga-Damm talked about square meters, talked about living space, she was already visiting wellness hotels for murderers, rapists, robbers, but very interesting, not quite five or six years ago Jobbik suggested that Hungarian prisoners should be taken to Siberia. You have come from there, from that proposal to this day. Thank you very much. [[Applause in the ranks of the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-20-99	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, I give the floor to Mr László Varga, MSZP Group. Here you go.
u2020-02-20-100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would say to my fellow Member, Nacsa, that I would very much like to give you five minutes once you answer the questions normally, but there is no need, because, by the way, the time frame of the KDNP is usually stuck in the debate. So, if we are talking about questions that have been answered normally or have not been answered normally, I would like to say, Mr Secretary, that I did not say that Congressman Vejkey could not say that if he had such a position, I was only in conflict with this position and I was curious about the government's position. I think that, in relation to a question of this magnitude, whether we are going to terminate the European Convention on Human Rights, for example, I believe that a clear answer can be given to a State Secretary present, even if this is not covered by a substance. [[Dr. Pál Völner: There is no such government referral.]] You could have said something, but you didn't say anything about it again, and it's talkative to me. It's also talkative to me that you didn't answer that question. I asked you about Mr Vejkey's opinion, and you didn't say that just to establish this question. [[Dr. Pál Völner: I didn't come from a government meeting.]] I would like to put it back on the table here at the end of the debate, that many of my opposition fellow Members have spoken about the fact that such a degree of the phenomenon you call prison business could have come up with because you adopted a regulation in 2016; only you, the Fidesz faction and only the KDNP faction, supported this regulation. I told you that the head speaker of the MSZP at that time drew attention to the fact that this would result in very serious compensations, which would violate the sense of justice of society, but you accepted this on your own. Your responsibility is the situation, yet you have not apologized to the Hungarian society for a single moment, and in this regard, as at least five or six opposition colleagues have said, they have not answered a single word. Thank you, Mr. President.
u2020-02-20-101	Thank you. Dear Parliament, Once again, there will be speeches by Members after the two-minute period. I give the floor to Congressman István Bajkai, Fidesz Group.
u2020-02-20-102	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Parliament, Dear fellow Members, I would also like to return to some of the issues that have been said here today in the debate. One of the directions to this is what our fellow Member Andrea Varga-Damm said, or most of all, in this round, namely what kind of law or legislation can change what and how. Unfortunately, his speech did not show that what legislation we are talking about, or which we are discussing in the context of legislation, could not be or should be amended by Ptk. or any other similar legislation, but should be considered in the system of rules for the enforcement of sentences. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Bv law? Oh, my God.]] And that's weird because he said it himself. [[Interjection in the ranks of Fidesz: Read it! Intercoms. The president's ringing the bell.]] I find it odd that, in the age of an active lawyer, he worked a lot on behalf of the prison institutions, so I think he mentioned Ptk. in connection with the Bv laws, by the way. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: What?!]] I would add, however, that the hierarchy of legal sources must always be taken into account when we amend other legislation by means of legislation; this is just a professional question, I wanted to tell him as a mere remark, although sometimes it seems to me from the remarks and comments of my colleague that one statement follows, let us say, another comment, which corrects this, or a State Secretary's adjustment, and then, when our fellow Member finds out, he changes something again, raises another argument or raises another explanation. These debates seem a little untidy, or in this respect I think that the point really is lost. Executability, legal force, court judgments. Here, too, in this circle, I would like to make it clear to everyone who may not have a legal profession, or who has not studied this in detail before, this is a separate section on what the difference between enforceability and legal force is; such items are in university courses or exams, by the way. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea intervenes.]] I do not want this to be mixed up, because apparently this has not been said in this debate, or as if it had not been recognised, and it is particularly sad that my colleague, who is a lawyer in her profession, did not perceive this difference. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Jesus! What are you talking about? The president's ringing the bell.]] It is strange because the Hungarian legal system knows precisely that the legal force, i.e. access to final judgments, is part of a set of state acts and legislation, that by creating this, which is the creation of those laws [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: Terrible!]] as part of the state's creation is the creation of implementing rules. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: That's terrible!]] If we look at just a slightly further example, say, in private international law, the public order clause may prevent an executability, or if we look at our own example, when the Hungarian Parliament took a stand on the issue of executability and amended the law on the issue of eviction, it was also a state measure related to enforceability, so it is not understandable that these two differences were therefore not interpreted by the colleague. [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: This is insane!]] The other issue also raised is the issue of legal deposit accounts. It is also a state act, the parliamentary authority or task, as the case may be, to name, for example, the activities of lawyers which are relevant to the law on lawyers and which can be seen by lawyers. [[13.50]] When can you use a deposit when you can't? What kind of activity can lawyering even cover? In this context, I cannot interpret his comment that, by the way, on a social issue which must be regulated or regulated, why he wants to restrict this will of the State or this authority of Parliament. Although there seems to be a difference between us in philosophy [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: There is a difference in law!]] The fact that we are thinking more about the victims or the perpetrators, but in any case, I think that it is extremely important and thoughtful that one of the directions in the 2016 legislation was the inclusion of restrictions on so-called claims for compensation. So I think that the background of the legislation at that time, the parliamentary debate at that time and the purpose of that legislation cannot be interpreted or interpreted correctly, not only by mistake, but also by deliberate misinterpretation. One more little question. We all know that legal ethics rules are in conflict with unauthorized ways of acquiring a client. By default, the client goes to the lawyer and finds the lawyer with his problem. If this happens the other way around, it's a prohibited client acquisition under legal ethics rules. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: That's right! Oops!]] Thank you very much. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-20-103	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Further speeches may be made. I give the floor to the time frame available, 1 minute 25 seconds, Congresswoman Varga-Damm, Jobbik. Here you go.
u2020-02-20-104	Thank you for the floor. I'm not responding to my fellow Member of Bajkai because I've never heard such madness [[Nacsa Lawrence: Because you can't!]] that it would say that the Bv Act falls within the scope of the enforcement of final judgments in civil damages claims. That's amazing. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: That's not what he said!]] I don't even want to respond to it because it's horrible. Let's at least talk about all that nonsense between you two. [[Nacsa Lőrinc: Indemnification!]] What my colleague told me. But I'm sure my fellow Member Csaba Gyüre didn't talk about any law firm, Gyula Budai heard wrong. He was talking about the Helsinki Committee, who in 2014, look at it, because I'm sure he doesn't remember it, it was six years ago, he warned the government that this prison compensation business would take on a scale that would cost the budget. So the organization you call Soros told the government himself, but of course you didn't hear it at the time because the Fidesz law firms were happy to receive these compensations. And by the way, they won't be able to implement this law, and you know it, and it will be unconstitutional, probably either sent back by the head of state or sent back to normal control. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: Jobbik turns to the Constitutional Court with this law, therefore.]] Thank you very much.
u2020-02-20-105	Thank you, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, We now have two more minutes of speeches. I give the floor to Congressman Zoltán Kovács, Fidesz Group.
u2020-02-20-106	Mr President, Dear Parliament, László Varga asked us for a normal comment. I think that Pál Völner, in connection with the implementing law, or István Bajkai, has just been legally and factually responding to your suggestions, which do not always cover reality. It was a long time ago that Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát spoke about the violations; then perhaps what I said would have been more relevant. In the early 90s, the infringement threshold was first set after the change of regime, then a second amendment came into force around 2000, then for a decade and a half, but at the same time we can also conclude factually that the sanction system has also increased strongly. Thus, it fell on the sanctioning system of the Criminal Code, and even at the beginning there was a legal problem that the penalty in infringement proceedings was higher than the penalty in criminal proceedings. So I think that's part of the truth you just told me. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Give us time and we will respond!]] I am not talking about the fact that Jobbik has already mentioned one of my fellow Members has sent them to Siberia, sending criminals to Siberian prisons. I remember, Congressman Mirkóczki, perhaps even the President of Novák has spoken about this; instead, we are talking about you giving DK five minutes. [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Give me ten minutes of your time! A round of applause from the ruling parties.]]
u2020-02-20-107	Thank you very much, Congressman. Dear Parliament, Dear Parliament, [[Dr. Varga-Damm Andrea: You shouldn't look down on us like that! The president's ringing the bell.]] Dear Parliament, If you don't mind... [[Z. Carpathian Daniel: Give me ten minutes of your time!]] I would like to ask my fellow Members if someone else would like to speak on the agenda. [[Dr. Gyula Budai: An hour would be short! Z. Carpathian Daniel: Try it!]] If there is no candidate, the general debate is closed. I'll ask Mr. Deputy Minister if you'd like to answer. [[For signal:]] Yes, the floor is yours.
u2020-02-20-108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Thank you all for your activity in this debate. I promise not to repeat what I said earlier, because not everyone seemed to understand it, and I don't think it would work the second time, so I will ask everyone to be able to continue this debate in a calmer manner. Thank you. [[A round of applause from the benches of the governing parties.]]
u2020-02-20-109	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear Parliament, The amendments were possible until the general debate was concluded. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the discussion of our agendas today. We now have post-scheduled speeches. Mr Dániel Z. Kárpát, Jobbik Group has applied for a post-meeting speech. It's an address. I give you the floor. [[Sándor Lezsák, vice-president of the Parliament takes the chair.]]
u2020-02-20-110	Mr President, Dear House, I'm tempted to respond to the general debate that just ended, but it wouldn't be legal, so I won't do it. However, since we are going to be dealing with demographic issues, I am turning to my pro-government colleagues, who are picking up, that there is a secretary of state among you, who is willing to respond to the demographic proposals that the government has set out as its objective in a typical way in relation to some of its proposals, and some of which I have supported in the past, and I can support now. Let's start over with what we agree on. We agree that broadening the system of family support is of paramount importance in Hungary, because, if you like, we are living in a demographic emergency age, and we have the last one or two years ahead of us, when these processes can at least be slowed down in substance if they cannot be reversed. We can see that since 2010, numerous attempts have been made to widen the family support system, but they have typically been able to fall from the upper middle class in terms of efficiency. The government's recurring expectation was that the benefits coming up from the upper middle class would leak to all social groups. However, the reality shows, fellow Members, that this has not happened. Typically, I want to highlight this problem from the point of view of young Hungarians. In the midst of a housing cataclysm, the government expects many young Hungarians, family founders or family founders to be part of a demographic change, to find their prosperity in Hungary. However, some of his actions will completely eliminate the opportunities for this. Let us just think of the abolition of state support for housing savings, on which none of the very strong pro-government colleagues have been able or would not give a meaningful, measurable, professionally acceptable response in the last few hours. No Fidesz fellow Member or KDNP, who is now in the room, can respond to the solution he proposes to a Hungarian youth who wants to start his life with a partner, but who may not be able to pay for a new-built apartment or house, so he cannot use the CSOK with his full discount weight. In the case of used apartments, it would be possible to make available the benefits of the CSOK to those who purchase used property. This already affects a wider circle, this already affects a substantial circle in Hungary, but the CSOK discount is very narrowed down, with a minimum of 10-20 percent access to those who do not invest in brand new residential property or raise a rural door in the middle of nowhere, creating luxury conditions. The fact is that the small part of Hungarian youth is able to get a home of their own, for the majority it remains that the extraordinarily low wage level in Hungary should generate the extraordinarily high housing costs. I turn to my shrinking number of pro-government colleagues, because the courage of the soul has not risen since then to respond to what I have to say, the fact is that none of them have responded yet to their plans for rent in Budapest. These prices range from 120 to 160 thousand forints, plus rent, while a Hungarian youth should spend 50 percent of his income on the statistical average, and 70 percent of his income on the housing costs alone. [[14.00]] Moreover, it is not realistic to expect these people to have a meaningful family life, and according to the latest statistics, there are well over 100,000 people who are forced to live in the parents' house when they are over 30; not because they live in a mama hotel, but because they simply do not have financial opportunities to start their own lives, even though they might have a mate. Maybe there's a family thing, a child thing. You have a dog's duty to give these answers, because the Hungarian future cannot be a barcode in statistical and budgetary planning. We should find common solutions to this in a way that is above the parties. What hurts me is clearly that the government is retortically committed to addressing demographic issues, but we can't find an indicator that this government has been able to improve in the last two to three or four years. This was the only fertility rate, but unfortunately it also started to deteriorate in the last year. I wish I didn't. What we see is that there are no trends in which change would be revealed. That is why I propose that the government collect its courage in a way that is above the parties, by setting a demographic national minimum, and that we work together to develop answers for young Hungarians, but most importantly, [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] to ensure the future of Hungary. Thank you for the opportunity. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-20-111	Thank you very much, Mr Dániel Z. Carpathian. After the agenda, MEP Lajos Rig, from the Jobbik Group, applied for a post-scheduled speech:. What is the plan for Tapolca Hospital? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman.
u2020-02-20-112	Thank you very much for the floor. Mr President, Ladies and gentlemen, After the prison business law, we'd go to a similar business. This is the health business, which can be a major source of business for the government as well. And it may be linked to my speech on Monday, in which I discussed the circumstances of the closure of the Doban psychiatric institution. It's a bit like him, and it's a lot like this process. At the time, I mentioned that in a newspaper, a government intention was ventilated, that several hospitals or departments would be terminated, and that the institution of the psychiatric institution in Dobah was named in it, and it turned out that there was a political response to my first question, that nothing, this is a hysterical act that the congressman did, nothing would happen there; and it turned out that they would, however, terminate that institution, that patients would be removed from it. I asked Mr. Secretary of State the same question in the case of Tapolca Hospital, because in this paper and in this material the hospital in Tapolca and the active beds there were named. Interestingly, I was given the same tactical and political answer that nothing was happening, it was political hysterical. If we compare these two cases and take into account the procedures, we have to say that, unfortunately, as the Secretary of State lied about the Doba psychiatric institution, we can assume that there is a similar case here. If we look at the trend and process that has developed in previous years, we must say that since 2010 Fidesz has been ruling, it is no longer possible to point back to the mistakes of the health system, the previous socialist government! Socialist governments also had a lot of mistakes, but I ask my fellow Members: what have you done in the last ten years to ensure that this system is stable and operational? Nothing. If we've only been looking at doctors and nurses from Tapolca Hospital for the last year and narrow it down to the last six months, I have to tell you that the head of cardiologist is gone, he's gone, he's a psychiatrist, he's gone now the gynecologist, he's two diabetics, he's gone. You think this is a restructuring or a conscious downsizing of the hospital? And what everyone in this room knows, at least, I hope, is that the maintenance period for the EU proposal will expire this year. A lot of people working in and doing public appearances in the city have contacted me in recent years with the fact that Lajos, what will happen to this hospital if the maintenance period expires. Is it true that in the same way that they want to privatize other health institutions, or do they want to do chronic and rehabilitation care, even the 15 medical beds that they managed to give back to the hospital in 2018 would be removed? My fellow Members certainly do not know that this more than a hundred-year-old hospital could have been built by putting their own assets and their spare time in order to preserve the health of those living there. We have a 28-page government material that discusses the fate of health institutions that will change later, and there are a lot of hints in it that do aim at restructuring the structure and cutting down hospital beds. I'd like to introduce one thing to you. The document states that it is essential to reduce the rates and capacities of active inpatient care and, at the same time, to expand the scope of activity of primary care and outpatient care. The second part is completely agreeable, because if something is reduced, something needs to be expanded. Just for the last ten years, and once again, during the Fidesz administration, neither the basic supply nor the capacity for outpatient care, nor the supply of equipment has been extended. We're talking about things that build on each other, one without the other. Unfortunately, the GPs have grown old, the number of GPs is very large, so the greatest damage to the transformation of the health structure will be areas and settlements such as, say, Tapolca. And unfortunately, what I need to see in the debate culture in Parliament over the past four or five years is that what we have seen here in the field of law enforcement is, unfortunately, the same in the context of the health debate. Let me live with a metaphor. So arguing with you, dear Members of the Fidesz, is, unfortunately, like playing chess with a beater. First in the first step, he knocks down all the puppets, in the second step he picks on the chessboard, and in the third step he starts to exult that he won. [[The President shall indicate the expiry of the time limit by jogging the bell.]] That's no way to argue on a subject. Thank you for listening. [[Applause in the benches of Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-20-113	Thank you very much, Congressman Rig. Lóránt Keresztes, leader of the LMP, representative of the LMP, applied for a post-meeting speech with the title "Effective drinking water for all."
u2020-02-20-114	Thank you very much for this opportunity, Mr President. Dear Parliament, I can confirm what Mr Rig said here at the end of his speech on the subject of the government debate. I would like to talk about the relationship between a serious problem that has existed for a very, very long time and a relatively recent direction of government communication. Not long ago, Viktor Orbán recognised that climate change is a serious challenge and that we should tackle the various environmental challenges, environmental-destructive phenomena and processes. Compared to what the government says, this obviously cannot be seen as a credible change of direction in any way. What Viktor Orbán did after 2010 can be summarised as follows. As a first step, the entire institutional system of environmental protection in Hungary was destroyed. In the present situation, the most fundamental environmental aspects are not applied to governance and are not fully performed. You cannot ensure the protection of water bases, you do not perform any such tasks in the appropriate capacity. The protection of water resources has therefore not been resolved in Hungary today. What is an extremely important and serious problem is that they cannot ensure or take action to ensure healthy drinking water in the medium term. And it must be said that, in this situation, one of the main causes of this problem is Minister László Palkovics, in particular, he does not perform his task in any way. I cannot even list how many times I have tried here in Parliament, either in the form of a written question or in any other way, to send this problem to the Minister through the press, and he will appoint Mr Tamás Schanda as Secretary of State to answer, with whom it is well felt that he really has no idea about the policy area, in which he should be given answers. The government simply does not reach the point of realising that, in addition to the environmental protection system, the water network, the entire water system, is actually on the verge of bankruptcy and collapse. Despite this, they refuse to acknowledge that not only opposition representatives speak very, very often in all directions, but the Hungarian Water Utilities Association, which is the umbrella organization of a sectoral association of large water utility companies, draws attention each year to a professional analysis that the entire water sector is now heading specifically towards collapse. From all other directions, from a professional perspective, from the direction of employees' representatives, from the direction of the municipalities responsible for maintenance, but, more importantly, from the public, reports and signals are getting louder and louder that the water supply is simply in a terrible state. Annually, water companies are increasing their expenditure and, of course, revenues are insufficient. People working in the water sector are working in an unworthy situation for ridiculous salaries, and more and more people are leaving the sector out of necessity, with a huge shortage of workers already. [[14.10]] By 2022, the number of professionals in the water sector will be 10 per cent and 25 per cent by 2027. The employees of Alföldvíz, one of the largest Hungarian water service companies, have already demonstrated several times and drew attention to their situation, and the company itself was simply on the brink of collapse because of the poor legal and regulatory environment. Not long ago, the National Water Facility Sectoral Cooperation, which is an association of employees' representatives, submitted a petition to Prime Minister Viktor Orbán. It wasn't that long ago, this February. They also tried to draw attention, and in their professional material they made it clear that the operation of the most important public service was not guaranteed. We know from the statistics that the state of the network is getting worse and whatever the government says, and as much as Secretary of State Tamás Schanda refers only to former governments, which are in fact very poorly functioning, but since 2010, the situation has clearly deteriorated and is deteriorating year after year. Today, the sector's losses are around 30 percent, so 30 percent of the drinking water produced is simply drained because of bad plumbing and the proportion of water systems with an appropriate rating has fallen below 20 percent. At present, no matter what forum I try to ask, the government has no idea how to secure in the medium term the thousands of billion forints needed to ensure the most basic service, i.e. drinking water supply and waste water disposal, in the future. The most serious problem in this context, in the context of the increasingly widespread water quality problems, is that this is a very, very serious health risk, and will mean a serious disease in very, very many people, and this is obviously a factor, a tragedy that cannot be fortified. My question is also to the members of the Government and to my fellow members of the Government who take responsibility for putting the water sector in such a tragic position and are willing to finally face this problem and finally to take some action to ensure that the most important public service, healthy drinking water supply and the protection of drinking water bases can be achieved in Hungary. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-20-115	Thank you, Mr. Crusade Leader. Mr Andrea Varga-Damm, Jobbik Group, also spoke after the agenda with the title of the anniversary of our government. You have the floor, Congresswoman.
u2020-02-20-116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear House, Ladies and gentlemen, Today, 153 years ago, on 20 February 1867 the Andrássy government took office, which was the first Hungarian government to be responsible after 1848. That government was in office until November 14, 1871, all members of the government were members of the Deák Party, alongside the Prime Minister of Gyula Andrássy Sr. Gyula Andrássy was also Minister of Defence. The members of the government were József Eötvös Minister of Religion and Public Education, Béla Wenckheim Minister of Interior, Menyhért Lónyay Minister of Finance, Minister of Justice Boldizsár Horvát, Imre Mikó Minister of Public Works and Transport, György Festetics Minister of Kingship, and István Gorove Minister of Agriculture, Industry and Trade. The government was in office until 14 November 1871 because Gyula Andrássy Sr. was appointed as the joint Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Monarchy, as a result of which the government's term of office was automatically terminated. In 1867, after the settlement, Ferenc Deák asked Gyula Ferenc József Andrássy to form a government. I suppose you all know that Gyula Andrássy Sr. was sentenced to death in 1850, because of his activities in the revolution of 1848 and the freedom fight of 48-49, and was hanged in his absence. Compared to this, between 1850 and 1867 he reached the point of becoming Prime Minister of the new first responsible Hungarian government in 1867, doing the incredibly diligent and very serious diplomatic work with the Monarchy. It is characteristic of the current Hungarian government, the Orbán government, that no commemoration was organised for the 150th anniversary of the settlement three years ago. Although a professional organization held conferences, organised a back-view, the Government of Hungary, responsible for commemorating the anniversaries of such high-profile historical events, did nothing. In the year of the 150th anniversary, János Áder said that that period could be exemplary for any Hungarian government, because it was clearly ascension and western citizenship that marked the period after 1867. So the head of state praised him, and the government ignored him. I could ask why the Orbán government didn't remember the settlement. The answer is very simple: because this government does not know the word "compromise," this government does not know the dialogue, and this government is only willing to communicate with society and leading politicians through national insults. Of course, we all know that it's just about the money, the many billions spent with the consultation. Of course, there is no doubt that there is still much discussion about the benefits of reconciliation, but it is a fact that all the laws of April that were passed during the revolution have been brought to legal force by reconciliation, and 10 out of the 12 points read on 15 March 1848 have been achieved by this compromise. Indeed, the National Guard and the National Bank have been left out, and we could say that the success has not been complete, but we should know that in that historic environment, in the post-Bach period after 48-49 and even during the absolutistic rule leading up to 1867 there was no easy way for Hungarian politicians to acquire any autonomy against power. The point is, we're a sovereign state. According to the Austrians, the compromise was the first chapter of the Monarchy's weeping, but it is also true that Hungary was able to serve the result of Hungarian tourism, as millions of tourists from the feudal social conditions, from the rooted and hopeless social situation have come to see the beautiful wonders that our ancestors made in that era. That is why I thought, in my speech after the agenda, I would remember the government that was formed today 153 years ago, and without which, today, our society would not be able to present these miracles. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it for Jobbik.]]
u2020-02-20-117	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Dear Parliament, After the agenda, MEP László Varga, MSZP Group has applied for a post-municipal address:. Are you going to take me away from the municipalities again? It's an address. You have the floor, Congressman. [[14.20]]
u2020-02-20-118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, On 13 October, following the surprising results of local elections for Viktor Orbán, when Fidesz-KDNP was defeated in a large part of the country, a surprising statement was made from the Prime Minister's mouth: we are ready to cooperate. Obviously, he meant the newly elected opposition-led municipalities. For a few weeks, this caused optimism in these local governments, waiting in this regard. Then the news came, the bill came, and it became increasingly apparent that the government was planning a measure of a vendetta against the municipalities. We remember when, in connection with the financing of local public transport, the law on local business tax was transformed by the government in a hurry, in fact forcing local authorities to pay the local business tax first to Community transport, making it a little uncertain in the medium and long term that local authorities would receive state aid for this. There was no clear answer to that in relation to any more of my questions. This year is obviously planned, but what will become of 2021 has not been revealed by any State Secretary's reply. Then the theaters came. If a local government today wants state aid for the operation of its theatre, it must enter into an agreement with the government, either on terms that it allows a say in the selection of the director of the theatre. Obviously, in the budgetary situation in which a local government is present today, it is obliged to give this say. Since then, a proposal has been made to take kindergartens away from the municipalities, which are well placed in the proximity of people to local authorities, although they may need more funding from the state. I wonder what's gonna happen to this. However, the most outrageous proposal has recently been a reform of the local business tax system on the part of local authorities. László Parragh also spoke about this on the columns of the Hungarian Nation. By the way, this is the proposal of the Competitiveness Council towards the government, which is apparently backed by many of their actors, their politicians. The conversion of local business tax in this way could mean a loss of some 80-100 billion. Local business tax is a very important source of income for municipalities. This is not something that the municipalities are living up to, specifically and dominantly, for the purposes of urban management, and in Hungarian they would take this HUF 80-100 billion away from the people. This would give you less money for pottying, building playgrounds, maintaining or maintaining kindergartens, and I could tell you more. I'd miss this money directly from people's everyday lives. It is not clear what you would like to do, what the majority of governments would like to do. It is not clear that if this 80-100 billion falls from the revenue of the municipalities, how they will replace it, how they would give this resource to the municipalities. It has also been noted that they are not giving it away, but are initiating another austerity towards the municipalities. Yesterday, however, there was an unexpected turn of events, and I ask for the cooperation and cooperation of all my fellow Members. András Cser-Palkovics, the pro-government mayor of Székesfehérvár, commented on this proposal in such a way that this is unacceptable. So, a mayor, respected by you, who is political in your colours, has advocated staying in the present form of a local business tax in order to provide the local authorities with this source of income and its scope of manoeuvre. If the objectives that the Competitiveness Council has raised, or those that I would like to serve in relation to research and development, are to be found in the central budget, I propose this. And I propose to all of us, to the entire Parliament, that we do not accept a proposal that reduces municipal revenues in terms of local business tax. In this connection, we will have more proposals here in Parliament. Thank you very much.
u2020-02-20-119	Thank you very much, Congressman László Varga. Dear Parliament, We have reached the end of the speeches after the agenda. I would like to inform you that the next Spring Session will take place on 24 February 2020. Thank you for your work, a restful afternoon and a good evening. The meeting's closed.
